ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-009-901.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 /house prints 328, 329 and 330/ I'd like to ask Minister Kupka to speak with his contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-009-901.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to imagine in detail what we are monitoring and what the provisions of the Single Environmental Opinion should be met. The main objective is to speed up and make the construction process more effective, with JES, a unified environmental position, enabling public interest in environmental protection as a whole to be implemented in this single position. The proposal therefore constitutes procedural integration in the environmental protection sector and introduces a single environmental position in the form of a binding opinion, for all projects authorised under the construction law, whether they are projects requiring the EIA, i.e. the process of assessing the environmental impact of the construction or other projects. The point is that we can really do without the builder having to go around different locations, individual government bodies concerned, in order to be able to do this in a coordinated way with one institution, with one office. JES will therefore be issued to the place of administrative tasks contained in nine different environmental laws, which, under the applicable and specified legislation, mostly take the form of a binding opinion. The competent authority issuing the single environmental opinion will be the regional authority in defined cases, in other cases the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. For several specific types of projects, the Ministry of the Environment will be responsible for issuing the JES, with the fact that administrative actions issued by nature conservation authorities in specially protected areas, European sites and bird areas will not be integrated into the Single Environmental Opinion. In these most valuable areas of nature conservation, the decision of the competent nature conservation authority, i.e. the Nature Conservation and Landscape Agency of the Czech Republic, regional authorities or national parks management, will be necessary for the purpose of authorising the intention. In this Decision, agricultural land and forest protection issues will be newly included in the national parks. The competent authority issuing the single environmental opinion shall assess the application and the accompanying documentation and shall, where appropriate, request a technical basis from the administrative authority competent under another legislation. This will typically be the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. On the basis of an assessment of the application and of any comments, the competent authority shall then issue a single opinion with defined requirements, which are, inter alia, the conditions for authorising the intention that, as with the general other binding opinions, the fiction of the binding consent opinion will apply. A uniform environmental opinion will have a limited period of validity, i.e. five years, with the possibility of extending validity - at the request of the applicant, this opinion may also be amended. For EIA projects, a single environmental opinion will also be issued, either within the EIA process or after the EIA opinion has been delivered. In any event, however, even here, the single environmental opinion will replace the administrative acts issued by the institutions concerned so far. This, too, can be seen in the simplification and merger of works in favour of the builder. JES will therefore be the basis for a decision to authorise a project under the construction law or for a so-called follow-up procedure within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, even if it is subject to an authorisation under a non-construction law. As regards the projects authorised under the Construction Act, the JES will be the basis for all these projects, including the so-called reserved buildings, for which the Specialised and Appellate Building Office is responsible. The main positive of the introduction of a single environmental opinion from the point of view of the builder is the concentration of administrative tasks needed for the approval of the intention. Thus, it will practically mean that in one place, the applicant builder will obtain all relevant environmental protection permits. Instead of several administrative acts often issued by more than one environmental authority, only one administrative act will be issued, in the form of a binding opinion. It will be purely up to the builder whether to request the issue of a single environmental opinion directly by himself before the conduct of proceedings for the authorisation of a project under the construction law, or whether to submit a comprehensive request to the construction office and in such a case the construction office responsible for the purpose of the said single environmental opinion. Communication between the builder, the construction office and the competent administrative authority for the issue of a single environmental opinion will be carried out primarily electronically through the Constructioner Portal. Here, in a practical form, the simplification of the unification of these acts will take place by means of the possibility that all the process can be completed through the monitoring of the case within the Construction Man's Portal and, of course, also within the Construction Man's Portal. At the same time, a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Single Environmental Opinion Act, the so-called Amendment Act, is presented. It regulates in individual parts the related adjustments made in other laws, such as the law on geological works, the law on conservation of nature and landscape, the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund, the forest law, the law on environmental impact assessment, the water law, the law on burial, the law on air protection, the law on the prevention of major accidents, and the fact that the effectiveness of all these specific changes, as well as the bill on the single environmental opinion itself, would be from 1 July 2023. [[12.50 hours]] So much for the brief presentation of both the basic law and the relevant amendment law, which will introduce the implementation of the single environmental position into individual specialized laws. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-009-901.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now I would like to ask the rapporteur Hofmann to put him on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-009-901.u4	Hello. Mr President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, the aim of the Government's bill is to establish a so-called uniform environmental position, for all purposes permitted under the construction law. It will take the form of a binding opinion and replace the administrative acts currently contained in nine different environmental laws. The Authority issuing the Single Environmental Opinion will be the Regional Authority in defined cases, in other cases the municipal authorities with extended scope. For some specific projects, the Ministry of Environment will be responsible for issuing a single environmental opinion. Administrative acts issued by nature conservation authorities in specially protected territories, European major sites and bird areas will not be integrated into the Single Environmental Opinion. Communication between the builder, the construction office and the competent authority for the issue of a single environmental opinion will be carried out primarily electronically through the Builter's Portal. That's the news report on point 19. And point 20. Point 20 is an accompanying regulation to the current Government Bill on the Single Environmental Opinion. In direct connection with the legislation contained in the draft Single Environmental Opinion Act, several other laws are being amended, namely nine in the environmental protection section and four related ones, all amendments being unified in a separate amendment law in the interests of clarity and clarity of the rule of law. The content of the law was explained in the previous paragraph. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-009-901.u5	I thank you and just remind you, because we are in a somewhat unusual situation, that we are in a merged general debate. Vice-President Dostálová came forward with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-009-901.u6	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I'm -- I guess that's what I'm supposed to be -- but I'm gonna be a little bit longer today. I will, of course, continue to appeal to all of us so that, in this difficult time, we do not embark on any unconfirmed recipes, because it is absolutely essential and unfortunate for me that we are trying to change the construction law and the laws in question only one year after a comprehensive recodification of building law was prepared, a standard for which the Czech Republic and its residents have been waiting for more than thirty years without having a chance to justify their existence and functionality. I would understand if we came up with an amendment to the new construction law at a time when we actually verified some malfunction or problem in practice. But we didn't even give that standard a chance, and basically just the political struggle decided that the standard that really won a significant award as the law of the year, where not only the professional public voted, but also the lay public, the law got 68 percent of the votes, really a lot, so we're trying to dismantle this law now. We replace some elements with other elements, but, of course, I've already said that in the first term, it's a mosaic that's composed of certain parts and it's very dangerous to replace one piece in order to achieve that whole. Well, she's basically turned the words I'm saying a little bit into the truth, because a new building bill has opened up a imaginary Pandořin's box that's gonna be hard to deal with. It should also be recalled that a comprehensive change in building law has been prepared for more than five years, has been widely discussed and has become a red rag for the opposition in the past period, but of course this phenomenon is understandable because success, of course, is not forgiving to the opponents, and regardless of the benefits, the quality that has actually been documented by many professional associations. But it is also fair to admit that the only person to whom it is in the finals, but I only call it in the finals, because otherwise we worked intensively with the Union of Cities and Municipalities and for the Union of Cities and Municipalities it was completely alpha - omega of the new building law integration of the organs concerned, or bodies that protect public interests. And now we're in a situation, because the novel you have on your desk today, which you can look at, so not only does it destruct the institutional form so that people can really know that they're going to take place within the time limits they have, but that they're going to be people and representative. So none of this, fellow citizens - because you're all already texting me on my social networks, Messenger and WhatsApp, so I know you're following us closely - so unfortunately neither of these things will be. The officials will not be represented any further and it may be that the signs "for the disease" will again be closed at the small construction offices, because - I have to do a little bit to correct here, although I do not like to do it, but the Minister, who, when asked about this, replied that he would be able to arrive an official from another office - will not do so. This really cannot work in the delegated model, so if the officials get sick, there are really only two in the office and they get caught up in some viral disease, so the builders will have bad luck. Likewise, the enforcement of deadlines was, of course, one... alpha - omega complete recodification of building law to ensure that when the construction office doesn't work until some time, the superior office takes over. Given that we are returning to the current state and form of the construction offices, as we know today, this cannot be guaranteed either. Similarly, it will be very difficult to guarantee a uniform methodological environment, which of course the builders do not like, because they get into it - if I give a specific example for example: someone builds such lifts for surfers, like on a pond, and of course they install it all over the Czech Republic, so it is really with a smile that in every region it is permitted differently, at every construction office. And that's what a uniform methodological environment is all about. Of course, we do not want to make the same mistake, because for me it is almost enough to squeeze tears, because if we, as opposition, do not approach this constructively today, it will happen that every other government will go through the same destruction model, and that is not really a good signal for any builder. So I am very glad that we are succeeding in finding agreement in recent times or agreement with the coalition on the need to prepare a comprehensive amendment, that we will cooperate on it across the political spectrum, and we will not really give cause for any other government to destruct and return things to the same track in some way. We must realise that we are now going to prepare an amendment to the construction law and we are trying to - and believe me, we are trying constructively, we are working on a broad basis - and if there has to be a change before it is a functional and meaningful modification, which, above all, leads to a real solution today, namely to improve and strengthen territorial planning and, on the other hand, to accelerate and simplify building authorisation. They're connected containers. If the cities and municipalities can be supported in the area of planning competence, then there will be less pressure from the authorities in the area of building permits. And that will happen as it should be, only by a technical process that controls compliance with laws and standards. I believe that this principle can be passed on to the future form of building law, and in that case we are ready to support it as an opposition. Let us put citizens and our country before politics and political marketing as such, the content of the amendment before superficial packaging. What the Czech Republic and its people need now is stability. Unfortunately, this proposal resigns from the rights of citizens who desperately ask the state to respect the deadlines in the field of construction proceedings. Here again, I remind you of the good old saying that if a citizen doesn't meet any time limit against the state, he'll be fined immediately. When a state fails to meet a citizen, nothing happens, and that is what we really need to focus on. [[13.00 hours]] Likewise, the construction process should be a smooth process, but it will be difficult to ensure if the officials continue to be non-representable. And here again the appeal to the Minister, to both ministers who are very intense about this, to look for the way that three are certain certainty, but only two, there can actually come to be that when there is a woman, a man, there is some child care and some viral disease, so the office will actually be very weakened and you will have investors or builders waiting in the finals. I am very sorry that there has not been a broad discussion at the time of the preparation of this amendment, as is correctly attacked in the media by many actors. The preparation took place behind closed doors of the Ministry of Regional Development, the working groups did not meet with him, the Minister's grémium was not called or another meeting. The Office itself, without cooperation with others, and unfortunately clearly without proper assignment and coordination, has created a proposal which, if we have a hint of common sense, we must now complete, or an impotent parody will arise, which we will soon have to change again. In this context, I would like to remind you that the Government of the Czech Republic and its ministers have been repeatedly invited to discuss and discuss with various expert groups, but this has not happened until the very end. The media tells us that those who wanted to help didn't even get an answer. But to be fair, I have to say that the negotiations started a few days before the government's meeting, but these negotiations now seem very intense, so I believe that if we have a common will here in the House, we will be able to make it to a successful end in the final. It is sad for me, of course, to hear from the mouths of those directly affected by this amendment, i.e. from the mouth of experts, that they spent almost a year trying to find a way to cooperate with the Ministry for Regional Development, or directly with the Minister, in preparing a new form of construction law, i.e. from the perspective of future development of the Czech Republic, absolutely fundamental legislation, but those meetings were very few, and if they happened, they were purely formalistic without the possibility of real discussion and interest in finding solutions. I would like to stress that there has also been an adequate settlement of comments in the legislative process, which cannot be described as a wasted opportunity and lost time. Most of the professional public has been excluded from the preparation process all this time and the result is a loud dissent from all sides. Minister Bartoš, although the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development tried to be very helpful, held a seminar, unfortunately he had to leave at the time because of the State Security Council, if I remember correctly, so the seminar did not come out as it should, because of course many representatives of the professional public who wanted to discuss it, but unfortunately there was not much to talk about. It is very important that we actually respond to the things that are in that space as obvious problems. It is not possible to stick your head in the sand even over time or over the representativeness of the officials themselves. We should also stop at the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government of the Czech Republic. I remember very well how the negotiation process was contested in approving the recodification last year, and it really was a recodification with a large R, because what you have on your desk today, please, is just an amendment to the current state. This means, if it goes as it is now prepared, it is only the 26th amendment of the current unsatisfactory state. The principles of recodification need to be restored to the proposal. So let us pour some pure wine, because what has now happened at the Legislative Council of the Government is not entirely to be called a real discussion at the Legislative Council of the Government. The amendment to the construction law - the one on your desk today - literally went through the Government's Legislative Council as a failed repetent of the graduation exam, which the commission is running with scratched ears just to avoid having to see it again. And, of course, there is a great deal of closeness, the party proximity of ministers, so I understand, of course, the Prime Minister's President of the Legislative Council, that he was trying to help, but with such fundamental laws, I think it's more of a shame, because if the proposal went wrong, we will actually correct, modify and amend it in the future. I would still perhaps like to comment on the fact that we have linked the debate with a single environmental position. It's the connection that makes a lot of sense here, because we've all actually been sucking in the atmosphere of the building bill, and we've all been saying, "Please, just eliminate the stamps. That's a horror movie before you even get a building permit. And we're on our way to invent a super stamp. That means we're inventing a stamp that either you get it first, and then you have a ticket to the building office. I am so glad and I really would like to thank the ministers that at the last meeting, when we talked about it, that we all feel a little bit as strangely as we do and that if, as Minister Kupka said in his introductory words, it is that even a uniform environmental position will be given by the municipal authority with extended scope, where there are other authorities concerned, then please, let us look for a way, when everyone is in one office - and I am not talking about the construction office, I am talking about the municipality's office with extended scope as a whole - so that it integrates where the opinions are already in place, it means that there is not two at one office in the finals. This is not the way in the right direction for me, and it would certainly be a good point in the future to integrate the authorities where they are, that is, in municipalities with extended scope. I do not know whether, as part of the revision of the Government's programming declaration, a change can also be expected in the field of construction legislation, but it would be understandable, because if we look at the proposal now under discussion, we must state that it is completely detached from what the Government itself promised. It is in direct conflict and will not lead to the fulfilment of the intended and declared objective of recodification, in particular to simplify and accelerate the approval of buildings. In this respect, I would like to draw your attention to the impact assessment of the regulation of the amendment proposal, which has been prepared directly by the Ministry of Regional Development. What can we read in it? For example, the proposal presented today achieves the lowest efficiency of the performance of the building agenda, the lowest possibility of sharing personnel capacity, lower possibilities of uniform methodological management, low controlability, enforcement, lower transparency of the use of government funds from the point of view of their particular use, the lowest elimination of the number of underlying acts that are re-examined or sued, the smallest reduction of the average time of the authorisation process and the lowest macroeconomic pro-growth effect with a positive impact on state budget revenues, because it does not allow process integration, although procedural integration is the government parties declared by the modification of building authorisation. And, of course, the so-called impact assessment analysis further declares that it would be desirable to reduce the number of underlying acts so as to prevent obstructions. This is from RIA, the so-called RIA, or the impact assessment of a specific bill, and I think it should be for the Ministry to process it itself, with a certain alarm that something is not quite right when their own analysis, which they have given them, notes such serious shortcomings of this material. What is more important than admitting that it is necessary to sit at one table, and since it has left the ministerial servants' computers, try to redo so that both the lay and the professional public can actually find themselves in it and make it at least the imaginary small step towards improving it. We may not be able to achieve the overall recodification because we have broken down the institutional model, but certainly if we try to integrate the institutions concerned, it is really a step towards the fact that there is something to follow up in the future, and maybe - and I acknowledge this - there may not even be a need for institutional reform if it turns out that the integration of the institutions concerned was actually the most painful place in the whole building authorisation. The government promised a substantial acceleration of building procedures in cooperation with self-government and, while maintaining the protection of other interests, rapid, transparent, digital and citizen-near building procedures, predictable building procedures adapted to different types of buildings and balancing public and private interests, public involvement and its familiarisation with investor intentions, without delaying the proceedings. None of what I just said, but if the resemblance is approved, the current resemblance, as it is on your desk today, will happen, quite the opposite. And that's not a political, but a purely factual remark, that's unfortunately the facts. [[13.10 hours]] As often sounds from professional circles, it would be better to leave the current unsatisfactory state than to accept the proposed change. I must say that this sentence has completely stopped me in the media, because if we are actually comparing this novel with what does not work today, it is a very pathetic picture. But as I was saying at the beginning, this isn't an obstruction, it's not a long confrontation of former performances, because believe me, when I looked at the tapes from the last election period at speeches, whether it's Minister Kupka or Minister Bartoš, you'd be having a little fun, if I read it here, you'd have to think that I'm saying it to the current state, but it's a bit of a repeat of history. But I'm far away, nothing like that is going to happen. We are ready to support such changes and also actively participate in them, which will ensure genuine integration in a single management and change in the area of spatial planning, which will eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic burdens on municipalities and strengthen their powers while strengthening the commitment to defining the intentions of strategic importance by the state. We will achieve the real procedural integration of all the acts necessary to permit the construction into one joint management including an environmental assessment of the project so as to reduce red tape and fulfill the "one management, one stamp, one review" theory. Let us maintain the original scope of the urban and downstream construction regulation and the possibility of laying down specific requirements for construction in the planning documentation, by way of derogation from the national decree. This applies mainly to large cities in the Czech Republic, because not every building space in the Czech Republic is like a copier. We must enable large cities to respond especially in the field of housing construction to those specifics, and therefore it is very important that they are allowed to derogate from national regulations, whether in the form of their own construction regulations, as Prague has, and to allow other cities to do so. Furthermore, it is necessary to save the possibility of making changes to the territorial plans by means of an accelerated procedure. Let us change the adjustment of the uniform standard of land planning documentation so that the municipalities do not experience an unbearable bureaucratic burden, consisting in the need to make changes to all existing territorial plans. Here I would briefly stop at this: it must be realized that the approval of the zoning plan is not a matter of months, but it is a matter of years. If we throw them overboard, all these cities, and she's gonna have to start over, we're gonna have really new land plans in the next three to five years. And I think that the road is in the wrong direction because all the authorities have done a great deal of work on this, and it is necessary to be able to bridge this time when the new construction law is being implemented so that it doesn't affect them. Basically, I have now listed a basic overview of the changes necessary and necessary. If we make progress in them, we can believe in a proposal that is consensual, supported by a real majority in the Chamber of Deputies and a acknowledged professional public. Here I would like to go back a little bit into history, because remember that most 106 Members have approved the new building bill. And believe me, if there's no consensus here with the opposition - but I believe it will - then I think you might not even reach this number. So again, I appeal that we actually work together as coalitions and opposition to the building bill as such, which should be very apolitical. Given what I have said in the area of both content criticism and procedural criticism, I will propose a return - and perhaps it will also sound from others, if it joins it - to return the proposal to the government back to work. I know that this is not going to pass, of course, but it is a shame, because it would really be worth working in the picture so that we can go through this amendment very quickly. But I'm aware that it's not going to work. So I would like to ask for what we ourselves have granted the opposition then, which means that the time for committee discussions will be extended to 100 days. I believe that if we extend this deadline between the first and second readings, then the next reading will go smoothly, because if we agree on a comprehensive amendment, of course there is no reason here in any way - now I do not want to say construct, but simply remind again and again the benefits of the new building law. So, Mr Vice-President, I suggest either a return to redo the government, if it doesn't pass, extend the deadline between first and second reading to 100 days. Of course, I would like to borrow some of the words very often, as I admitted, that I also read the tapes, so I would like to borrow some of the words. And now I'm looking at the Minister, but she's pretty words, Minister, don't worry. So, actually, the minister here... I'd like to remind you, although we were able to push the motion more than a year ago and not extend the deadline, we were open to discussing the deadline for 100 days. [[Extend?]] In view of the fact that the current proposal deserves significant work-up and recasting, I believe that the Minister will also support the proposal for an extension of the hearing. I'm just pointing out that I had a covid at first reading, so he represented me - that's why the male family, just so you don't be surprised - so Minister Havlíček represented me then. So anyway, I'm gonna borrow to not just leave Minister Bartoš in it, so I'm gonna borrow beautiful words from Minister Kupka, who says it wasn't that long ago, at this point he said that the deadline should be sufficient, because it's a really complicated material, a complicated law. This would be correct and would really allow for unnecessary errors to be avoided in the form of legislative errors. So let's take time now to work out and work out. Let us take on a commitment to sit at one table and ideally until 99 and 1 day come up with a proposal under which we will all sign, including expert groups, and which will bring a good consensual proposal. So what I consider essential is that we have to be clear about what was the content of the entire recodification of building law. It was four planes, four planes of complete recodification of building law. The first was the institutional plane. I know there's no way we can break through this part of the recodification today. On the other hand, I must remind you once again that, as it is proposed - although I must commend here that the government has made the last-minute change and that at least the construction authorities will be financing - because, again, the construction procedure is the performance of the state administration in a delegated capacity. It is simply the competence of the State that it has delegated. And for the transfer of authority, the state pays a considerable amount of money, roughly four billion a year. And I am glad that at least the government did it, that it put in such a performance model of à la matriques, because I consider it very important that really at the construction offices, if we have them so fragmented throughout the Republic, there are really highly competent people who will be able to advise their builders and builders. The second plane of recodification was the process plane. Here I have to say quite frankly that it is more or less preserved with a few exceptions, but this amendment also repeals all the existing ten types of authorisation processes, including the two-stage nature of the territorial and construction proceedings and their replacement by the sole authorisation procedure in the intention. It's only a small but. The novel comes with three kinds of buildings. When we had two types of buildings, we had so-called civilian ordinary buildings and then reserved buildings that were permitted by the Specialized and Appellate Building Office in the new construction law. They were really the most important constructions of the state. The amendment, this amendment you have, gives another series of project projects under the designation of a major construction. These are buildings that should be allowed by the Regional Authority in the first instance, so we will have three first stages in the proceedings - one will be in the municipalities, the other will be on the edge and the third will be at the Specialised and Appellate Building Office in the position of the state. In terms of content simplification, there have also been no major changes. The new building law sought to simplify the project documentation so that only the data necessary for the authorisation were really needed for the stages of the proceedings. And as I said in the last parliamentary term, it is no longer possible to stick to the fact that you need documentation to build a family house as a nuclear power plant. It must have some kind of hierarchy and, of course, the constructions have some different demands. [[13.20 hours]] As far as unification and modernisation of construction requirements are concerned, so here for me absolutely incomprehensiblely, the urban building regulations have just fallen out, which has been reacted very sharply by the major cities that have issued the City Deal because it does not agree significantly, but as we talked with the ministers, I believe this will be corrected and that the building regulations will return to play in at least the form of complex amendments. This has not changed as regards the use of investor planning contracts in the territory for the legal enforcement of the interests of self-government towards builders and investors in the territory and the related increase in the legal certainty of investors in the territory and ensuring the consent of self-government. After that, the mayors of the municipalities really cried out that they needed agreements with investors in the territory, and if it was not treated by legislation, that they were actually moving on the edge of legality. Here we have been trying to help the mayors to keep their feet fixed so they don't get into any trouble. The question is, and given that we've broken down the institutional model here, we've basically broken down the only possible defense against so-called systemic bias. I know you're going to tell me that this is a very small percentage in those cases, but this small percentage of everything is doing big cities, because, of course, there are the biggest interests, and it is the planning contracts that I fear, as it is, and by actually allowing the cities to continue to allow themselves and at the same time to approve planning contracts, that they are simply the hubs for certain legal agencies to, of course, start the fight with this project in the form of systemic bias. The Minister himself knows very well how to decide on systemic bias - the Ministry of Regional Development must decide on this, which he will entrust to another office and this is how we prolong our approval period unnecessarily. But I'm gonna stop moaning here because I'm aware that the institutional resemblance to being a pure civil service isn't gonna pass, so we're gonna have to face these things. It is interesting here that we do not want to do anything about it, rather we try to say that it is not possible when we have the delegation, so the courts can not judge this way, but the courts judge this way, and it is interesting that in Slovakia, for example, in the same model as the Czech Republic, municipalities themselves cannot allow projects precisely for these reasons to prevent systemic bias, because as judges, when we dealt with it - we dealt with it very intensively - they say that they made a mistake in 2000, that never building permits, building procedures should have been delegated, because it is from the logic of the matter of the conflict of two universes, when the community is trying to do its best to itself, and of course it can give priority to its interests at the expense of other builders. The next point that was actually within the scope of the recodification is participation and concentration of proceedings, i.e. a single authorisation procedure, can be attended by all those concerned, including environmental associations, but objections, and this is very important, can apply only once and at a time when this is possible for the first time. I really must and will always stand up for anyone who continues this line - it is simply not possible for anyone to enter at any stage of the proceedings. And now I apologize for the familiality, or whatever I say, for the folklore. If the hamster isn't there at the beginning, how come it's halfway through the construction approval process? It's just not possible. Or some rare plant, so I don't put an animal in my mouth. That's not possible, and I think everyone's supposed to say that at the beginning. And if it is there, then something must be done about it, because nature conservation is of course a great public interest and we should all protect it, but it is not possible to follow the possible obstruction of those things, because the Minister of Transport certainly knows how difficult it is that in one minute twelve a proposal will be made without any content and then it will be resolved. It's just that these are really things that really delay those strategic buildings, and it costs a lot of money to keep it going. Reform of appeals - unfortunately, by abolishing the integration of the institutions concerned in the amendment that we have, and all of them being thrown back into binding opinions or statements, it is precisely that we have tried to recodify separate reviews of binding opinions so that there is indeed one coordinated integrated opinion of the building office, so far it is not there, but I believe that we will be able to resolve this precisely in a comprehensive amendment. What hasn't changed and what's left in the novel is that the ping-pong is canceled between levels. This is also a very significant acceleration, and I believe that all builders will feel it, because it can no longer happen that when the decision against a particular project or construction is appealed, the appeal authority does not return the first instance, but it has to allow it. This means that the real ping-pong between the authorities, when they returned it for formal errors due to mere personnel inadequacies, will break down. Another very important element, and here we have to thank you, is digitization. The Minister for Regional Development, of course, pushes digitalization very hard ahead - I will hold all the thumbs I have, both on my hands and on my feet, in order to get it started in announced terms. It's not easy. Of course, we have the Office for Competition Protection, we have a lot of participants here, public contracts that can, of course, object to selection procedures and so on. What I think is very important to talk about is that within the setting, as you have it on your desk today, by keeping it all in separate municipalities, as it will ensure that there will actually be high-speed Internet, so that data can actually flow through small municipalities, so that there is simply internet coverage, that really municipalities have equipment at the same time and at the same time, whether it will compete with MMR and then lend it to individual municipalities, or how will this be done in the finals? Because having an idea that 690 construction offices will be preserved here, and you can coordinate 690 tender procedures, no one can, so it just doesn't work, so you need to find some mechanism to really equip the municipalities and make digitalization work as such in the finals. Another important moment also in the framework of recodification, but also in the current amendment is the judicial review. There is an acceleration and deformification of the judicial review, equalisation of the position of the builder with the applicant, concentration of the objections, penalty for the lodging of bullying actions and the prior hearing of actions with a suspended effect. The third level of recodification was the integration of the authorities concerned, or authorities, which protect public interests. The integration of the authorities concerned in the concept of full recodification meant the abolition of almost all binding opinions, i.e. separate round stamps against which it can be independently examined. Of course, these are processes, because imagine that these days you have, like, 46 round stamps like this before you get a building permit, and each stamp is self-reviewable, so when you reach the forty-sixth, someone will give you a review of the third, and this is actually how we keep spinning in circles. Therefore, it is very important to integrate the stamps of those authorities concerned authorising or protecting public interests into one stamp, which could integrate the municipality with extended scope, the region and, of course, the Special and Appeal Building Office. It would also have quite an interesting link, because if integration were in municipalities with extended scope, and now I'm only talking about the authorities concerned, nothing else, only public interests bodies, where they are now, that is, they are already in municipalities with extended scope, so naturally appeal against them would be the region. The region will, of course, have integrated authorities concerned and would naturally appeal against them be the Special and Building Appeal Office. Then he'll be one of the resorts against him, but that's up to the political decision it's gonna be. So I think it would create such an interesting line of thinking that this could be taken in the finals, and it would certainly help everyone significantly. And the fourth pillar of overall recodification is spatial planning. So far, we have an amendment - but here I have to admit, even in the overall recodification, it was only a piece of improvement and that we are really going to have a big debate on spatial planning as such, because the municipalities want very much, especially those large municipalities long for a separate scope in the area of spatial planning. But it is, of course, very difficult and it takes time and space and discussion to actually be able to say in the finals how there will be superiority, inferiority, community, region, two communities side by side, two regions side by side and so on, so there are a number of moments there. [[13.30 hours]] It is also important to say that what is within a separate remit is also fully paid for by a particular municipality or city. That's why, when we were thinking about recoding a separate area of territorial planning, we logically got into the fact that the big cities said, "Yeah, we want it right now, we're gonna pay for it all. But the small communities said, well, it's out of the question for us, we're not ready for it, we don't have officials. This means that we also need the money to support spatial planning at all, because the municipality approves its own zoning plan, but, of course, the performances are then delegated and helping the state. We didn't want to get into the fact that if it wasn't premeditated, so that it wouldn't happen that small communities would stop doing spatial planning, because it would be to the detriment of the whole architecture within the Czech Republic and even landscape creation as such. Of course, the objective of spatial planning should be to simplify and modernise construction requirements even further, to inspire itself with Prague's construction regulations, because I think that colleagues from Prague have been doing this for a really long time and they know how to do it and, on the contrary, other major cities such as Ostrava and Brno can be inspired by them. As far as the amendment as such is concerned, the urban planning has been modified by the fact that cities are in fundamental conflict with it, and - I have already mentioned this - it has issued the so-called City Deal, which means that they are asking the government to re-evaluate and look at the things that the cities do not agree with, to give the clearly defined points that they are looking at. At the beginning, the Minister said in the introductory words that territorial development policy is returning to the amendment as a strategic tool for regional planning at state level. No offense, the territorial development policy worked even during our government. But what is striking to me, and what I really don't understand, is that the new construction law, which also takes over the amendment, is the so-called National Territorial Plan. Because it is really about the state being able to simply answer how to plant large strategic transport structures, cores, energy and so on. Now imagine that in the bill's proposal, although territorial development policy - that is such a descriptive exercise, you would have to see what it is - approved by the government, but the National Territorial Development Plan does not approve of the government - that is what concerns me - that is only approved by the Ministry of Local Development. Of course, there's going to be an inter-resorative commentary procedure and so on, but it's just the government's approval moment at such a crucial... It is as if the municipalities have taken the authority of the representatives to approve the zoning plan. I just can't imagine the government not giving an opinion on this. What interests me is that even construction closures are being issued by the Ministry of Regional Development itself. Of course, I think the Minister's person is so strong and trustworthy, but I'm a colleague of transport or industry, so I'd be very cautious here. No offense to the Minister, but a closer shirt than a coat, as they say. So there is definitely a need to look at this, because I think that the National Territorial Plan should actually approve the government as the highest executive role in the Czech Republic. As far as the construction law is being prepared by us, I have already mentioned here that it was actually consistent with expert groups, many citizens have acknowledged it, but it was not in line with the mayor as such, although I must say that the Union of Towns and Municipalities has given an opinion on the fact that their fundamental requirement is the integration of the institutions concerned. I am sorry that this cannot be said by an amendment to the construction law, because that is what everyone, even the cities, are really protesting against, that is to say, representatives of the authorities. Perhaps I should introduce you to a letter that everyone dissatisfied sent to the Prime Minister. The letter left 6. 10. and just for the sake of illustration, the government began to approve a new building law or amendment of a new building law 12. 10. That means there's hardly any room for negotiations here. But, as I said, that in a way is past, because the negotiations really started at the Ministry of Regional Development. The Platform for Healthy Building Law is in session, if I say well the name of the platform. But maybe for a reminder. It's a shame this didn't work out before that we could save ourselves a lot of time and trouble. Just a quote: "Dear Prime Minister, we are addressing you as representatives of a wide platform of professional chambers, associations of associations and large cities representing tens of thousands of experts and enterprises active in planning, authorising and implementing buildings in all sectors. We appeal to you to overcome the deep crisis in the area of construction, which may be caused by the current form of the amendment to the construction law, and to make its changes. We are ready to introduce you to proposals on which we have found a broad factual and technical consensus. For almost a year we have been trying to find a way to cooperate with the Ministry of Regional Development, or with the Minister for Regional Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš, on the preparation of a new form of construction law, i.e. in terms of future development of the Czech Republic, absolutely essential legislation. The few meetings that took place were purely formalistic, without the possibility of real discussion and interest in finding solutions. There has also been an adequate settlement of comments in the legislative process, which cannot be described as a missed opportunity. Unfortunately, we must state that most of the professional public has been excluded from the preparation process throughout this period. The draft amendment sent to the Legislative Council confirmed our concerns. Even the Government's Legislative Council itself expressed fundamental reservations during the debate on the amendment. It is also quite clear that the proposed proposal is in sharp conflict with the government's own programming statement and will not lead to the fulfilment of the intended and declared goal of simplifying and accelerating the approval of buildings. It is worth mentioning the impact assessment of the regulation of the novel, the so-called RIA, produced by the Ministry for Regional Development itself." We've already said that here, so I'm not gonna quote here again. "This assessment shows a fundamental contradiction of the amendment to the Government's programming declaration, which sets out the aim of a fundamental acceleration in the construction process. This objective of the current proposal is substantially worse than the legislation in force approved last year. It even means deterioration against the current state and the original form of building law before recodification. Our long-term objective is to achieve a consensual proposal. Unfortunately, we have not yet found a partner in this effort. We therefore consider it necessary to draw your personal attention to the fundamental shortcomings of the current version of the amendment before the proposal is included on the Government's agenda. We are aware that the amendment of the new building law is urgent, and we are therefore prepared to submit constructive proposals for amendments to the amendment to address the most fundamental shortcomings. In general, these are changes in the regulation on the authorisation of buildings that ensure genuine integration in single management, changes in the area of spatial planning, which will remove unnecessary bureaucratic burdens on municipalities and strengthen their powers while strengthening the commitment to defining the strategic importance of the State." In particular, these proposals are described in the Annex to this letter. "The lower signatures are asking you to meet as soon as possible so that we have an opportunity to explain our concerns and suggestions to you." Signed President of the Chamber of Commerce, President of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, President of the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, President of the Czech Chamber of Architects, Director of the Association of Developers of the Czech Republic, representative of City Dealu Mr Boháč, conceptual and planning institutions of Prague, Brno, Ostrava, Pilsen, Liberec, Zlin and Karlovy Vary, also president of the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions. The total of seven points were presented to the Prime Minister by these representatives. The first point is to anchor for the mixed model of construction offices in municipalities and regions the actual procedural integration of all the acts necessary to permit the construction in one joint management including an environmental assessment of the intention in order to reduce bureaucracy and fulfil the problem of one management, one stamp, one review. This solution must be adapted to the resulting structure of the building offices and to the regulation of the competences of the authorities issuing the underlying opinions. Secondly, maintain the original scope of the urban and downstream construction regulation and the possibility of laying down specific requirements for construction in the land planning documentation, by way of derogation from the national decree. Maintain Prague's construction regulations. Maintain the possibility of making changes to the territorial plans by means of an accelerated procedure. Change the adjustment of the uniform planning documentation standard. Maintain the status of builder as a party to legal proceedings. Strengthen the strategic dimension of the territorial planning documentation. Those are the points that I've basically expressed myself on. How do we do that? This can be achieved by integrating at the level of the municipality with extended scope, namely all the public interests that are already at the ORP. [[13.40 hours]] Now, in conclusion, I would very much like some positive information, because I don't think it's important to always criticize. But it was the 9th meeting that took place. 12. on the ground of the Ministry of Regional Development with the participation of both Minister Kupka and Minister Bartoš, this is evaluated by the actors involved, so unfortunately the opposition was not invited. But, of course, now I'm drawing on how those professional players are assessing it. This is a significant shift in the debate on the future of building law in the Czech Republic. This is how we see it as an exit from Friday's 9th meeting. 12. Platforms for Healthy Building Law at the Ministry of Regional Development. The present ministers, Mr Bartoš and Mr Kupka, have confirmed their efforts to adopt solutions that will enable the integration of the public authorities concerned, while maintaining the network of construction offices according to the requirements of the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic and the association of local authorities. I just want to finish by saying that I'm gonna give you one more, and I'm really gonna quit. But I consider it necessary for the citizen's opinion to be heard here, so that you can get a comprehensive picture. Wednesday 14. 12. at 11.48 p.m., so just to let us know that this is really up-to-date information: "Dear Mrs Dostálová, for your information and further work, I would like to add the information below. The second winter of waiting for a statement from the building office has already begun. The Authority has requested a supplement twice, which took us about two months, but we spend the remaining time since 9 August 2021 waiting for the Office's reply. After complaining of inaction, he has now decided to bully us with senseless demands of geological and hydrogeological exploration in a hundred years old house. I have already informed various institutions and authorities, including MMR, which has construction offices in Georgia, without a result. In the context that the government is constantly repeating how it does everything for maximum energy savings and to protect citizens from dramatic price increases, I asked for systemic measures to activate the construction authorities to work at least within the set deadlines. In view of the critical situation, builders expect authorities to function faster than they set deadlines. When I visit the Bureau, they always show me stacks of pending requests saying I'm in line. Clearly, one office blocks dozens, maybe hundreds of builders. I wonder how many such offices there are in the Czech Republic, how many houses could be renovated or built with heating, how much we could have already saved energy and also the finances that the government supports citizens for whom energy is unbearably expensive." So much for quoting a particular builder's citizen. And I would like to conclude by asking really much for one table, an imaginary one table, to prepare a comprehensive amendment in cooperation, and to really help all our builders, whether small or large. And I'm sure the way to help isn't about producing superstamps, but instead we're going to integrate the stamps where it can be integrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-009-901.u7	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. The rapporteur králíček is now in the debate, but I just point out that we have a fixed electoral point at 13.45. If the performance is not enough, but I will load the apologies, and Mr. králíček can decide whether or not to call a two-minute break. We have another enrollment there, Minister Kupka, Minister Bartoš. So I will add my apologies: Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes from 12.53 for health reasons, Mr Jiří Hájek from 16 to 17.15 for health reasons, Tomio Okamura from 12 to 13 hours for work reasons, Sadovskýý Petr from 13.45 for work reasons. And since there are really two minutes left, and the rapporteur knows that he wouldn't fit in with his performance, I'm declaring a two-minute recess, but we'll meet here at 13.45, very soon to discuss the electoral point. Just for the record, then, according to the agreement of the Gremia, a break should be announced within 15 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-009-901.u8	We have 13.45 hours. So I am still formally interrupting the merged debate on paragraphs 19, 20 and 21. Initiating discussion of the point of the vote, i.e.
