ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 49th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 48 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Monday, December 5th of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. I propose that we appoint a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková's minutes verifier. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 1 85 Members and Members, for 83, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Barbora Urbanová, and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková, as verifiers of the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I hereby declare that, by the beginning of the meeting, the whole of the meeting, the whole of the period - the Navrátil of the Jiří Jana - the Milan of the Karel day - the Krutáková of the Bělica Josef - the Jaroslav of the working Novák - the Nacher of the Patrik Jaroslav - the Ryba of the Wenzl day - the Olšáková of the Kocmanová Michaela, the Golasowská of the Ivo Marek, the full of the Věra day, the full of the Alena Schillerová, the Kettner of the working Heller, the full of the Pavel Svoboda, the Bělor of the Kobza Jiří, the Šimon of the Vondrák Igor, the full of the Dvořák Eliška, the full of the Fischerová Hájek, the full of the Pavel day, the full of the Okamura Salvetr, the full of the Karel Sládeček, the Mr. Members of the government apologize... I'm sorry, yes, Mr. Ryba cancels his apology. The members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr all day - foreign trip, Balaš Vladimír until 14.30 - working reasons, Baxa Martin whole day - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš whole day - foreign trip, Blažek Pavel whole day - foreign trip, Černochová Jana whole day - foreign trip, Kupka Martin whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk whole day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít whole day - foreign trip, Stanjura Zbyněk whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal whole day - working reasons and Vlastimil Válek apologizes from 9.00 to 13.00 for working reasons. Another excuse is Mr Radim Fiala's apology throughout the day for health reasons. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 49th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to extend the approved agenda. And now I have applications here with priority rights. Mr Aleš Juchelka, with priority rights, will be the first to speak, representing President Schillerová, who is duly excused. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you very much for meeting me here at this extraordinary House meeting on social issues. I confess that I am the author of this extraordinary meeting, especially after what has happened in these past Houses of Days, especially in the opposition window. We also discussed some of the parts of the Committee on Social Policy, when last week there was also a resolution within the Committee on Social Policy on the current situation at the Labour Offices, mainly that was discussed there, and then, of course, the systemization. However, the show here has three points. The first is an increase in parental contribution under state social support, which we have been proposing here for several months. We have the amendment to the State Social Support Act since 3 June. And, of course, I'll get to the details in a little while. The second point is the current situation at the employment offices, which is actually gaining intensity and is becoming critical especially in some regions of the Czech Republic. And the third point, so it concerns the payment decree in social services, which is crucial and I would say only at this point critical because there is an increase in the hourly rate of care for field services by CZK 20 without valorizing the contribution to care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please move your conversations to the lobby, and if possible, keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. It really is not pleasant to talk into any noise, and I thank all colleagues who will respect what happens behind this counter not only for me but also for other, following speakers. About a third of people sent inflation and expensive energy at or just above the poverty line. In recent months, the number of families needed is increasing and, on the contrary, the number of benefits paid is only increasing incredibly slowly. Over the past year, 5% of households have fallen below the poverty line, a total of about 15 percent of all households that are at its border. The government calls on people in need not to be afraid to ask for social benefits, and although the number of families needed is skyrocketing, the number of aids paid is increasing only slowly. And we've been pointing that out for a long time. We see this mainly in the housing allowance that he is actually asking for within the population of people who are sinking into this poverty, in fact, less and less people, because we see it in the doses paid. Some 1.3 million poor people live in the Czech Republic. I refer to the research that was presented last month, called Invisible 2022, and mostly people from low-income households or singles and also of course seniors, but what is very important is also families with children. Of course, they are afraid to sign up for benefits because they are either not familiar with them or discouraged by who works in offices. I will not only be critical here, I would of course also like to commend the government for constantly trying to pay various benefits in some way, except that the benefits, such as living and existential minimum, are linked to eight and constantly, because we are increasing additional and additional benefits, normative housing costs, as I say, living and existential minimum, child allowances, all of this is reflected in other and other benefits and in other social assistance and the agenda that will end up at the office of work, is already so great that it is no wonder that the authorities are slowly collapsing. But we'll get to that later. Another study has come up with very surprising findings that people in the rent rather than people in their own housing are getting into energy poverty; 410,000 people who are on rent really fall on the poverty line compared to those who live in their own housing, there are 130,000 of them, and we know that the housing allowance of course partially helps both of these groups here. Of course, there is a bigger problem in larger cities than in the countryside. There the normative housing costs, which have been adjusted, really appealed - and we have appealed to this several times, and I personally through my interpelations - to change the normative housing costs in order to change the population in the individual municipalities, to recalculate it, because Teplice, Karviná and Olomouc were at the limit of 100,000 and 50,000 inhabitants, and when it got below this limit thanks to the Czech Statistical Office, all of a sudden the housing costs remained the same in the municipalities, but these poor people fell into the housing allowance in the lower amounts, which was really very, very dangerous for some. There are about one million people in energy poverty, I'd say. And I can say that they're at risk, except for singles and seniors and multiple families. Multiple families who have three or more children, and at the moment the endangered families are at the limit of 37,000 of their income, those families who raise, for example, one child, in which one parent receives the parental allowance. We propose to increase it for one simple reason. Here, in the last few days, we have seen that this government cannot control inflation in any way. We already have more than 16 percent of it jumped out at this point, and of course young families with children need to be dealt with. When we look at our proposal, we face the price increase of all commodities that we can imagine in the normal life of the family. We see it from food to sanitary aids, cosmetics, fuel, we see it, of course, in the energy that grows, in sanitary aids, we see it in children's goods, in cosmetics for children, in children's diapers, for example. Simply and simply common household equipment and, of course, the things that are needed to raise newborns, toddlers, simply children under four years of age, are really facing an extreme price increase. Of course, families with young children are greatly affected by this increase. Usually, as we know, one of the parents, the other one receives a contribution, a so-called parent, a parental contribution, and they really when they put it together and they're responsible and they invest in their own housing, so they really get on the poverty line, but they really don't really get into existential problems, because they don't know how to cover the costs anymore, and even though we have various tools of state social aid, even though we have benefits in material distress, extra immediate help, so it's not enough, because it's just those active families that work, parents, when one takes care of the child, so they're really very, very vulnerable. We here, with this proposed measure, are trying to match the level of inflation even though the government has given a negative opinion on our proposal for a parental contribution precisely because we are increasing it by 33 percent, and inflation at the moment we have 15%, so I simply ask this coalition to use it as a means of saying that it has been here for several weeks, that it will increase the parental contribution, that it will not let those people fall, that it will not shorten the parental contribution - and that part of the coalition says so - so that we can simply use our proposal as a means of making it possible to do so by the end of this year, or that we can increase the parent's parent, for example, from the middle of the next year. Some parties to the government coalition hear of it, some of them are resistant to it, and they say that it is necessary to shorten the parental contribution. Yeah, let's be fair, they're not saying it's at the three hundred thousandth level, but it's only in the shortening of that parent's day. I strongly disagree with this, and even the Minister has been heard several times that there is no way that the train will go over to be shortened both financially and by the deadlines of the parental contribution, and I hope that this is true, because even though we have a four-year-old, and some of the government coalition thinks it is this way, I would say, above all, compared to other countries in the European Union, we still have it very flexible and each parent can choose and, according to his family strategy, tell himself how long the parental contribution will be drawn. There were proposals from the government coalition, and we could say that here. In pirát it was specifically 15% increase of parenting to CZK 345,000. [[9.20 hours]] I know there was also an amendment prepared here, or an amendment to this law, from my colleague Lucie Šafránková to 360 000. I wonder if there will simply be an increase in parental contribution in the future, as a part of the government coalition is announced, or if there is simply no train and we remain and we will remain on this level in the future. Here in this amendment, we propose the valorisation of the parental contribution, according to the increase in consumer prices, as is the case with old-age pensions, for example, for the calculation of the Czech Statistical Office by at least 5%. The aim of the proposal is to respond flexibly and promptly to rising prices, without the need to submit and legislatively approve separate legislation separately. This will simplify the procedure thanks to this valorisation and ensure the possibility of responding flexibly to the actual expenditure of households with young children. Parental contributions are distributed into a three-year, four-year-old, but also, of course, a smaller selection of the parent. At this point, we say, let's take this here, and we ask the government coalition to use its amendments here to make use of this carrier of the amendment on state social support, because I think there's nothing faster than to live up to its words through this amendment right here. The estimated increase in expenditure to the state budget is, if it increases the child from 300 to 400,000 and from 450 to 600,000 to about CZK 10 billion. If we accept the proposals of some parties to the government coalition, it may be only one half. Here it must be said that families with children are really, I would say, most at risk because it is de facto the future of every nation that is trying to support children, to support students, to support all those who will, of course, contribute from the point of view of the social system, for example, to the ongoing pension system. It is extremely important that we do not neglect the support of families to any extent. If we have healthy, complete, best of course multiple families here, we can solve a number of problems, including, of course, pension reform. We know that we are doing quite well, but still the reproductive number, which is going to be 2.1, so it does not reach any state in the European Union. We have 1.72 children per mother, and I believe that if we do not support family policy, the number will fall. I believe that a number of media and media draw attention to the way the energy crisis enters families, senior households, those who mainly live alone, as this energy and inflationary crisis enters single-family families, which are really very responsible. We see it on individual stories that I'm not going to read here, but I'm sure we all have them in our e-mails, and I'm sure we're all reading the media when, for example, because there's a delay in different doses, so people are talking about rent. That is why, at this point, I am moving on to the second point, and I ask you very much, of course, to approve the agenda for this meeting, thanks to the fact that we want to address the current situation at the employment offices. We have been pointing out for several months that there is such an upsurge in the work offices that this government has drawn on them that it can be really fatal and crisis for their officials, especially if we know that around 400 of them are missing from the employment offices. Since the beginning of the crisis and Russia's aggression in Ukraine, it has been a humanitarian benefit that pays off. It was a solidarity contribution to accommodation, which also goes through the employment authorities and which was, I believe, prolonged for the next three months by this government, yesterday. It was a 5,000-dollar baby allowance. There are, of course, other x-doses that are constantly changing their parameters, because this government is unable to cut off the cause of inflation and rising energy prices. We are constantly catching up as a hamster run by increasing other and other doses simply and simply by increasing inflation. I pointed out several times that if we were to address the cause, we would not have to go to those gradual further and further increases in living and existential minimums, normative housing costs, so we would not have to increase the allowances for children and so on, because these people would not have such cost of living. However, something is constantly changing there, at those jobs offices, we are still giving them new and new agendas, and it really looks like we have thousands of applications that aren't processed, thousands of applications when benefits haven't been paid. Benefits are not reliable, which means that poor people without the help of the state, for example, do not have housing costs. These people started to be risky tenants for the owner of the apartment. As I say, some have already expelled some families from the rent. God forbid, if the landlords find out that, for example, he has a single house or wants to stay with more children, they simply often back off and don't want them because they're just afraid they won't have the energy to pay the rent, so they won't rent her the apartment. According to the Labour Office, the problem is that this institution is also at the edge of the interest of politicians. At this point, we see this on very specific examples when we opened this topic on the Social Policy Committee last week. The Minister was duly excused, and it was de facto that we called on a resolution across the political spectrum, whether it was coalition or opposition, all voted unanimously, where in that resolution we called on the Minister to start doing something about the financing of the Labour Office and the salaries of local officials. Secondly, to really focus on those benefits that are paid late. At this point, we have a statistically total of 14,750 pending applications based on the length of processing. It is so that over 30 days - and let's say that the labor authorities have 30 days to handle your request - there are some 4,800, 4,500 over 60 days. But what is very critical is that some applications, and a total of 5,500, have not been settled within three months, that they just lie there for more than 90 days, and you have no decision in your hands, let alone pay this benefit. These are the numbers that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs gave us, which we requested from the Social Policy Committee last week. [[9.30 hours]] What are the most endangered regions where it is most held up? When I start from the end, it's Plzeň, where it's really also critical, then Central Bohemia. But the most critical is really Prague. No wonder, because Prague lacks long-term, long-term administrative services to handle individual doses and to make individual decisions. According to the trade unions, they are employees - and the employee's salary at the Labour Office is in the ninth grade. And the number I'm about to say is really crazy. And I don't blame those people that they really don't want to work there even after the media, some politicians generally put in mind that an official is almost a dirty word, so I'm really not surprised that no one wants to work there, because at the first step, the one who takes up the Labour Office gets CZK 21,710 gross. This was confirmed by the head of the Labor Office. In fact, at this point, we see mainly here in these critical regions that hearts work there. Thank you very much to all of the employment offices for being able to still work in the conditions in which they work, because it has already been said on the Committee on Social Policy that aggression is rising. Aggressiveness of people who demand payouts when we have 15,000, that is, 15,000 families, 15,000 individual fates delayed, that they are vulgarly cursed that when they answer the phone, they still hear the same sentences: When do I get the dose that is delayed? And we're not talking about people who haven't worked their whole lives or who have the label of being the ones who are sucking up the social system. We talk about those who, for example, work or have a handicapped partner or child at home. Because it is not only the payment of benefits in material distress or the payment of state social support, such as housing contributions or housing supplements, but also care contributions, for example, or I know that some of them have delayed the payment of benefits in foster care. Why is that? Why is that? We asked about this, of course, on the Social Policy Committee. It is not only the underfinancing of labour offices, but also, of course, the underdividing of their capacity, but also, of course, the government here, which, on the one hand, is making excuses for the President's veto, which has slowed down the financing of labour offices, and there was nothing to pay for individual benefits. And I strongly disagree with this here, because every government is responsible for the timing of its legislative process. This means that they have to count in the legislation when they put forward draft laws, even in the short term, in the '90s, in a legislative emergency, which we have become accustomed to here in a little bit, that the President's veto can simply come and delay the whole thing, and they have to count on it in the legislative process. Unfortunately, this has not happened here and it is also one of the reasons why social benefits are being paid late. When I talk about the agenda, this practical manual for workers and social workers, called We're going to tame energy in the home, landed on the desks of the Labor Offices. [[shows the material mentioned]] We'll tame the energy in the house. That's what I kept saying and criticized here that there'd even be so-called energy advisors at the employment offices. Well, we already have this manual here at the moment. It's a manual that serves social workers who come into individual clients' homes, and it tells them how to reduce the temperature of the household, how to save money, if they shower for how long, here in the manual it says that it's more economical when they put a pin in the sink, when they wash dishes, they say how to wash dishes and wash laundry in the dishwashers, warn clients that they should be 50 to 60 degrees in the boiler, but sometimes up to 60 degrees in order to destroy bacteria, and all of this in the electric kettle, how much water they should cook, and that they should give when they cook water for potatoes, so that they have to put a lid on it. I think it's really starting to be a little bit of a mockery to all those who work at these offices, because if we look at this manual, which has 32 pages that somebody has to study, someone has to pay for the fact that these people are advising these people here, and we even have some really professional things here, for example, New Green Savings, where a social worker and a official of the employment office should, for example, advise on how they can, when they look into the apartment and have to, like, socially weak help, so how can they exchange windows or how they can warm up their facade. [[shows the written material in plenary]] I was pointing out that this is simply and simply nonsense, because social workers can't do that. This belongs to the Ministry of the Environment, which has experts on how to save energy, how to heat it, how to calculate what windows to replace, how to heat the roof, and certainly cannot be done by a social worker. And this is just the way I would say the last icing on the cake in the agenda, which even the reporters of the office keep pointing out, because the agenda is getting more and more robust. Contentually, but also, of course, with the new individual doses. And, of course, I don't want to criticize it here. But I want to stand up for those people who are at the employment offices, and I say that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is responsible, that the Minister is responsible, and that I am terribly sorry, and I am sorry that the Ministry and Minister Jurečka are throwing it at the Directorate of the Employment Office, the Director General, and that I would say, in a media sense, that I have broken a little bit of a staff over him, at least in the fact that he could be heard that he may somehow be reduced by his rewards. At the same time, everyone knows very well that the first and last jobs are being done in order for the agendas to work, including the Director-General. But I understand that, of course, because - I'm not going to say one Ostrava proverb here, but I'm terribly sorry, because instead of dealing with it, there was some kind of media firefight between the labour authorities and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[The speaker smiled]] So just about the current situation at the employment offices, which isn't a big deal. And the last thing that concerns the payment decree in social services, where the hour of care is increased for 20 crowns, so there we said a lot of different things about it. In my opinion, it is not possible to raise the payment decree in field services without valorising the care allowance, in general, to make systemic changes, perhaps in the care allowance, because at this time of inflation and energy crisis, it is critical for some families who take care of their partner. And I'm not gonna say any more of my own words about it, but I'm gonna read a letter that I'm gonna hand over to the minister who came to my e-mail yesterday. And I will ask you to listen carefully, because the writer describes it quite well: My husband is 67 years old. He is fully disabled, suffering from severe CNS neurodegenerative disease. It's immobile, it only moves in a wheelchair. His condition gradually deteriorates, even though he struggles with the disease. I had to quit my job as a nurse and became a caring person. [[The speaker is turning to the chair because of the noise.]] Thank you. All it takes is a gesture, Madam President, and it's quiet now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u5	Ambassador, it's as quiet as a church.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u6	[[He's laughing.]] Okay. I had to leave my job as a nurse and become a caring person. Since then, we have only been living out of our husband's pension and the husband receives a care allowance. He's completely dependent on the care of another person, he needs full day care. It's repeated in the medical reports. However, he was not granted the highest care allowance because he allegedly did not meet the required number of basic needs that he was unable to meet. He missed one point. The number of basic needs already defined is completely beyond reality, with such a sick person it is a complex disability, which completely changes and limits his life and life of his family. Therefore, it cannot be assessed on a single basis. Now let me write down why I turned to you. The regular valorisation of my husband's care allowance is what my husband needs most. We are currently unable to cover his needs, whether it concerns transport, therapy, medical travel, clinics or rehabilitation activities. We only pay twice as much for drugs as we did a short time ago. We can no longer talk about meeting social needs such as culture, social contacts or meeting people. We can't afford cinema, theater, social events, because everything costs money, including transportation, tickets, etc. The husband is thus fundamentally limited to his rights at large, unable to meet the needs that are so absurdly and separately defined by the law. Several times we politely asked the Labour Office to propose changes in social care, we suggested what needs to be changed. We explained that there must also be a valorisation of the care allowance, because otherwise, despite the valorisation of the spouse's pension income, the income is actually falling. Indeed, we must increasingly cover the increasing cost of care from his pension. During the years of his illness, we gradually exhausted our reserves. There's nothing left to take from. This year we succumbed to the lure of ministers and Mr. Fiala, who kept saying they wouldn't let anyone fall. We had to overcome shame and humiliation, we asked for a housing allowance. I don't even want to comment on the job meeting. It took us six months to get the allowance we were entitled to because the housing costs were always assessed after documenting the documents for the past quarter. We have been paying significantly higher housing costs for several months, yet we have received the same low amount since April of the following months, the last time in October of this year, because it was calculated by the officials on the basis of the costs for the second quarter. We have appealed that their calculations are not based on current data, that they use old data that doesn't apply for a long time. In vain. The law would have to change. We suggested that the authorities point out that they propose a change to a law that is slow, does not respond to changes and leaves people in a difficult situation for months. We have achieved nothing but a sense of bitterness and further humiliation. We wrote an e-mail to Minister Jurečka, in which we mentioned everything described above. We explained our situation to him. We talked about the Bureau's meeting and stressed what needs to be changed. We also wrote that it is not enough to valorize only pensions, that it is also necessary to regularly valorize care contributions. Our cost of care is rising sharply in connection with high inflation, increasing everything and energy prices. Minister Jurečka replied with a friendly e-mail full of understanding. We got a polite and empathetic answer. I appreciate that, but the justification given by the Minister cannot be accepted. Arguing a severely ill person with budget options, i.e. by not valorizing the care allowance now because there is no money, that is cynical. Especially when I see money being distributed elsewhere, how they raise their own salaries, how money is added differently to state employees and so on. In the second e-mail, the Minister, or the person who wrote him, even argues with the help of Ukraine, which implies, among other things, that it is not possible to increase support for the sick. He even wrote that the last government only dealt with covid. What can I say? And to keep in mind, he confirmed that the authorities are proceeding correctly according to the law. That's all. And now we're beginning to listen to how pensioners should adapt, how solidarity should be, working in two or three jobs at the same time. Of all the income, we've spent our entire lives paying high taxes. For years, my husband, like the vast majority of current pensioners, contributed to the budget of the state from which pensions, hospitals, schools, elderly homes and so on. Maybe we don't have to listen to that kind of bullshit. Now it's supposed to be a state of solidarity with him and with all the pensioners. What is happening around us is hurting the husband very much and making his illness worse. And I've worked in health care all my life, helped, cared for the sick and the disabled, which my husband now belongs to. That's why I'm asking for help for us. I think we have the right to demand it. As my outrage shows, we haven't dealt with anything, no one will change anything. The contributions will not increase, there is no money for the disabled. People will continue to receive housing contributions under bad law that respond to their rising costs with a few months' delay, at a time when we hear daily news, what is getting more expensive, what is inflation and what awaits us next year. My husband worked his whole life in a helping profession, caring for sick and disabled people, visiting them throughout the Republic. He trained, lectured, held meetings, helped. Now he needs help and he's not getting it. What bitterness and irony of life! I'm gonna have to go back to work after the New Year, because otherwise we won't have the money to cover all the expenses. My husband stays alone because we don't have the money to pay for the extended social services. He asked me if he was going to die to solve our situation. All elderly, sick, and disabled people urgently need help, it must be effective and quick. It's too late now. We're in a difficult situation. I take the liberty of believing that you will support help for sick, disabled and old fellow citizens. Depending on how the state treats them, we can easily know what its cultural level is, what the level of parliament is, whether MEPs really represent us, or only care about coalitions, opposition, functions, cheap mountain recreation, world trips, income, compensation, positions in supervisory and other councils. This is written by a writer who has just gotten into trouble not only with the delay of benefits in material distress, benefits of state social support, but who, of course, has also come into the vortex of increasing everything, because, and I understand, we are constantly catching up on what is happening. We're running a few months late, and we're putting these people in great danger. I answered the lady because of some of the things she's writing here, so, of course, I've set the record straight. And, of course, that's what this whole extraordinary meeting is about, so that we can do education and tell people where they can help each other and how they can come to help each other. However, the help is constantly delayed, it's too late. We say - and the government coalition laughs at us - that it's late and it's not enough, but it really is. We see it in the examples of different people. The media's been into this for the last two or three weeks. And that may be precisely because the really coming winter can be very, very critical for some families. So I'm very much asking you to support this House's program, because all three issues are very serious. They concern all of us. They concern people who need help, whether it's an increase in parental contribution, which is a law that we have here for several months, whether it's a solution to the current situation at the employment offices, because only here in the House can we have fun and shift the effectiveness of the Labour Office further, or whether it's an increase in the payment decree in field social services, generally in social services. And there I ask very much that we postpone this decision to increase the payment order here until we have a balance on the scales that we will valorize the care allowance, because these people will get into trouble by either having less hours of care, or they will have to borrow somewhere, or they will just have to deal with it in some other way, which will never be pleasant for them. [[9.50 hours]] Because it's about the weakest that means those who are alone, those who are sick, those who are handicapped that we should be like the state should take care of in the first place. The state is doing it, but as I'm saying, it's slow and the help is really weak, because if we name here 10 using something that costs us, we're not always going to solve the cause, and it should be solved, which means, a long time ago, energy prices for manufacturers should have been compromised. Thank you very much, and I'm going to ask you to support the agenda of this meeting. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Before I give the next one with priority rights a word, I'll read the apologies. Dostálová Klára apologizes until 10.30 - health reasons, KaňkovskKaňkovský Vít the whole day - family reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana the whole day - family reasons, Peštová Berenika the whole day - working reasons, Vrána Petr the whole day - working reasons. And now, with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would like to make a specific, clear and effective statement here on all the proposed items of the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting of the opposition convened. This is an extraordinary meeting on social issues that the government of Petr Fiala refuses to address, and millions of our citizens are getting into unsolvable social problems. This is therefore a very serious topic of social policy, which is very important for the SPD, but not for the Fialův Government. And in this social policy, the government as a whole and the responsible minister, Marian Jurečka, from KDU-ČSL, are fundamentally failing. And this is not just some superficial impression of me, but a reality that is backed up by many statistical data and a description of the real state in this area based on the stressful life experiences of hundreds of thousands of citizens. To begin with, it is necessary to say immediately that the government coalition has said that it will not agree to this extraordinary meeting, so you will only let the leadership of both opposition parties speak here and then you want to waste the meeting, because it is simply the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and, at the same time, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka does not want to deal with social matters. You've been in government for a year, you've put millions of people in huge trouble, and you just don't want to deal with it anyway. You reject opposition proposals and at the same time do not propose any positive proposals yourself. That's the current situation. With regard to the government's payment decree, scandalously expensive since January, the prices of social services for our disabled fellow citizens dependent on the assistance of other people and proposals to increase parental contribution, there is one moment that links both of these matters. It is an event that is exactly two weeks old when the government Members here in the House did not apply to their voting facilities, although they were physically present in the hall, knowingly and deliberately blocked the possibility of discussing the proposals made by Mrs Lucie Šafránková for our SPD movement and which would significantly help disabled citizens by increasing incredibly low care contributions. And our SPD proposals would also help our families with the smallest children by increasing their parental contribution, which has been stagnating at the same level for more than three years, and given the overall inflation and increase in the cost of basic living needs over that time, it is absolutely inadequate and it is driving these families into a trap of income poverty. I think it is typical that at the moment I started talking, so Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka sits down and now he talks about something else in the corner, because simply KDU-ČSL doesn't care about social issues, KDU-ČSL doesn't want to help people, which is why he has an ostentatious chair of KDU-ČSL and Minister Marian Jurečka sits down so he doesn't see me, and even arrogantly like he mocks all those citizens who are in social problems. It's the top of the line! It's the top of Marian Jurečka's behavior. [[Minister Jurečka comes and sits in the bench in front of the speaker's desk.]] And I remember you squealing from the opposition in the last parliamentary term, and we were also in opposition when the minister wasn't sitting here and when he was talking about something else. So that's your double standard. But it is this cynical and arrogant attitude that government MPs are choosing even though they are well aware that the government is going to increase the prices of social services again since January, making them unavailable for many disabled people, which will clearly lead to a deterioration in the quality of their lives and, above all, to a deterioration in their health condition. What else is there to call it, except by mocking and spit in the face of these citizens? You are not able to prepare similar proposals with the entire government apparatus in the year of your operation. If we do not want to literally drive our disabled fellow citizens into an unsolvable life and social situation, which the government does, it is our duty first to increase their care contributions, which, by the way, have not increased in the first and second degree for six years, and then to talk about increasing social services payments. The SPD submitted the proposal to increase the care allowance a year ago, and you've been blocking it all along. Yes, the government coalition of Petr Fiala and the Minister and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka have been blocking this increase in the care allowance all along, and you do not have your own proposal and are unable to prepare it. Those are the facts. What does the leadership of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities say? Any increase in social services means a reduction in the number of hours provided for persons dependent on these services. It could be very risky for them. End quote management of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. For example, payments for personal assistance and care services should be increased from CZK 135 to CZK 155 per hour according to the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. The provision of a full-day meal, i.e. three meals a day, will increase from CZK 205 to CZK 225. The price of lunch from 95 to 105 crowns. In the care service, you, the government, and the Minister, propose an increase in the import or delivery rate from 40 to 50 crowns, washing and ironing a kilogram of laundry you want to make more expensive for these people who cannot help themselves, from 80 to 90 crowns and buying food, clothing or household equipment from 140 to 160 crowns. The provision of accommodation, including related services such as cleaning, is designed by the Ministry to increase from CZK 250 to CZK 270 per day. By the way, the allowance for care in the first degree of dependence for persons over the age of 18, which are people who cannot handle three to four basic needs of life alone, is only CZK 880 per month. How many hours can an assistant or caregiver help, and what kind of services can a disabled person pay for a month? For the 880 crowns a month? As I have already submitted, every government is good to evaluate the maximum rationally, without emotions, on the basis of objective standards and facts, depending on whether the life of citizens, especially those at risk, has improved or vice versa. Let's do it! During the operation of the Fialův government, income poverty in society has increased by almost half. It now concerns every sixth household. The number of households with income below the poverty line has increased from 9 per cent at the end of 2021 to 16 per cent at the moment. The most at risk of poverty are self-living seniors, single parents and single parents with children, but it already affects a substantial part of society today. [[10.00 hours]] This results from the data of the Life to Price Project, on which the Czech Radio and PAQ Research are cooperating. Another 16 percent of Czech households have low incomes and savings according to this survey, which will last for a maximum of one month. For single-living seniors, income poverty has increased by 40 percentage points since November 2021 during the Fialův Government. The research quoted shows that 43 percent of the single-living elderly currently live in income poverty. With single parents, it's about half. This is a very grim business card of the Fialův Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, who is also chairman of the KDU-ČSL. According to last week's iDNES server information, 1.3 million of our citizens are already having serious financial problems, who are still mostly falling through a poorly functioning system of social support and assistance due to its complexity, as well as the lack of workers at labour offices and their enormous overload, which is also one of the proposed points of today's meeting. Experts on social policy and social work also confirm that the lack of clarity and inability of the social welfare application system and low awareness by the government are the two biggest obstacles that hundreds of thousands of Czech citizens are trapped in poverty. This is all the responsibility of Prime Minister Petr Fiala's antisocial government. Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of KDU-ČSL, cannot deal with the unhappy situation at the employment offices, which fundamentally threatens the standard of living of tens of thousands of citizens with lower incomes every day. Citizens are waiting for social benefits to which they are legally entitled, often several months. It's something incredible in a modern 21st-century country. It is a fundamental failure of public administration by the particular politicians I am talking about. We in the SPD have repeatedly pointed out this risk, for example, whenever the government and Minister Jurečka have loaded the authorities with other agendas and duties, and at the same time their overloaded workers with exaggeration said and in quotes for remuneration have significantly reduced real wages. The situation didn't fall from the sky. It doesn't last a few days, but at least three quarters of a year. First, the employees of the employment offices had to contact citizens who, after the collapse of some private energy suppliers, remained with the supplier of the last instance. The number of requests for social benefits increased greatly due to rising energy prices and high inflation, as well as the number of requests for housing contributions or for benefits of material distress. Moreover, after a double increase in the amount of living and existential minimums, the Office's staff must recalculate a large number of existing benefits. In connection with the war in Ukraine, the payment of the humanitarian contribution to the Ukrajinec and the contribution to their accommodation was added. And all this at a time when the government decided to freeze the salaries of employees of the employment offices for the second year in a row. The government orders new and new agendas for its employees, but it does not want to pay them adequately. And we see the consequences. New employees, women in particular, take up the busy labour offices for a salary of CZK 18 to 19 000 gross, the salary of employees after several years of practice is between 22 and 25 000 gross. Of course, the primary cause is the inability of the Fialův government to deal with expensive energy. This is what you have put the whole country into these unsolvable social, economic and financial problems, because unlike other countries, you simply do not solve expensive energy or expensive food. And we've been telling you how to solve this since spring -- to put a price on the producer directly and so on and so on. But you just don't want to do it for ideological reasons. So you took a hostage because of your... I'd say a distorted ideology, you took the whole Czech Republic hostage. But back to work at the employment offices, because the real situation between employees, and they're mostly women, so it's really very tense there, it's been for many months, precisely because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečkan't deal with it. And it pays both citizens of the Czech Republic, both the clients, both the applicants and the workers themselves. The situation is really crazy. Work at the offices of work is not only psychologically very demanding, but often dangerous and sometimes literally dangerous, as we know. Arrogance, aggression, verbal attacks, but also physical assaults by officials are becoming more and more frequent. But what is the cause? Again, it is Petr Fiala's government, which, with its incompetence, incompetence and inactivity, has put citizens in such enormous social problems that citizens are already desperate. Politically motivated suicides are increasing. There's candles burning in front of the government's office every day. The media, because they're on your side, they don't inform enough. That's where the 73-year-old senior shot himself, in front of the Office of the Government. We can assume motives. But the fact that this is before the Office of the Government is a clear political step. And if there was one. The lady jumped from the Labor Office. It means, it's all one step at a time, one appalling and sad act at a time, when there's just... Yeah, we don't know the specific reasons. But the fact that it's happening in these exact places, of course, is that there's this motivation for the miserable situation that the government is showing, that's more than likely when desperate citizens choose these places. And there are other serious things and phenomena in the social system. The Ombudsman's office recently pointed out that we have an enormous shortage of social workers and that some work with up to twice the number of children at risk than the standard of 80 families or children. This allows practically social workers to deal only with cases of life-threatening children, and almost at all the others. Is that normal, Minister? The Ombudsman Stanislav Křeček literally warns that the institutions of social-law protection of children are collapsing and that if the state does not act immediately, the whole system of child protection can collapse as well. And what does Minister Jurečka from KDU-ČSL have to say about this? Nothing at all. And again, like the employment offices, employees are enormously overloaded, working at the expense of their leisure and private life. There's a shortage, low wages, zero benefits, new people don't come here to work logically. The consequences of this condition can be fatal. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is calm and gives out unsolicited advice and wisdom on Twitter and, as a sort of side business, has taken on the management of the Ministry of the Environment, which means another incompetent matter, when Minister Jurečka has never really been involved in this topic. I think Minister Jurečka has the impression that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs works perfectly and is sufficient for a part-time minister here, which is why the Ministry of the Environment has taken on. And you're sitting in two chairs at once, and you're doing two ministers at once. I think it's good for you, Mr. Secretary, to be called all over the place, Mr. Secretary. But you can't handle the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. There's a collapse! I mean, there's collapse all over the place! And it concerns both pensioners, both seniors and disabled citizens and other needy people, children, as we see, families. I mean, you've brought this department into complete collapse in a year, and millions of people are paying for it. And everyone sees it. He can't take excuses here anymore. I just gave you hard data here, clear statistics, where you led the citizens of the Czech Republic. And the highlight is, of course, and repeatedly, that you announced in advance, your chairman of the Marek Výborný KDU-ČSL, that you will have this extraordinary meeting called by the opposition again, so that we do not discuss these problems again. [[10.10 hours]] We here, as opposition, want to discuss our concrete proposals for solutions, I have appointed them here. Dozens of SPD laws are filed here in the House, literally dozens of laws we passed. Laws and amendments in the social sphere of the SPD have only been filed this year by around 50 here in the House. And you're blocking the discussion of these concrete positive proposals for citizens, and you're not suggesting anything yourself, and you don't even want to discuss it. That is why you will be busy with this extraordinary meeting so that other members of the opposition are not able to discuss it, because now, before the programme is approved, only Members with priority rights, which, of course, there are only a few of us here. So this is the approach of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL and the Government of Petr Fiala. That's the arrogance, that's the contempt. And it is indeed the culmination of the irresponsibleness of the entire KDU-ČSL towards the citizens of this country. Even the peak of irresponsibleness, incompetence, incompetence, and zero social empathy of a person who unfortunately stands at the top of the government hierarchy for our state and its citizens - Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS. After the annual experience with this government, it can be said that unless there are substantial, not cosmetic, personnel changes in the entire government, the ideally complete end of the five-calice ODS government, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and the Pirate Party, the situation in the key area of social policy will unfortunately not change for the better. The SPD movement, of course, will support the agenda for this opposition meeting on social issues, just as we always support it and, above all, we are making proposals to help decent and working citizens who, due to the Fialův Government, find themselves in an increasingly difficult social situation. Now allow me to conclude by thanking all the workers of the employment offices, all the social workers and volunteers who help, all the decent and working people, and also from our Member to thank Lucie Šafránková, who has a social issue with us, but because of Petr Fiala's government, she will not be able to perform here because you do not want to approve the agenda of the meeting, so it is simply an incredible matter. I must also thank all those workers who are getting into serious trouble because of the inactivity of the Fialův government. There's nothing left to do with this government, because you're sticking to the trough like ticks and you don't want to, and you don't want to hand over the government to others and more capable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister Jurečka will now speak with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. Good morning, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members. Let me speak here for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and respond, on the one hand, to the proposal to convene this meeting, as well as to the argument put forward by my two previous speakers, Mr Juchelka and Mr Tomio Okamura, and to what steps the government is taking specifically to help vulnerable populations in the Czech Republic in the context of the energy crisis, high inflation. And I would also describe, for example, the things that have been repeatedly mentioned here with regard to the issues of labour offices. I'll just remind you of the key steps we've taken in 12 months, not yet a year, it'll be this week when the government has responsibility for the functioning of our country. And we started at the beginning of January. At the beginning of January, here in the Chamber of Deputies in a state of legislative emergency, we discussed the amendment of the Act on State Social Support so that we could respond to the situation of rising energy prices. And it was a moment when energy prices had been known to rise since September 2021. And there was no government proposal, no government bill on the MPSV to deal with this. And she knew, Minister Maláčová, that the government of Andrej Babiš had to deal with this and that by far it would not be enough just to increase what was done at government level by changing government regulations. So we've made an adjustment here so that we can operationally increase the so-called normalities. And let me just remind you, housing allowance is really one of the key aids to help households cope with rising housing costs. And when I got on the MPSV, the so-called normalizer was ceilinging - 45 percent of the applicants came across the ceiling, and they were not adequately compensated for the housing costs that they had raised, they only received the amount of the ceiling. We modified this standard during 2022, we modified its rules as well. And the fundamental adjustment of the next one, which took place after that January 1st, was as of October 1st. As of 1 October, standardizations increased significantly, price levels adjusted, parameters for single and double households were adjusted, and today the basic aid mechanism works so that if the household is unable to cover housing costs and exceeds the housing costs of more than 30% of the household's income, they are entitled to this aid. And after the adjustment in October, 85 percent of households today are in a situation where they are fully compensated for the costs they have for electricity, for gas, for housing that is above 30% of household income. But that's not the end of the story. We responded to this, and the House and the Senate adopted this last month's further proposal, and that again is the amendment of the Act on State Social Support, when we united some things that for me are incomprehensible, why they lasted so long, for example, there was a different border, which is the possibility of a household asking for a housing allowance. In Prague it was a limit of 35 percent of household income, outside of Prague 30 percent. Until then, no one had the need to deal with this. We have modified this, we have again made an increase in the limits for households that drown solid fuels, mainly because of the rising prices of wood pellets. So we're taking the steps we're directing to support households, and we're also showing how the requests come from households, when the biggest increase just came with October, when we adjusted the normalities, and when we compare October 2021 and October 2022, the increase - 32 percent of the households asked for this form of support, and the increase in funds is more than 40 percent. The average monthly support that we provide to households in the framework of the housing allowance was CZK 4,100 per November, after adjusting the normalities that were in October, CZK 4,600 per month for these households. So really this is targeted address support. As a minister, I am not interested in people being in a situation where they go and ask for social support in the long term, for a contribution to housing, but I am interested in being able to direct these people to the fact that, if they have their real estate, they can take measures that involve heating the facade, changing windows, doors, investing in a new way of heating, that is to say, photovoltaic panels, heat pump. And that's why we've linked the system of advice between labour offices, social workers in the field, employees of the State Environmental Fund, local action groups, precisely to offer meaningful long-term solutions to these people. And the solution is - you don't have to depend on the state social support in this area, but you can take measures that will benefit your household in the long term. You reduce your housing costs, reduce your dependence on energy supply from external suppliers. I mean, that's the sensible concept that the state is supposed to support even when there's no war where there's no high energy prices. It's just supposed to support the state in the long run. [[10.20 hours]] And that's what we do. We have set the New Green Savings Light, which allows low-income households to have funds for these measures for the first time. We've set up the system and the backup. If the household doesn't have the funds to buy the material for the investment, it can use the advance, buy it, do it, do it by its own means. He doesn't have to have a complicated project to do that. After it does, it only delivers a simple form with photo documentation before and after and this support receives the household. So it's another shift in finding meaningful, long-term, rational solutions. Then, during 2002, we made twice the increase in the living and existential minimum, which is linked to further benefits of state social support, where the range of potential beneficiaries is expanding and these forms of support are also increasing here. And that's what the government did yesterday, when we've been increasing the life and existential minimum since January 1st. Furthermore, we have taken steps that have also led to support for vulnerable groups of people, such as people with disabilities. This House has adopted a proposal that not only adjusted the amount of the mobility contribution, but also expanded the part of people who, for example, depend on energy-intensive appliances, oxygen generators, and so on, have this rate increased. We have made increased support for people who need special aids, who need to rebuild their home and need, for example, a platform because they are immobile. These steps have been implemented here and are effective today. Yes, things have also been done in the area of pension valorization, statutory pension valorisation, which is helping about 3.4 million pension recipients today of old age, disability, widows, widowers, orphans. So I have to define myself here as saying that the government isn't helping people. It's not true. The government helps people. The government has also taken key steps in the area of direct energy support. The tariff available by the end of this year meant clear, effective assistance to households with payments for electricity and gas. The government has ensured that we have enough gas, we have covered the entire winter heat season. Those weren't things that happened automatically. Yesterday, the government also reached the support of the entire segment of customers, from households, small and medium-sized enterprises, the public sector and those large enterprises. They are sure and know what price calculations they can expect for next year in their production. These are the steps that also lead to the Czech Republic having the lowest unemployment in the long term and the lowest unemployment in the whole of the European Union. When the questions of the Labor Office are mentioned here, let me comment on them. I requested information from my ministry on how, for example, the previous government dealt with the issue of the Labour Office. So let me just mention here that in 2019 for 2020 Prime Minister Andrej Babiš repeatedly wrote letters to Minister Jana Maláčová and expressed gross discontent with the functioning of the Labor Office with the functioning of the Directorate-General of the Labour Office, the system. And in those letters, these things are described. What Mr Juchelka was talking about here is not a matter that would happen for my ministry. That's the thing your President here is talking about in 2019 in these letters. I'd be happy to give them to you. I can quote from them. Here he talks about how the authorities of work from his point of view are not functional, how changes need to be made. So, please, nicely, if you were to perceive the criticism you've put up here in the context that over the last four years, you've also had government responsibility for how this resort works, how the work offices work, then you have to realize that the fact that there's a long-term staff-insolved situation is not a problem for the last 12 months. It's been a problem for at least two or three years. The fact that the issue of good funding for the people who work there has not been a problem for the last 12 months is a long-term problem. And there are many other things that - and I think that Andrej Babiš quite rightly wrote here in these letters, but what has really changed in the four years that he was Prime Minister? Nothing's changed at all. The question of the IT system - it hasn't moved anywhere. The digitalization issue at that office-- it hasn't moved anywhere. If this were to be dealt with, there were a lot of things that were mentioned here today that we didn't have to discuss at all because they would have been settled long ago. Mr Juchelka here spoke of the legislative complexity, the difficulty for applicants for benefits, but what happened during the previous government in terms of simplifying the system, in terms of eliminating the senseless bureaucracy? Unfortunately, nothing happened. Here was the question of the care allowance. Yes, I want it to increase, and we have it in the bill on State Social Support. But let's be fair, I'll just remind you what was the situation with the care allowance in the last parliamentary term. And I will quote here a colleague of Vítek Kaňkovský, who has devoted himself very intensively to this issue. The care allowance increased in field services in 2018 and this was based on the Senate proposal - the Senate proposal - behind which Senator Jelínková, Horská, Plaček stood. And the government coalition didn't want it. Minister Schillerová did not want to accept this increase in the care allowance, but she succeeded on the Senate's proposal. If we move on, the increase that occurred in the care allowance in residential facilities. Well, that happened only with the MP's amendment, for which MEPs and MPs Pastuchová, Šafránková, Kaňkovský were behind. It wasn't a government proposal and government activity where an enlightened prime minister would come in here and say: we have to valorize the care allowance after years and we will do it. And Vítek Kaňkovský described to me how the negotiations with the Minister for this debate, this parliamentary amendment, took place. The Minister of Finance did not want to accept this proposal - an increase in the contribution to care. So I'm just saying this because I don't like throwing over hot potatoes. I try to sort things out step by step. And we don't solve everyone day by day. But it is unfair, it is unfair to have a criticism from Aleš Juchelka, a Member who has been part of the previous government coalition for four years and who was one of the key experts of the YES movement on social policy and criticizes the things for which he could have done a great deal of work in the previous four years. And he didn't take the steps. [[Non-approval of Members YES.]] So I don't think that's appropriate. If Aleš Juchelka had gotten out here and said, "I've submitted a proposal four times to increase my care allowance, and every time my coalition government colleagues fired me with it," it would have been a criticism that's appropriate today. If Aleš Juchelka had come forward and said, "I have submitted an amendment to the State Social Support Act, where I am simplifying things for the benefit of clients, applicants, for the benefit of workers at the employment office, and I have failed," his criticism would have been appropriate here today. But nothing like this has been done here either. I don't give up responsibility for moving things around and making people more favorable to the client environment, and that's what we're doing. In 12 years of work, even digitalisation did not take place at all. I came to the Ministry - and this is a probative fact - in April we had a digital dose for a solidarity home, the same for a humanitarian benefit. Solidary household, this post runs fully in digital form. It is possible to submit an application only digitally and digitally the whole process of control and payout is done in this form. The humanitarian dose that we also built for digital is running today, more than 90 percent of these applicants are applying digitally and digitally running administration. From the beginning of July we put into digital a contribution to housing, in August we put in digital a one-time help to 5,000 crowns for families, then we put into digital a parent and put in digital an encore for a child. In five months! In five months, we put together six concrete aids in the social system that are running in digital today, and some in a hundred percent of our applications. You can criticize me for a lot of things, and it would also be fair to come and say yes, there's a positive shift. There's a positive shift. And I also thank you that for some things it was because we changed some things in legislation. Even thanks to the votes of the opposition Members. I'm telling it fair and square here. [[10.30 hours]] And we have other steps planned for next year, which will not only mean transferring doses to digital, but will mean further simplification for the client, when the data that the state has will be able to take to a much greater extent with the consent of the applicant directly from other registers. I don't want people to have to walk with a paper form of a receipt from the accounting office about the amount of their income, when this information is passed on by the employer to the state anyway. I don't want people coming in the future and giving us information about whether or not the child is studying when the state has the information anyway. And we're changing these things now over the next few months. But I honestly don't understand what's been going on for the last four, eight years, why these things haven't been done at the Labor Office. Let me respond to some of the other specific things that were also said here from President Babiš's mouth two days ago, and I think that they really weren't correct at all, and they were a demonstration at some moments that the Prime Minister didn't actually know the nature of the problems, because he was talking about some things in a very distorted way. So let me just mention the question of late benefits. It pisses me off. It's a phenomenon that was in the Labor Office last year, but it's also fair to say that today, the Labor Office serves 1.7 million clients a month. And where we're late after the legal deadline, it's less than 2 percent. Less than 2 per cent of applicants. And it is also fair to say that part of these applicants is not the problem on the side of the Labor Office. It is a problem where the client failed to provide or communicate with some information. And if an official at the Labor Office wanted better statistics, he'd have the right to suspend the administrative procedure, at which point there wouldn't be a deadline, at which point the statistics would be significantly improved, and when he delivered it, he would have restored it. We don't do that. It would be useless bureaucracy again. But let's remember that this problem is of a long-term nature and is related, among other things, to some specific situation, especially here in the capital city of Prague, when labour offices are overloaded here. They're in a state of personnel. The personnel base here takes two years. We're taking steps to change that. We have strengthened people into agreements, we have strengthened people in other regions where we are able to take those people into shape on the labour market, and they are also helping us to process applications from applicants who come to the employment offices in Prague today. We're taking steps to change that. I would like to mention here the question of what was said here that these people are miserablely paid. I quote the words directly to Andrej Babiš from Tuesday. Well, I just want to remind you of the facts. In 2021, the average salary of the employee of the employment office was CZK 31 749 and the average remuneration was CZK 27 523...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u11	I would like to ask all of you to please keep your voice down, or to arrange a meeting in front of the O.R. One more time, please, colleagues from the left side. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u12	In 2022, the average salary of CZK 35 970 and the average remuneration of CZK 54 000 per year are still unaccounted for in December this year. 54,000 crowns a year, when this amount of reward is really extraordinary, because these people are also performing an extraordinary performance. And that's what it's all about to come down and say thank you. And we also have to look at the fact that tariffs were raised in September, and we have made an agreement with the unions that, during 2023, we will do an adjustment in one folder that appreciates, say, a difficult and demanding working environment so that they can be sure that the wage growth is certain and that the workers on the counters will reach it. But to blame here for the question of remuneration at the Labor Office is simply pointing out that no one came back in the previous years to address this systemically. Again, I can ask whether Mr Juchelka has spoken in the last four years when he was still a coalition MP to ask his prime minister, his finance minister, his coalition colleague, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to change their approach to the remuneration of people at the employment offices. I'd be very happy to have Aleš Juchelka here publicize whether or not a step that would deal with and want to change pay at the employment offices if he made it. If he didn't do it, then it's just a cheap criticism that somebody's gonna come in here, now he's gonna stand up here, it looks great on the camera, but if I mean my job as a politician and I'm doing it systemically, then I have to come in and say it either in the past when I could influence it, I've done it, I've tried to influence it in a positive direction, or I haven't done it, I've been sitting for four years, I've been nodding wisely, and now I'm coming and spouting opposition criticism. The Prime Minister here criticized two days ago that Jurečka was completely out of his mind and that he had decided to limit his office hours at the employment offices and that this would make it worse to deal with the agenda. I want to make it clear here that the request, the request to limit office hours for a temporary period, did not come from me, came from the employees of the employment offices, from regional directors and directors who asked that people at the employment offices have at least some part of the working time to devote themselves fully to clients' requests and to confiscate them so that there is a clearly defined space where they will have full time for this. And I'm in trouble at the Labor Office. I meet people, I meet regional directors at regional directors' meetings, which we do directly with me and my fellow Deputys and Deputys, I visit the employment offices, and I know that the situation is extremely complicated, complicated, tense and not easy, but we try to take steps as far as possible to manage it, to fund those people for the work they have done, and to look for systemic solutions in the future. And that's what we do. And I would especially ask Mr Okamura not to drag in the misfortune of strangers who are here from his mouth in the spirit that a lady who jumped up and committed suicide in a building where we have a part of the hired offices as the Labor Office, when I have information from the police that her step was not linked to the decision of the Labor Office, was not there as a client who would have been rejected in something. It's so cheap to say these things publicly in space, and I want to ask you to let this one go. We can say a lot of criticism here, we can put emotions into it, but putting in a story of a person who has nothing to do with this agenda, I think it's really unfair. Then, if we look further, there are things that we're systematically trying to implement. When it came down to the fact that we are not dealing with the situation adequately, that the Prime Minister would have gone there, former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and he would have taken the lead there, I, besides what I said here to digitize, to strengthen personnel capacity, so I want to make it clear that during 2022, we have also taken steps in which officials from both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the people from our departmental organizations, such as the Czech Social Security Administration and other MPSV components, are actively involved in helping people to work offices. We are making it flexible for the human resources that we can give and strengthen to an agenda that is linked to the processing of clients' requests to do so. We have launched a special operation office in Liberec, where these people are helping today with the agenda of the currently overloaded office of work here in Prague. So coming back here and saying these things and this criticism from former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's mouth, it is contrary to what he himself described three years ago, that it doesn't work, but by the time he was Prime Minister of that government, nothing has been done systemically to change these things. There are also notes for a payment order. Whoever really is a person who is in social services knows that the payment decree is also linked to the possibility for providers to provide quality care and quality services. And we need to remember that in 2022, the vast majority of clients had a total of three increases in retirement and disability pensions. The vast majority of people who are then clients of social services are beneficiaries of these pensions. [[10.40 hours]] Then, of course, there's a group of people who don't have this income, that's about 5,000 people, and here we're preparing the adjustment to be socially sensitive. We're increasing the amount until the limit of 80 hours is exhausted, then it remains the same, we're dealing with providers so that next year we can fund the care of clients who, even today or two years ago, weren't able to have the full care they needed, because they just didn't have enough money to cover the needs of people. But there is also one important thing to say. That payment order doesn't mean that the provider will automatically do that to the client in all cases. That decree provides for a maximum amount of remuneration for these services. And a lot of providers know and know the client's situation, and they don't approach it at a flat rate to say, let's raise it at the top of the payment order. And I have done my utmost to ensure that social services are safe for this and next year in a situation where they have secure financial resources. This year we have also funded, and when I talk to people from the field, whether they are representatives of social services that set up regions or other social service providers, they appreciate the step that they have enough needs covered this year. We increased the financing of social services by 12 percent for next year. And I told it for the first time in history to these people the first week of September. They've never heard it from the government this early. And I discussed it with them, and I said, this is the proposal. I discussed it with the regions so that the regions could possibly adjust their budgets, and not that they learned it in the past only after the House approved the third reading, and whether it decided on some of the changelings that were recorded here in the past, especially by colleagues from the Communist Party. No, I didn't leave those people in doubt. I went and at the beginning of September I told them: this and this is the allocation for next year, it is sufficient allocation, it was discussed. And they said, yes, it's a sufficient allocation. So it is necessary to perceive these things when we talk about social services really in the context of all these measures, and not come on camera here and populously pull out one thing that I will shine in the light that I need, and I am only talking about those things in the perspective that is appropriate because I am an opposition MP and because it is good to work with the atmosphere of fear. I really don't want to do this. I have always said that I am open to any of the Members and Senators, whether they are opposition or coalition, to talk to them about the issue of my department. When I come to the Social Committee, I try really fair and honest to respond to the things that fall there. And I also said there are things that I can see that it's not set well, where there's a mistake, that the resort does it so and so, and I want to change it. And if you look at the legislative plan and the steps we've taken and we're going to do next year, we're changing them. And we're entering things that no one's had to deal with ambition for years. So please let's really be more objective than we sounded in this debate today. I think I may have responded to the essentials that have been raised here in the debate on the proposal for this extraordinary meeting. On the issue of family support, this has also been repeatedly raised. So here we have done more to support our parents in the area of flexibility this year, in the area of the rate of parental contribution, and we have also set up support for the shorter periods that have been mentioned here for many years. Again, over the last four years, the government has not come up with the idea of saying: we want to support parents, we want to support carers who take care of their loved ones at home, we want to support people 55 years of age plus age. We have introduced support for part-time jobs so that these people in the labour market have a certain benefit, that employers be prepared and provide them part-time jobs to combine their family responsibilities, worries, with the job. The employer - and this will apply from 1 February 2023, where the employer can provide a part-time allowance for social security. And I think that's a thing that really makes a lot of sense. We are preparing even more flexibility for parents. And for them, and I have made it clear, there cannot be a government policy in a situation where both our country and Europe are dying, that we, as folks, will not allow that to happen. On the contrary, I want us to make it clear that the courage, the bravery, the concern, the intensity of parental care will really be our center of attention, that we will appreciate it, and we are taking those steps. That this company will not just build a pension system on the merits of financial earnings, but also on the merit of caring, raising, getting up at night, breast-feeding, changing that this is the value of raising children, we also want to appreciate that. And we are doing these steps both in the area of better support and parent care, as well as in the area of draft pension reform, when I want these things to be clearly accentuated there. We're preparing so-called neighborhood children's groups. This means, in addition to the kindergarten system, standard children's groups we want to add another form of less formal childcare. I want my parents to be free to decide and get to work at two, two and a half years of child's age according to their needs. But what's the problem today is not the length of the parenting. Today the problem is what these surveys clearly tell us is that 75 percent of those women who are the third and fourth year of parenting would like to work at least part-time, but they do not have the care of their children in pre-school education. And that's one of the things we aim to change. That is why we are still preparing the form of neighborhood children so that there is really maximum flexibility in this area. And it was said here that we're running around here, and we're not in time to solve the problems. I would say rather - unfortunately, we were caught up with what had been neglected and not addressed in the past. If it was so great for my predecessors, well, I'm actually gonna come and say, I'm not supposed to be here, I'm actually gonna do some maintenance here, and the system is going great. Why is there so much criticism on the system, on his administration? Because it's just been neglected in the past. So now we're trying to work this out together and eliminate the reasons why this happened. Then there was the story of the husband who was mentioned here. Well, I have to say, yes, it's not comfortable for someone to come and ask for help. But if there's an extraordinary situation in a person's life, come and ask for help, it seems to me that it's something common, human. When situations like floods, tornadoes, fires, it's just normal that there's a state that, when the help of the nearest family isn't enough, it's not enough to help the village, it comes and helps with the system. And to say that I'm in a difficult situation, but I'm not going to ask for a housing allowance, I just don't think it's an ideal situation either. So if I'm in a situation where my housing costs have increased, and the state is clearly saying, here is a form of aid, then it seems logical to me, either I choose to take advantage of it or then I don't go and complain about the state. And when there are proposals for how these causes are to be dealt with here, I have heard here and many of our colleagues, both coalition MPs and government, have heard, do it like Orbán, do it like in Poland. Look at Slovakia, how great it is. But what is the result of these governments' policies? Huge debt and further debt increases both in Hungary and Poland, wheel spins in inflation and the problems that they spilled over into future generations, which will have to pay for the whole thing. But the people in their country for next month, maybe a year or two, the actions of these governments really didn't help. You guys have been talking about this for months, and now I get it, it's the moon, you don't talk about it much anymore, or almost at all, but let's be objective. I understand that it is appropriate when the opposition comes and says: do it better and do it faster and do those measures to a greater extent. That's the role of the opposition. It's okay. But putting in place here for examples of solutions that do not work and which are to the detriment of those citizens is not the work of the opposition responsible. Or the opposition then has to come up and say: we want the debt budget here, we're going to cut another 2 trillion crowns of deficit here, and we're going to spin rounds of inflation. Well, if we're going to tame inflation, that means helping that government must be extremely targeted. Targeted to the max. If we're going to distribute across the board, we're never going to control the inflation. [[10.50 hours]] And one final point. I'll go back to the media shootout, as it was named here, between me and the head of the Labor Office. No, it's not a media shootout. For months, I patiently answered journalists' questions about many matters directly related to the Labour Office and the competences of the Labour Office. And last week, I just said to the press that there are things that I see differently that were supposed to be handled differently by managers, but the minister can't manage them because he doesn't have the competence under the Civil Service Act. I've just objectively described the condition and I'm going back to it again. In fact, these are the things that former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš described when he wrote the eleven letters to Jana Maláčová over two years. It is an interesting reading, and I will pass it on to Mr Juchelek to see what has been pointed out, but unfortunately, what has never been resolved during the previous government. To my regret. If this had been resolved, I would have had a lot less to worry about today, it would have been much better for the citizens and much better for the workers at the employment offices, to whom, of course, big thanks belong. They have holy patience and thanks to all who do this work today with great commitment, beyond normal working hours. That is what needs to be said here, and to the thanks that have been said here, I am fully joining in. But I didn't just thank you, but I also gave those people the highest possible financial appreciation. Only the amount paid for the premium of these people was CZK 580 million in 2022. So it's not fair to say that we haven't done anything about these people's remuneration. That's really not fair. I've been longer, it's not my custom, but I think it was necessary for me to respond to things that sounded here and that weren't objective and weren't put on some fair, at least reasonably fair, argumentative level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u13	Hello. For your information, I have three applications with priority rights - Mr Juchelka, Mrs Schillerová and Mrs Richterová. And before I give my word to Mr. Juchelek, I'll read the apologies. Mr Jakob apologises from 9-45 to 11.00 for working reasons, Mrs Schillerová from 10.00 to 10.30 and Mrs Balaštíková from 10-45 to 12.00. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u14	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed a long speech, a lot of words that have been said here. One would sometimes wear a handkerchief with Minister Jurečka, alternately running away, crying about how amazing and fantastic it all is. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] And I think that specifically, the Minister has told us almost nothing. Minister, I have been or have tried to be constructive here, I have tried to present you with all the problems that come from our citizens, I have tried to tell you the things that are bothering the citizens here, and you have responded with a lot of words again, and most importantly, you have responded to this Andrej Babiš. Well, you don't normally have it, so I think that this coalition simply couldn't work in any way, it would have been over by now, but only the anti-grandmother keeps you together like some glue that you're sticking your problems to, because here, and simply, every problem we're drawing attention to, instead of answering it specifically, it's always a question of anti-grandmother. [[Applause on the left]] In addition, I would ask you, the next time you address me as Mr Juchelka, to do this through Mr President, which you have not done once. [[Objection of Minister Jurečka off the microphone.]] He called, and I'm asking you not to call me now. So, about the individual points. I realize - and I was really calm and I normally said my 40-minute speech here just to tell you what's going on right now. So I would like to point out to you that KDU-ČSL has been in several governments, even in the past eight years you have been sitting in government, even with Andrej Babiš, imagine, you have been sitting here in that government, criticizing yourself. The fact that someone writes some criticisms on the authorities of work, and you know very well how coalition governance works, of course that's only a good thing. In the last parliamentary term, the MPSV was in charge of the ČSSD. You know how it works, the government coalition rule, but you'll be here demagogically and manipulatively, almost taking a handkerchief and tearing, saying how Babiš does it or doesn't do it. I simply criticized you here, I came here with the subject, mine is here this extraordinary meeting of the House, because I proposed this program, because you are not going to solve it, nor are you going to come up with that committee on social policy to answer for us, and you are covering for some deputy and CEO of the Labor Office, which you may eventually release. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] So let's start one step at a time. In November and December 2021, Babišův's government forgave VAT on energy. That was a concrete step that took place when you here criticize that nothing has been done with energy since September. This specifically was, in November and December, people had zero on their energy invoices. What he did or didn't do to Juchelka in the last term. Well, let me give you a little credit here, Minister, and I hope you'll call it a day, because sometimes I praise you for the things you, as Minister, do. So, as far as family policy is concerned, Andrej Babiš's government increased the parental allowance from CZK 220 to CZK 300,000. Aleš Juchelka's amendment, so he did that all parents would not be cut short with parental contributions if they had a younger child born into their family, as it was, because it was no longer a parent's dose, but a child's dose. One child equals 300,000 crowns, whatever the other third child is born to him at any time. For example, Aleš Juchelka - a parent's fee. As regards, for example, practical teaching and part-time jobs, we, I, with my amendment, have started that practical teaching and part-time work among students are not included in the family's common income when they ask for child benefits. You're the ones who made this happen, and thank you very much for that, and they don't count, for example, on housing contributions anymore. Congratulations, but the original idea was here from this criticized Juchelka. Third and fourth grade care allowance - are you kidding me? After all, it was increased by 6,000 just during Babišův's reign. We're the ones who increased the care allowance. Yes, it was a proposal because, of course, it ended with the election of government in which you sat, the government was new here, and you followed up on this Senate proposal, and we all supported it. So it's not that it did KDU-ČSL, because you have a really great talent for bragging about foreign feathers, but it was a matter of the entire government coalition, a contribution to care. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] As for the present, for example, in family policy, we have increased the subsidy title from CZK 100 to CZK 150 million, for example, to the Center for Family and Social Welfare. As for the present, the mobility allowance, we had it here in the Chamber of Deputies a few months before you had it. As far as parental allowance is concerned, too. You're just following up on the things we've had since, for example, June in the House system. As far as the authorities themselves are concerned, I think that all the reporters who listened to us and played it backwards will be very happy, because there is no real problem, and when there is a problem, the Minister does not enjoy it. That's great. I'd rather expect you to practically say how you're going to deal with it. On the other hand, when it comes to digitization, we commend you for all the new benefits, for the humanitarian benefit, for the solidarity contribution to accommodation, for the child allowance. Yes, it is great that you are doing this here, and we have appreciated it, for example, in the fact that we made a resolution on the last Committee on Social Policy - where you were missing - where we appreciate this digitization. [[11.00 hours]] But the truth is, you're so keen on this agenda, including how many seniors, for example, are supposed to put in their kettle of water when they want to pour a cup of tea - this is what a social worker at the employment office should advise. They simply fail to keep up, under your rule the authorities are collapsing, under your rule 400 officials are missing. We drew attention to this, for example, by letters written by our Prime Minister Andrej Babiš during the last parliamentary term of Jana Maláčová. Once again, coalition rule is hard, and you know it very well, but demagogically and manipulatively here you say something else as if it were a walk through a pink garden. It's not that, and I'm really upset about this here. The opposition keeps pushing you into decisions, and I'm glad for that, because the opposition is supposed to serve. I, as Aleš Juchelka, am a constructive opposition. Until you start waving letters from the past, eight letters eight years old, four letters four years old, this isn't what happened in the past. Who's to blame for all this? Well, of course, Andrej Babiš. You don't have it, so I really don't know what you're going to do in the future. About the senseless bureaucracy. On the contrary, we are the opposition that wants to help you. I mean, we're voting here with everything you come up with in digitalization. But the fact that the digitalization doesn't work for all the doses and, on the contrary, the robust work of all those officers because it's simply simple for the client, but not for the referees themselves, that's a simple fact. That's why it's falling apart. It is indeed, Minister, I'm sorry, but it is your managerial failure. Your managerial failure. I don't have any more notes here. I'm terribly sorry that you're always on the basis of some criticism or what's going on on the committee, or what's going on here in plenary, so instead of giving a constructive answer to us in fact - because I'm preparing for it here with different numbers, contexts, analyses, I'm deep in it, I read it - you always fly out of the box like a devil, and you answer demagogically here. It's really from you, I'd say, a nasty argument. I really beg you in the future, if you want us to be a constructive opposition that helps you in some way to rush a government agenda that we don't have a problem with, then don't do this here. Don't be so emotional, don't be so manipulative, don't tell these people something that's not true, and don't try to distract yourself from trouble. Trouble that's a few years old, which, just like the letters from Prime Minister Babiš, was tried to solve. You have a problem here, you're in the government, you're responsible, you do something about it, and don't make excuses for what happened in the past! It's not fair!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u15	Another application with priority rights is Mrs Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will not repeat what my honourable colleague, shadow minister of labour and social affairs, Aleš Juchelka, said here. I'm signing everything he said here. Although I have been excused for business reasons, I have heard part of your speech, Minister. I gotta tell you, I just rewritten my speech right away. I had something prepared and you said so much that I was sorry, I have to - or be angry, I don't care - I have to respond to it, even considering I sat in Andrej Babiš's government for four years. Notaben, I haven't heard your performance all the time since I moved here -- but only in the time I've heard, you've said Andrej Babiš seven times, I've been drawing marks. Seven times. You even said Prime Minister about three or four times. Well, you know why? Because he really was the Prime Minister. That was the Prime Minister we all knew about, and we knew what he was dealing with. And that's why he wrote those letters to Jana Maláčová. I know, I read them, the letters. We often talked about them in government. Because he didn't care that it was just years and years there - of course it wasn't just for Jana Maláčová, let me be fair - he didn't solve the problem of Vendor lock, the dependence on supply companies. That he just didn't want her to put herself on the government, to extend the community, which, according to the specialists, wasn't okay. Yes, he didn't like the fact that there were problems at the employment offices, and it was handled. It wasn't just about writing a letter. Of course, it was also about dealing with it. Because we, too, have spent four years - and I have been in both governments of Andrej Babiš - two years, or more than two years, in a severe covidal crisis when the labour authorities and the Czech Social Security Administration were overwhelmed by work. Yes, it was. Antivirus and other programs that were going on there. But we knew that, and Andrej Babiš, when he got the impulses - and you get them when I get them as an opposition politician, so you get them too. I've been talking to a whole bunch of officials from the Labor Office. I'm not going to name them so I don't put them at risk. It was at those meetings that we've been driving all summer and autumn, maybe I'd recommend when they came to us and told us stories and write them down. And he didn't care. When he learned it from the unionists or those people or somewhere just when he was discussing with the citizens, he went and dealt with it and wanted information and maybe wrote the letter. But the agenda has simply been managed, and we have also taken this into account at the employment offices with the extraordinary rewards that we have dealt with, and have often voted within the office, i.e. in a government meeting or government meeting. Because the money had to be taken from somewhere other than the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where it just wasn't on that item. We knew we had to appreciate these people because they were doing it with their heart. That's the greatest of our wealth, and it's due to them, as Aleš Juchelka said, that they do it with their heart. But you know what the problem is? Instead, Minister, you're here to blame what was wrong and what your MPs did when they were in opposition, and what about that and what the other people - they don't care, Mr Minister - you tell us what you're going to do now, what you're going to do about putting an agenda on the labour authorities, that you're going to run another and more. These people just can't take it anymore. That you just manage the budget so that people wait over a month for benefits. Then they send me your unified answer to Messenger, where you say it's not our fault you didn't get the benefit because the president put the veto on the budget amendment in 2022. What's that? How do you manage the finances, how do you manage the state? You're supposed to expect this to happen to you. You're supposed to count on the president to give the veto. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement.]] This is to be taken into account throughout the budgetary procedure, and that is simply not what is happening. You make excuses for the president. You didn't have any money, logically. I've been telling you since spring, since you guys approved your first budget cut, you're not gonna have any money. You didn't, and you ended up at 375 billion deficits. And you're still making excuses for the President. You were talking about the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. Oh, well, yes, we still have, thank God. Thanks to our government's policy, thanks to the Antivirus program, thanks to the compensation bonus. Yes, you raised your hand for him, a large part of the opposition at the time. I admit it here and thank you again. But these were precisely the steps that kept the lowest unemployment in the European Union, one of the last economic benefits this country has. I pray it lasts for the future. When I see the survey of the Association of Exporters, the surveys of the Chamber of Commerce, which shows how many companies it wants to release, I am of course not happy about it. Although I admit it doesn't have to be about all the fields. But it doesn't matter. These people can and will get to the job market. So, please, since you're plotting the government of Andrej Babiš so badly, which actually is valid for people after a year of your reign today... is not valid in any way, I will not give any proverbs, so please rather not be caught at the word, so please focus on what we have done well. 'Cause I think you're taking advantage of it today. And that's how it should be. [[11.10 hours]] If you were normally communicating with us, if you were talking to us, if you were discussing things with us, and not always kicking your ankles and fingering yourself, how well you do it, how you manage the finances and so on. You říditn't drive. And believe me, after four years, I can see into it, and I just know what kind of trouble you're in. Who else would understand that than me? Because I've been in big trouble, too, and I understand that you're in big trouble. But unlike you, we didn't win the election here with what you promised people, and you continue the rhetoric. Read the National Budget Board report and so on. Well, you were talking about women on maternity leave. In order not to just shame you, I will commend one sentence to you, and that you said that family support is crucial to the people's population, parental support. Well, I believe you'll be able to explain it to the Minister of Finance Stanjur, who has said something else in public space so far. It was our government that raised the parental allowance from 220 to 300,000. I don't remember, I didn't take it out now, I think you voted for it. Why not? That was the right move. Then we added, I think it was Aleš Juchelka, you've been so defensive about what he's done for it. He did a lot. He was very cooperative with us, with our government. He was very dating with various stimuli, and we listened to him. We were there when it was multiple births and so on, so of course the money was raised there. It's bearing fruit. Since 2021, there has been an increase, not to say some dramatic, but to a slight increase in the birth rate, which has been quite stagnating in the previous years. Moreover, and you know this well as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, you must know, and our parental contribution is extremely flexible. Mommy's gonna make her own decision. That means, please leave it to the women. Leave it to them. They themselves know which one wants to be with the child for a long time that wants to go to work. The question is, if he goes to work, if conditions are created. We tried. We tried. We've increased the kindergarten subsidy programs, the ring around here in the Central Bohemia Region, and I could name another one. Our former Education Minister Robert Plaga fought very hard for it and we used to have x different clashes when I acknowledged his arguments and, of course, within the government, we were dealing with it. Children's groups and so on. We tried. Of course, this is never-ending work. It doesn't help people here if they did it better or if they did it worse. This is where it helps people to get where we're going. We've moved on, and you're supposed to keep doing it. That would be valuable what you would say here, Minister. If you say yes, there was something here, and now I'm gonna pick it up and go on and on and on and on. The fact that you chastise here - you've spoken for almost an hour or 45 minutes, I haven't measured it, you're just defaming the government of Andrej Babiš, that really doesn't bring you any points in those people today after a year of government. So we have a flexible parental contribution. That mommy can be home as she plans. Of course, the amount - then she chooses it based on how she planned her parents. And to talk about a shortening - and the finance minister didn't talk here, and then he started to moderate it, because apparently you guys said it wasn't the right move in the government, so he started to moderate it, and he said: I wasn't talking about the reduction, I was actually thinking about it so that the moms could get back into the work process quickly. Well, let them handle it. And if he wants to bring them back to work, then let's create enough infrastructure for the moms. We had research, we worked with the polls, and Jana Maláčová came up with it, what the mothers need most, like college girls, so it's the care of the children. And often, to pay for a nanny, that's just not the answer. So that was the road we were trying to figure out. We've dealt with it, of course, covid, I'm not making excuses, but you should keep doing it, not just defaming our government that she just didn't do it or that. Well, I don't trust the Treasury Secretary, he's not here, so I can't ask him. He's not usually here when I want to ask him a question. But I want to be sure - I don't believe he didn't think when he talked about parental contributions, it is also in the Nerv recommendations that he didn't mean shortening it. And that would be a very bad step. I'd rather expect you here, because you said a few months ago in public space that a parental contribution, maybe I'll just say it inexactly, should valorize. So I would expect you to come out here today to take the so-called wind off our sails, and say, "I'm gonna get the government to valorize the parental allowance by so much and so much." I don't like you suggesting $400,000 there, I'd be about - I don't know, I'll leave that up to you, I won't put any stuff in your mouth - but I'll push it through, and it'll be then. Even this parliamentary proposal by Aleš Juchelka and spol can be the carrier if we cooperate. and it can be corrected by amendments. Why not? But I didn't hear that. Instead, I heard what we did wrong, what didn't work, how letters were written. Yes, because it was just Andrej Babiš who solved the problems. Well, you were talking about Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. So let's put it in context, please. I'll start with Hungarian. What are you blaming me for? We came up with 12 measures in the spring to deal with this crisis. Item number 9, you will find it anywhere on the networks, item number 9 - ceiling prices on fuel to CZK 36 in the form of a reduction in VAT or excise duty. In the end, you reduced the excise duty by a total marginal amount that no one noticed, but you went partly by our recommendation. I repeat: 36 crowns. What's the average fuel price now? 38, mean, well, somewhere is like that, somewhere. Yes, the Maďar made 28 crowns, I'm sure they cut it. We weren't talking about 28 crowns either. We have 36 crowns in traceable resources. And we said, for a limited time, until the swings are even. So we're laughing here - you're laughing, we're not. You mock Hungary, which, although, yes, underestimated the amount, do not have a distribution network like we ČEPRO and so on, did not compensate importers. I understand all that. On the other hand, Hungary has been helping its people for three quarters of a year. You guys were just talking about it. And our people paid up to 50 kroner per liter. So what? But let's look at other numbers. You have now chosen Hungary to be in trouble. You're so happy about this. I don't. I don't want Hungary. But let's look at the decline in real wages. You know that, Minister. Almost 10 percent. It'll be next year again. But there is no decline in real wages in Hungary. There I read from the last data that it is expected to increase around 3%. So let's not rip one out. Then you say Poland. I suppose you meant the criticism of zero VAT on food, because I don't know what else you'd criticize so crucial. You can see that Poland has now extended it to basic foods. And, of course, it's a journey. Why do our citizens go to Poland to buy food? But worst of all, they go to Austria, they go to Germany, where there is a completely different purchasing power. It doesn't bother me, as they say in Brno. So these countries are trying. And you say at the expense of debt. Well, it - I remember you standing here as an opposition politician, and here you are, looking for a nice look, here you were just criticizing me and reading me letters from entrepreneurs. I don't consider it at all, I've been interested in the cases. You said it wasn't enough that they couldn't survive. But we tried. And now I hear different reactions when I go among people. I hear thanks. Thanks from the restaurant owners, from the tradesmen that thanks to you then small compensation, for us simply within some state budget possibilities, that they simply survived it thanks to them. And the question is, will they survive if your government's policies survive? [[11.20 hours]] Otherwise for - notabene you as former Minister of Agriculture, and I think that this is a field that you really understand, I say this without irony, with respect, so you certainly know that we have one of the highest VAT in the European Union for food in the Czech Republic, 15%. If not zero, why not ten, why not five? And I'm not saying everyone, basic. It was just the debate. So that's what we are... so you've destroyed Poland here, too. Let's go to Slovakia. That's what you named third, 1,500 crowns per megawatt hour. Do you remember the one where we listened? This Slovakia has nothing there, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Finance Minister, I don't know if I want you, now I don't realize how we're just setting Slovakia as an example here. We said: but they have a political memorandum closed. The memorandum is not a piece of paper, the memorandum is something. That was some kind of deal he's gonna make from January 1st. How do you explain to the citizens that we have 6,000, they have 1,500 crowns? I'm talking about energy. So that's really something I absolutely, absolutely don't understand. And I don't understand your arguments either. I've been waiting for you today, and thank you for that, President Výborný, for asking you to come. Thank you for coming. That's fair enough for you to be here, hear our arguments, react to them. I'm sure that's good. I wish all your government colleagues would take an example of this. Make me appreciate something. But I expected you to just say, yes, parental contribution is a priority for us people - that's what you said - that's why I'm going to do this, this, this. Until then. Now I don't want to do it that way, that's why, and that's why. Because people are watching us. People write me every day for a parent's allowance. Every day. Or you say-- so you talk about the care allowance, so you say yes, we do this and this. You were talking about the employment offices, so that's where I got it, like this. Instead, we heard what they were going to do, what Andrej Babiš did wrong, what our government did wrong, how Mr. Juchelka should have done eight times more slowly. Finally, we listened to the example of Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. Yes, we do. Yes, we do. Because he's trying to do something for these people. When I thought about it, I was going to make some speeches - which now they've taken on their own, I'm just talking, I'm totally responding to you, so what I had prepared, at this point, I didn't say anyway. But there was one thing going on in my head. I belong to a generation that remembers a lot too. And when I hear Prime Minister Fiala's favorite sentence, as he says we're not gonna let anyone fall over and over again, we're not gonna let anyone fall, so it reminded me today of a very legendary statement by then - and maybe you too, what you already give it a plus or minus at an age like me, remember the statement of the former Prague mayor of the Němec. Do you remember when it was just before the floods, before the thousand-year water, as he said: I would say that Prague is not threatened, the situation, I would say, exceedingly excellent? He said that in August 2002 on the banks of the Vltava river, and a little later, unfortunately, I say this with great sadness in my heart, Prague flooded thousands of years of water. It was unbelievable. I see, I see the connection and the donkey bridge in that the phrase Petr Fiala is very similar in a lot. The only difference I see is that the water in Prague was just rolling, but the Prime Minister repeats the sentence at a time when he is already knee-deep in the water. That's the big difference. And you're the five-calice government. That means you're the Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. And I'd expect you to put pressure on that government. You know, I've been here a lot - you've been talking about Jana Maláčová. And I -- it was a known thing, publicly known that I was with her very often at work... not to say conflict, but a work dispute. I dealt with her very often, arranged things, I disagreed. Of course, I was the Secretary of Finance, it's logical, she was the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. It was logical that she wanted everything. Because not in vain, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is called the Ministry of Expenditure. So we often just got into a work dispute. Our legendary budget debates - because I actually had a debate with those ministers about the budget, I didn't say how your finance minister thought it was a government matter. No, it's a matter for the Treasury Secretary to negotiate, then the government approves, doesn't approve, and so on. So I've been talking to her for hours about these things and, of course, I've been internally humanly angry. I mean, I'm only human, too. I'm not a machine. And today, with the distance of that one year, I'm going to tell you one thing. Whatever Jana Maláčová was, we can have different opinions about her, I won't criticize her here, she's not here to defend herself, but she fought for it by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. She fought for them. That's what I'm saying today after a year, at a distance, with my new work experience, which is very valuable to me and what I've been through and what I see now from those opposition benches when I look at your work. She fought for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. She's done it in a picky way sometimes, she's chosen the means that I wouldn't vote for, but that's a matter of taste. But she was visible and everyone knew she was fighting for them. Sometimes it was successful, sometimes less. I don't see that in you, Minister. No, I don't. Sometimes I wonder - I don't want to touch you or insult you in any way, that's not my style. Sometimes I wonder, what is it? I read your statements, I don't understand them. I do not understand them because I do not understand how the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs can make such statements. I don't know if it's because you're still running the Department of the Environment right now, which I understand is just some kind of deal. Probably in a way, or at least in a machine shop, it's said that you're a big help with the administration of the Department of Agriculture. Finally, the survey was interesting, last week on Prima TV, when several citizens on question, who is the Minister of Agriculture, marked you - in 2022. That tells itself. But anyway, you don't fight for people. You don't fight for the idea that the People's Party has always claimed to be families, seniors, pensioners, socially needed... children, thank you, children. It's just not today. Today, this country and this government do not have a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to fight for these things. And who else has one but you? You're just the silent minister for me right now. Silence towards those you should defend. And sometimes you'd lose, I understand. That's what politics is about. So it was during our reign, sometimes I won, sometimes I lost, I always tried to find a compromise to move on. But I can't hear you. And then, logically, these people feel, and we have to give them the feeling that the only person who fights for them and who tries to make problems, points out problems, and thereby puts pressure on you is the opposition. And I promise them we'll never stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u17	Then another application is registered by Vice-President Richterová with priority rights. [[A note from the diaper.]] I can't make a real point, I'm sorry. We do not have an approved agenda for the meeting, so only the priority rights are applied for by Mrs Richterová, for which Minister Jurečka is registered. And then you'd be... I can't. You'd still have to deal with Minister Jurečka, and I'll be benevolence myself. Okay, so Chairman Excellent has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u18	Madam Vice-President, thank you for your benevolence, it will be very quick, but I want to respond. I have to respond. Thank you for your enormous interest in our folklore program for parents and families. As we have heard here, you are very impressed, Madam President, through the Vice-President. I'm actually glad. And we'll be happy if you support all the priorities of our folk and government program, too. That's great. But I must say that your care and care sounds very hypocritical from the mouth of the one who has been here for three and a half years - three and a half years! - the teeth of the fingernails prevented us from adding $500 to Moms, as Secretary of Finance. We have presented it here, just us today, the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister and others, at least three or four times, and with the support of your coalition partner, and you were the one who threw pitchforks into it for three and a half years, and at the end, of course, before the election, it was supported and approved. So please, this is a really big hypocrisy. But what bothers me, I respect, I acknowledge the commentary of the performance, you can have a different perspective on it, that's all right. But what you said in the end, that's a total lie! That the Minister would not fight for families, parents, seniors, handicapped, I think everyone in this House knows. So please, don't tell these lies here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u19	And now, in turn, Vice-President Richterová, and before I give her my word, I will make one more apology. Mrs Bělohlávková apologizes at 14:00 for work reasons. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u20	Thank you very much for your word. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. I will definitely start positive because I want to appreciate one award that has been made here, and that Mr Juchelka appreciated the course of the digitization of benefits. What didn't say a little bit was that it was a thing that was missing here for years, that it was something that hadn't happened in the last few years of past governments. On the other hand, I am sorry, and President Výborný has already responded to this, as if almost every social problem in this country had just begun here in October or November 2021. That's really nonsense. Just as it is nonsense that the representatives of today's opposition are the only ones who notice what's happening. That's total - I'd almost like to say self-deception. Personally, I've been doing this area for years, and I care about it a lot, and that's why I care about telling the truth here. And I would like to draw attention to three or four things that I think the public should know. The first may be a seeming trifle, but during his speech, Mr Juchelka said something in style: mine is this extraordinary meeting of the House. I'm gonna say it one more time - mine. And it's not like that at all. Meetings The Houses here are the citizens of this country, they are here to find a solution, they are not for any of the Members, they are simply for us to deal with important matters here in the interests of the people. Since it's not one man or one woman show, it's just space for us to work together, and I wish it were going well, so I want to draw attention to the other of the untruths I've noticed in the previous posts. President Schillerová emphasized freedom of choice, it sounded nice - leave it to the women, she said. But let us remember what the reality for the YES movement looked like when the vote on parental contribution was taking place in November 2019. There was a proposal not only by me, the pirate, but also by Mr Kaňkovský, today by President Pekarová Adamová or Vice-President Kovářová. It was a proposal concerning the regular automatic valorisation of the parental contribution, and we wanted a debate, I suggested a specific valorisation formula that did not have to please everyone, but it was simply a specific proposal that would take into account the inflation of the parental contribution. Why do I say that? There was no debate about the automatic valorisation mechanism, although I would have liked it very much, and the proposal, which would simply mean taking into account inflation in the parental contribution, was simply rejected in the 239th vote on 6 November 2019. It was totally unanimous on your part. And maybe some of you are sorry today, I don't know how you personally have it, everyone can track it down, it was the 35th meeting of 239 votes, but it's black and white. And the second thing that may be even more flagrant is that you didn't want to debate at the time and you clearly rejected the basic thing as much as the increase in the monthly limit on the parental contribution. I don't want to be technical, I just want to remind you that this is something that we as a government have raised very promptly to the possible 13,000 a month, and then in November 2019, it was also my amendment at the time, I submitted an increase to the limit of 10,000 a month, especially because of women who had children during studies or because of tradesmen, for the sake of the self-employed. And now why it's so important. Because by accepting the YES movement very negatively at the time, by the way, as well as almost the entire CSSD, it actually expressed itself against the freedom of choice of those women. Madam President here today said, "Leave it to the women," but then the vote, when you were in the government, when you had the opportunity to increase that freedom and flexibility, you were clearly and unambiguously in that 241st vote at the 35th meeting against. So I'll just say that, of course, so that it doesn't look so negative, so it was mostly delayed, but that's also a NO in practice, which doesn't contribute to the adoption. That's when it ended with a bit of a happy ending, because this limit went up, so it gave the families the freedom. I was very glad that others supported it then, but when the words "let it be women" are heard today, I fully support it, but it just sounds from my point of view as you often remember double standards. And the third example, it's the labor authorities. Please, I think that all those who are involved in this area know that the employment authorities have been having problems for a long time. Just at random, for example, at the beginning of 2018, we were discussing hours and hours of waiting at some specific branches, and we were also discussing this on the Social Policy Committee, where, if memory does not deceive me, I also initiated the entire resolution on the unhappy situation, because I wanted us to deal with it together and systemicly. That was 2018, January. Why am I stressing this? Since then, the difficulties have simply been repeated, the problems have accumulated, and perhaps many of you know the saying about fish and head. It's just when problems are systemic, you have to think about it. I'll just remind you what the Minister said, what were the rewards for the workers on the direct line, for the workers on the bulkheads, for those whose work I think everyone appreciates, but simply when the problems of a certain office are repeated, there is a need for a more systematic solution. That certainly hasn't happened in years past. And the last, fourth thing, where I think it is necessary to put it right, in substance, is that there was talk of rising drug prices in a letter read by Mr Juchelka. I would just like to draw attention to those who, for example, watch this transmission, that the person who pays for the prescription - I stress on the recipe - spends more than the legal limit, so he gets the money back. So just please don't let it haunt you, keep an eye on your claim to get your money back. It could be a problem for people who don't have a bank account, or mostly seniors, to just pick up a bill, because insurance companies send it to them. [[11.40 hours]] So these would be comments about not telling the truth here, so that those who are in opposition today please remember what their actions were when they were in government. And I believe that we will be able to work together, for example, in the multiannual funding of social services, which will require an amendment to the Social Services Act. It's something where at last this year's social services know what they're up to. Or, for example, what Minister Jurečka also mentioned in the Act on Children's Groups and Neighborhood Babysitting. That will be my last comment today. I'm just proud that we're doing this thing together in the government that helps families with children because it's something where we have preschool-care debts. It's a topic formerly called Tagesmutter following the pattern of German-speaking countries where it has worked for years. I believe we can make this neighborhood babysitter work together. It matters very much to me, especially to women, but not only to them, to have as much freedom of choice as possible. And I wish these issues were as consensual as possible here. But given the way this extraordinary meeting has been held, I am afraid that unfortunately, and I am sorry, most of all, it seems that the ANO movement is simply effectively using its famous double standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u21	I have the last application with priority rights from Minister Jurečka. The minister cancels his application. I'm gonna ask if anyone else is still checking in before approving the draft program? I don't see anyone. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm gonna sing. I'm picking up the check-out request. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I'll reengage so that my colleagues have enough time to come to the O.R. Looks like the number of entries has settled down. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered by 141 Members, for 64, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Yes, please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Just a little while longer. You have sent a clear message, a clear Christmas gift to families, needy, socially vulnerable, that you will simply not discuss their problems on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. That, too, is your political stance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Okamura. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[Big noise in the hall. In the right side of the hall, Members are slowly leaving.]] I ask for peace in the hall so that the speaker can speak again! Colleagues, please remain calm in the hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u24	Petr Fiala's five-wheeler government has just refused to help disabled citizens, who have increased service prices, refused to support families with children, refused to support working families. Well, then you've given a really beautiful gift - a beautiful gift in quotation marks - for Christmas and for the new year. You are simply an antisocial government that thinks only of itself, does not think of our citizens. And we will, of course, continue to fight for the necessary and decent citizens in the Czech Republic for the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-15-ps2021-049-01-000-000.u25	I don't see another logged in. I therefore note that the agenda for the meeting has not been approved. I'm done with the 49th meeting. I remind you that tomorrow, Friday, December 16th, the 48th session will continue at 9 o'clock. Thank you for your cooperation today and goodbye.
