ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I remind you that even at 17 o'clock a meeting was convened, 37th, and at 17.30 a 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was convened. I am now opening the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to rejoin your identification cards and, if necessary, to tell me who is applying for a replacement card, as Mrs Pastuchová has already done, who will be voting with card number 40 today. I called this meeting following Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which I declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday, September 13th of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we appoint a Member of Milada Voborská and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková. And I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anybody checking in. I shall therefore begin voting on the verifiers of this meeting. [[Who's in?]] Who's against it? In vote number one, 104 were registered, for 100, against none. I am therefore of the opinion that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Milada Voborská and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková, as verifiers of the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I hereby declare that until the beginning of the meeting, the whole of the meeting, the whole of the meeting, the whole of the meeting, the Růžička of the meeting, the Pavel of the meeting, the whole of the meeting Horák, the Olšáková of the meeting Eliška, the Marie of the meeting day, Metnar whole of the Nováková Zborovský, the Šimek of the David Jana, pražák Josef from the whole of the Ivo Ratiborský for medical Marek, the Šimon of the Urbanová Barbora, the Bělor of the meeting day, the Jaroslav of the meeting day, the Wenzl of the meeting day, the Heller of the meeting day, the Bernard of the meeting day, the whole of the meeting day, the Potůčková of the meeting Lucie, the Balaštíková of the meeting Margita, the whole of the meeting Patrik, the Nacher of the Berkovcová Jaroslav, the Dvořák of the hearing day, the Milan of the hearing day, the period of the Golasowská period, the period of the hearing day, the whole of the Tureček Karel, the whole of the working Jaroslav, the whole of the period, the period of the sitting day, the Bžoch of the period, the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period of the hearing, the sitting, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the sitting, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the sitting, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the sitting, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the hearing, Faltýnek the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of From the members of the government apologize: Balaš Vladimír from 17 o'clock for working reasons, Bartoš Ivan from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Černochová Jana from the whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day for working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít from the whole day for working reasons and Šalomoun Michal from the whole day for personal reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, on 13 September, by my decision number 37, on the basis of the Government's proposal, I declared a legislative emergency until 12 October of this year. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House press, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a shortened hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 265/1991 Coll., on the competence of the authorities of the Czech Republic in the field of prices, as amended, House press 302. [[Energy law]] By decision number 38, I decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing, and I ordered the House Press 302 to the Economic Committee to discuss it and set it an unstoppable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 10:30 a.m. today. - Ladies and gentlemen, I would first ask you to keep your voice down. - The House press 302 is already part of the proposal for the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to inform you that the Government, in connection with the announcement of the state of legislative emergency on 14 September of this year, requested that the following House press, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, should also be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, House press 306. By decision number 40, I decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing, and I ordered the House Press 306 to the Budget Committee to discuss it and set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of the resolution until 10:30 a.m. today as well. Dear colleagues and colleagues, pursuant to § 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am therefore opening up a debate on this. I do not see anyone registered for the debate, which is why I am ending it and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to keep your voice down. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. I said, who's in? Who's against it? The number 2 vote includes 147 Members and Members, for 139, against none. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and we have confirmed the state of legislative emergency. [[11.10 hours]] We will now proceed to the draft agenda of the 39th meeting, as stated on the invitation. First, let me introduce you to the proposal on which today's grémium agreed. We propose to include a new item in the proposal for a programme, namely the House Press 306, the Government Bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, submitted in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, and discuss it as the first item of the meeting. At the same time, we propose to discuss both points, the laws in the shortened negotiations, so that we first discuss both at second reading and then at third reading. That's all on my side. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] So now I ask whether there is an interest in speaking on the draft agenda? Really, coworkers and colleagues, please keep it down. I do not see anyone reporting, which is why we will now vote on the whole proposal for the 39th session of the Chamber of Deputies, as it has been tabled in writing and modified by the decision of the Gremium, which I just mentioned. I therefore initiate the vote on the agenda submitted, as proposed and recommended by the Gremia. Please, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 3 registered 149 present, for 146, against none. The draft programme has been approved. Before discussing the Government's bill amending Act No.353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, i.e. the House's Press 306, in a shortened hearing, we would, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening up to this debate. I don't see anyone logged in, which is why I am ending the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, House press 306, in a shortened hearing. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 4 registered 149 present, for 143, against none. The motion has been approved. So I'm opening the point now.
