ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-004-132.u1	132. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies I hereby open it and I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor. Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-004-132.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Thank you for listening to the electoral committee's proposal to put this one point here today. It's really fast, there won't be any secret elections, it's just a vote and a statement of change in the House of Deputies' bodies, so I'll keep you for a very short period of time. On this point, I recapitulate that the electoral commission has announced a deadline of 6 September until 12 o'clock. She received only one proposal from the Pirates and Mayors, which is an exchange and addition within the framework of thevora, which belongs to this very member club in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. The electoral committee sat down yesterday on 6 September and adopted resolution 71 on this, so the 24-hour deadline is fulfilled. Now we can vote a point, and I will quickly refer to the contents of resolution 71 as proposed by the amendments: resignation from the inspection committee of Mr Martin Hájek, from the Committee on Science, Education, Culture and Youth, Ms Michaela Šebelová and from the agricultural committee Mr Lukáš Vlček, in all cases the Pirates and the Mayor's club. New nominations to the Audit Committee Michaela Šebelová, to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Petr Gazdík, to the Agricultural Committee Martin Hájek, to the Constitutional and Legal Petr Gazdík and to the Foreign Committee Jarmila Levko. Here, too, all the designs are within the Pirates and Mayors Club. This item can always be carried out under the Rules of Procedure only with the approval of the Chamber of Deputies and the Election Commission proposes a public vote as established or as we are used to, two votes - one to decide on resignations and then another to vote on nominations. Now, Madam President, I ask you to open a debate on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-004-132.u3	Yes, thank you. I am opening a debate in which I do not have one. If this is still the case, I am done with the debate. May I have the final word if you're interested, Mr. Chairman? It's not like that. I call on a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. There's an interest in checking out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm asking you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. And once the number of entries is settled, we will first vote on the resignations as presented by the President of the Election Commission, the first vote and the second vote will be decided on the elections. The number of people present has settled. I am opening the vote on the motion to resign in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 35 registered 139 present, for 138, against no one. The motion was accepted. So I am now opening the second vote, which we will decide on the elections, as the President of the Election Commission has said. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 36 132 are registered and all 132 are also in favour. The proposal was therefore accepted. So I'm saying we've dealt with both points. I thank the President of the Election Commission and conclude on this point. We're going back to the point that's interrupted, that's point number.
