ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u1	37. Government bill amending Act No. 78/2004 Coll., on the Management of Genetically Modified Organisms and Genetic Products, as amended /German Printing 43/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister for the Environment, Mrs Anna Hubáčková. I'll ask the Minister to take the floor. At the same time, I will also ask the rapporteur to take up positions which are intended for both the appellants and the rapporteur. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u2	Hello. Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, the Government is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Management of Genetically Modified Organisms and Genetic Products, as amended...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, and I'm going to ask everyone to remain calm in the courtroom. If there's anything you need to do, please go to the lobby. I'll wait until the House really quiets down. I do not want to appoint individual Members at this time. Thank you very much. When you go to the speaker's desk, you'll all want you to have peace so that you can speak properly. Thank you. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u4	Thank you. The draft law was approved by the Government on 25 October 2021 by Resolution 918. The draft law was prepared to ensure the transposition of Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, which was carried out in the framework of a wider amendment to selected EU food law legislation in June 2019 by Regulation 2019/1381 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transparency and sustainability of the EU's risk assessment in the food chain. The implementation of the updated directive should have been implemented by 27 March 2001, when that amendment regulation entered into force. The aim of that amending Regulation is to increase the transparency of the risk assessment carried out in the framework of food and feed safety. To this end, so-called standard data formats are introduced to contribute to the effective processing of applications assessed by the European Food Safety Authority. In this context, the form of standard data formats has also been introduced into the Directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment so that the relevant documents, processed for the purpose of assessing genetically modified organisms used as food and feed, or as raw materials or preparations for their production, are presented in a uniform form. Another area that has been changed in the Directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment is the legislation on the protection of information which the GMO operator is obliged to submit in the context of the relevant authorisation processes and whose publication could harm it in the context of competitive relations. The amendment to the Act responds to those amendments to the Directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment as follows: The possibility of submitting relevant applications in the form of standard data formats is added, and the provisions relating to the protection of selected data contained in the relevant applications for authorisation for the management of genetically modified organisms, both in terms of their definition of related procedural issues and of their own protection regime, are hereby adapted. On the basis of the authorisation of the Minister of Justice and the President of the Legislative Council of the Government, since this submitted material is identical to the material which was already approved by the Government in 2020, except for one legislative technical amendment in the proposal itself and a few repairs in the rest of the material. The proposal is tabled again because it has no longer been able to be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies in its 8th parliamentary term, where it was submitted as a House press 1021. The proposed amendment, in the same wording, went through a proper inter-ministerial commentary procedure in 2020. Let me briefly sum up the process. Only one crucial point was made to the material by the Ministry of the Interior. This comment was not about its own normative text, but the explanatory note, and was accepted. The draft law was also partly modified on the basis of the comments which were mostly of a formal nature. This proposal was submitted to the government without conflict. The draft law was subsequently discussed by the Working Committee of the Government Legislative Council on Administrative Law. The Commission has made a number of recommendations which were intended to clarify the provisions selected. These comments were reflected in the draft amendments contained in the opinion on the draft law which was drawn up from the level of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government. The Ministry of the Environment has identified these modifications. This is, once again, a clear transposition of European law, and I would like to ask you to discuss the draft law at first reading and its commandments to the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u5	Thank you to the Minister of the Environment Anna Hubáčková for the presentation of the proposed proposal. I would now like the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr David Pražák, to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Good almost noon, ladies and gentlemen. The legislation on the treatment of genetically modified organisms, both at Union and national level, distinguishes three ways of such treatment. The first is the contained handling of genetically modified organisms, which means any activity involving genetic modification of organisms or in which GMOs are used in any way, grown, stored and so on in a closed area and which involves adequate measures to secure this restricted area from leakage of genetically modified organisms into the external environment. The second is the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment for purposes other than placing them on the market, which means the deliberate introduction of genetically modified organisms into the environment, in which no specific containment measures are applied to prevent their contact with the environment, that is to say, it is the use of GMOs in which their deliberate introduction outside the enclosed space occurs, but for other than commercial purposes. [[11.50 hours]] The third is the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms and products containing them, which means the supply or transfer of genetically modified organisms or genetic products to another person, whether for payment or free of charge, with the exception of handing them over exclusively for the purposes of the contained management of such genetically modified organisms or their introduction into the environment by the person authorised to do so. In the Czech Republic, authorisation for the handling of genetically modified organisms is obtained either in the notification or authorisation regime. On the basis of the notification, authorisation for the contained management of genetically modified organisms is established which has been included in I. or II. on the basis of an assessment of its risk. the risk category. This means that only negligible or low risks of its harmful effects are associated with it, and therefore the security requirements of the enclosed space are less stringent. Person who intends to dispose of genetically modified organisms I. or II. the category of risk to operate, is obliged to make a notification to the Ministry of the Environment before starting it. For closed handling, which was classified in III for its high risk profile in terms of the effects of harmful effects. or IV. the risk category, as well as the introduction of genetically modified organisms into the environment, requires authorisation from the Ministry of the Environment. As regards the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms and genetic products, it is necessary to distinguish between genetically modified food and feed or other genetically modified and genetic products. In the case of GMO food and feed, applications for authorisation to place them on the market are accepted by the Ministry of Agriculture under Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended. Under Law No. 78/2004 Sb. only applications for the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms and genetic products different from genetically modified food and feed to be placed on the market for the first time in the Czech Republic. Then the application procedure is led by the Ministry of Environment and the marketing authorisation is based on registration in the List of Marketing. The list for marketing and registration shall be carried out by the Ministry of Environment. The necessity of the proposed legislation is determined by the obligation to ensure the implementation of the abovementioned Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2019/1381. Although it is directly applicable due to its legal form, it also amends certain articles of Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, the transposition of which is ensured by the relevant provisions of Law No. 78/2004 Sb. The proposed legislation is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. The adoption of the proposed legislation is a necessary condition for the fulfilment of the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from the implementing Regulation 2019/1381 of the European Parliament and of the Council, or for ensuring an adequate transposition of the amendment to Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The proposed legislation is presented solely in order to ensure proper implementation of the relevant European Union rules. I hereby thank you for your attention and for your input into the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u7	I thank the rapporteur for the introductory words on this government bill. I am opening a general debate which I do not see any application for at the moment. I'm gonna ask if anyone else is still applying from place to the general debate? Yes, Madam Secretary of the Environment. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u8	Thank you very much. I'll follow up on my report. Since the deadline for the transposition of this law expired on 27 March 2021 and it is indeed a transposition of de facto European forms, if I were to simplify it, I would like to ask for a reduction in the deadline for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies Committee to 30 days. The law is designed only for the environmental committee, so please consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u9	Thank you. There's a proposal to shorten the time to 30 days. At this point, if no one else is reporting to the general debate, I am ending the general debate. There was therefore a proposal to shorten the period to 30 days, there was no motion to return or refuse, so at this point the Chamber of Deputies will address the motion for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we must decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By its decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee. At this point, I'm asking, is anyone suggesting the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? If this is not the case, we will vote on this proposal. I'm registering everyone's checkout. So I'll check you all out. I'll go on a couple of times. I'll ask all of you to sign up with your ID cards. I will wait until the number of Members has settled. I'm gonna go on one last time. Now I would like to take the liberty of taking a vote. This is Mr. Babka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I just think... I'm not quite sure in the debate he can ask the Minister to shorten the time limits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u11	So at this point, I am going to ask for the opinion of the legislation. At this point, I have been informed that Mr Jurečka, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, has signed up with priority law. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I would therefore like to propose that this be a procedural and procedural right, to shorten the deadline for discussing this press in committees for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u13	At this point, Minister, I am returning - because the general debate has already been concluded, the proposal must be given in the general debate - so at this moment I am saying that we are going back to the general debate by your speech. I'm asking if anyone is applying to the general debate at this time? Would someone please report to the general debate? Vice-President Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u14	I will follow up with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka and repeat the proposal. We are making a motion to shorten the time limit for discussion to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u15	Thank you. So, at this point, we have again the proposal that has been made by the Member, as it is in the Rules of Procedure, to shorten the time to discuss this proposal to 30 days. I am once again saying that this proposal has been made here, and we have to deal with the proposal that I have already announced here, and that is that the President of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed by his decision to order the proposal tabled to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee. There was no other proposal for a guarantee committee from the dime, so at this point, we will proceed to the vote. At the same time, I note that I have ended the general debate. We will take the vote on the proposal that I will read. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee? Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, who agrees with it, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. At this point, I note that 157 Members were enrolled in the 70 vote, 156 was in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I hereby state that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. [[12.00 hours]] The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? I don't see anyone. At this point, we will therefore have to deal with the proposal made by Jan Bartošek here, which is to shorten the committee's time of discussion to 30 days, so at this point we will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Whoever opposes this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. In voting number 71, 157 Members were enrolled, for it was 84, against it was 16. The motion was accepted. I hereby state that the period will be reduced to 30 days for discussion on the guarantee committee. With this we have dealt with all the proposals, I conclude the discussion of this point and at the same time pass the proceedings on to my colleague Jan Skopečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-003-037.u16	Good noon, colleagues and colleagues. Let's continue with the point.
