ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I am opening the second day of the 31st session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to re-engage with your identification cards, or to tell me who you're asking to issue a replacement card. I Róbert declare that the Teleky of such proceedings has been Petr by the following Members from the Šimon on which the pokorný Jermanová Ladislav, from the Voborská Barbora on Urbanová the Berkovcová Kasal place, from the David on which the Ivan Mádlová place, from the Ratiborský on which the Pavla Havel Matěj, from the Karel on Bauer the Jan Nacher placeIvana from the Šimek David Fischerová which the Golasowská Michal based, from the Milada Michaela on which the Věra Mračková based, from the date on which the hearing was based, from the Lesenská on Vladimíra the Romana was based, from the date on Pavel the hearing was held, from the date on which the Dostálová was KláraDufek from the Krutáková on which the Jana was Hájek, Tureček the Karel on which the hearing was Havlíček, from the Martin Marie on which the Jana was Klíma, from the Josef on which the hearing was Marek. Vondrák Ivo all day - working reasons, Wenzl Milan all day - medical reasons, Zlínský Vladimír all day for health reasons. Here we are: Mrs Eva Decroix from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek for foreign travel from the whole day of the meeting. Today they apologize to the members of the government: Balaš Vladimír from the whole day of the hearing due to foreign travel, for the same reason Minister Baxa Martin, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole day of the hearing for work reasons, Jurečka Marian from the Ivan day of the hearing for Bartoš of foreign travel, as well as for reasons of foreign travel, Minister Kupka, Minister Langšádlová Helena apologizes until 14.15 for working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk for the whole day due to foreign travel, Stanjura Zbyněk for the whole day due to foreign travel and for the same reason also Minister Vlastimil Válek for the whole day of the hearing. I would remind you that this meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore the approved programme cannot be extended. [[It is noisy in the hall, there are noisy groups of debating Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to keep your voice down. In case you have anything else to deal with, please move your conversations to the foyer. Once again, I'm asking you to lower your voice and move your conversations into the lobby. So now we will continue to discuss the interrupted ninth point, it is the House press 199
