ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (veterinary Act), as amended, and other related Laws /German Press 72/ - Second Reading Zdeněk Nekula, Minister of Agriculture, shall state the proposal submitted for the applicants. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, allow me to reiterate the Government's amendment to Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care. The main objective of the bill is to respond to the regulation of the European Parliament...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u3	I'm sorry, Minister. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. I repeat, once again, I ask for peace. If you have any serious conversations, please move them into the foyer - even unserious, of course. Thank you very much. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u4	... and the Council of 2016/429 of 9 March 2016 on animal diseases and amending and repealing certain animal health acts which are effective from 21 April 2021. This Regulation builds on the existing European legislation on animal health and constitutes a general legal framework which will be progressively completed by the adoption of implementing regulations. [[9.50 hours]] Another aim of the bill is to complete the implementation of the regulation on official controls, which was the subject of the last amendment to the veterinary law. In addition to the adaptation of those Regulations, the draft law also complies with the rules of the Central Register of Dogs and lays down the related obligations of dogs and private veterinarians, abolishes the obligation of the breeder keeping the hives, immediately after the detection of the mortality of the hives at the sites of the hives to report mortality above the established limit of the Regional Veterinary Administration, and the obligation to require a veterinary certificate to move the hives outside the territory of the region, which will contribute to a reduction of administrative burden. The draft law also includes, for example, an amendment to the breeding law, which takes into account the requirements of Union regulations. The draft law was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 8th meeting on 5 May 2022 and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government's draft law as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted have been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and are in line with the translator's concept, will contribute to improving the government's bill, and I therefore agree with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee, the committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 72/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I'll allow myself to read my apologies. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes, today from 9.30 to 10.30 for working reasons, and we also have an apology from Minister Vít Rakušan for today's meeting from 9 to 11.30 for working reasons. And now you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u6	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, allow me to inform you, as rapporteur for the agricultural committee, of the amendment to the veterinary legislation. I'll follow up on the minister. During the discussion of the agricultural committee, some amendments were also discussed with which the committee agreed, with the fact that these are in particular technical matters which complemented the already prepared version which was passed by the government. I would like to inform you, at this point, that other amendments have also come in, I assume that they are justified and applied to by colleagues who have proposed them, who have come in after the discussion on the Committee on Agriculture. So one of them, I'd like to say, if I can outrun it, I'm logged in later in the general debate, so I'd like to take advantage of the fact that I'm already here, and I'd like to inform you that I've entered the system under number 956 of the amendment that concerns Central Dog Records. [[He's turning to the chair.]] This amendment was drawn up in connection with some issues that appeared in the dog register or Central dog register. I took the liberty of making such an informal meeting after the meeting of the agricultural committee, where representatives of the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians were, because the Chamber will lead this system of central records, there were representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Veterinary Administration, the Ministry of the Interior and non-profit organizations, from shelters where we finally agreed that the request for municipalities to enter the dog register - because when you find a dog within your community, it is necessary to identify it - so this amendment was drafted, it was agreed and I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u7	Thank you. I ask you to take the floor at the rapporteur's table and I am now opening a general debate to which Members have come forward, the first is Mr Pražák, and the rapporteur, Mr Bělobrádek, will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u8	Good morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long. I would just like to comment on the draft amendment to the veterinary law. What the rapporteur, Mrs Bělobrádek, said through Madam President, is true, I would like to thank him fair and squarely for calling up the meeting that was at the beginning of this week, because we have opened up a question on the agricultural committee concerning the Central Recording of Dogs, in the spirit of whether the authorities will be able to enter the system so that they can actually find out in practice the owner of the dog that will be read by a reader. We were told on the committee that it would not be possible because the system would be more expensive, cost a lot more money, and this will be managed by the Veterinary Chamber, but in agreement with the working group that was on Tuesday, I would say that the Ministry of the Interior assured us that it would go without any additional costs and it would go through the integration system of shared services, or through the web interface and through the systems that are already there, only there will be a slight adjustment, which I am glad. All I have to say about this - I'm a little surprised that there will be dog vaccination in the system, because, as I said on the committee and elsewhere, I think it will be a little time-consuming for the veterinarians, and the veterinarian will, of course, have to pay for it, he won't do it for free, so I'd like to say here that the costs that it will incur when it comes to registering, when it enters the system, will be paid by the breeder. So someone doesn't think it's gonna be paid in a different way. There was one other thing that I think needs to be mentioned, that it's going to be a little bit complicated to flip the existing system into the new one, because it's going to be a new one, as the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians told us, it's going to be a little bit complicated - not that it's not going to happen, but it's going to be a little bit complicated and it's probably going to take a little bit of a while, it's not going to be from one day to the next, so I think it's going to be a certain degree of tolerance to make it all happen, to erase some duplicate things, and to pair it up with a permanent breeder's residence. I think it's about this. Then I would just like to say that we have yet to open up the issue of regulating the number of pieces at home - that is what Mr Kott will comment on - and we have tabled an amendment which we have already tabled on the Committee on Agriculture. Unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that the State Veterinary Administration does not know the concept of a livestock unit, so we have yet to correct it and I think it is communicated in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture that there should be no problem with it, and in the system a colleague will read it and present it. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u9	Thank you, Member, and Mr Bělobrádek is now in office and Mr Kott will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I will just add to the previous speaker that, in the amendment to which I apply, it is stated that the information system of central records is not publicly accessible, but has access to it by a public authority in order to look into it in connection with the exercise of its competence. This means that the municipalities will also be able to enter it, as he said, and I thank him for supplementing it. That's actually what the municipalities get when they identify the data that's going to be there. As for the tilting and vaccination, it also has to do with the so-called pet passports, which are already in charge of the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians, or the privacy of veterinarians, so, of course, we will have to prepare for a certain degree of patience during the tipping and, of course, prepare breeders for the fact that this central record will be financed by them for a large part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kott is now signed in, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I have taken the liberty, after consulting the State Veterinary Administration, to prepare an amendment to domestic slaughters with my colleague Pražák. The amendment is very simple, I dare to justify it here. This is essentially the fact that, as regards domestic slaughter of bovine animals under 72 months of age, the breeder may slaughter no more than three pieces per year. The reasoning is also very simple. The proposal aims to ensure better handling and control of animal by-products arising from domestic slaughters. Furthermore, the proposal seeks to increase the safety of food produced in the Czech Republic. There has been a significant increase in domestic slaughter in recent years, which is not enough to physically control the official veterinarian. Products from these slaughters are increasingly being sold into the market network. In doing so, meat processors have sufficient slaughter capacity to ensure basically 100% of the health safety of the meat obtained with official veterinary control for slaughterers. The current setting of domestic slaughters in the Czech Republic results in a significant increase in illegal meat sales. Now, let me take a little comment. In the veterinary law, basically, until now, when slaughtering bovine animals under 72 months of age, there was no restrictive part, which means that veterinarians themselves say, as I said in the statement, that they are not able to capacit all domestic slaughters, that there is an uncontrollable increase in slaughtered bovine animals under 72 months of age. And given that the support for this amendment has been expressed itself, I do not want to say to small farmers, but also farmers who do not have such extensive herds, so I think that this amendment is a step in the right direction and that we should basically put the quality and number of slaughtered pieces under control of all agricultural operators, with the fact that the control to be carried out, I think, also in the light of the promise that the veterinary law will be reopened in the following period, so that we can expand the persons who will be able and will be able to carry out controls on other schools. It will not only be a veterinary faculty, but since we know that an accredited field will be opened at the Czech University, focusing on the veterinary itself, so that qualified workers will also be leaving here in the future, who will be able to ensure the quality of meat and products subsequently delivered to the Czech market in the course of checks. This is in brief the justification for the amendment by my colleague and my colleague Pražák, and I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Margita Balaštíková is now registered. Mr. Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u14	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Firstly, I would like to thank my colleague Bělobrádek, through Madam President, and my colleague Kotta, for the amendments, because they really complement what is lacking in the veterinary law. And I just want to make it clear to those who feel that the Ministry of Agriculture will then invest quite a lot of money in a system that will record dogs, that a large group of people have actually been working on it, and I have to say that most of the colleagues who processed this were working groups above this law here, they were from the ODS, from the KDU, so it's actually their job. And that's where we actually agreed that the system would cost quite a lot of money. In no way was it possible for breeders to finance it, of course, because the cost of keeping such records is not an entirely small matter. However, in the end, it was agreed that we would make the system at least as robust as to meet the needs of the market - both breeders and police, and possibly municipalities - and offered the possibility of registration precisely with the fact that the propagation plants, running dogs are really multiplying and it is actually not possible to identify the real owner. Of course, the state will continue to contribute some amount to the system, but the operation of such a server is, of course, challenging. So I, too, warn of some amendments that would modify this and try to reduce the systematicity of the operation or the robustness, because there were really big discussions. Colleagues have been working on this for almost five years. I would like those breeders who really have everything okay, their breedings to have, for example, breeding with a certificate of origin, so that it can finally be realized that this is where the unfair breeding part was penalized, better traceable, and that we can get the records under control. So I just wanted to explain that the system is okay now. In fact, we agreed on this group together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Veterinary Administration to reduce the system to robustness, because the first amounts announced by the State Veterinary Administration to state this system were completely unacceptable by the Minister, but now it is in a system where I think it will meet future needs for the record of dogs. So, please, it's just an explanation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u15	Thank you, Madame. Mr Petr Bendl is now signed in and Mr Karel Tureček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u16	Good day, Minister, colleagues. First of all, I am glad that we finally got to work and that the living atmosphere around politics has dropped a little bit, that we are finally doing something that is really useful. The great ambition of this bill was to meet the shortcomings of the previous amendment, which did not adequately address the register or Central registration of dogs. There were a lot of registers. It allowed the villains to circumvent the principle and allowed them to continue their unfair activities as regards the breeding of dogs in breeding plants. This proposal actually concludes this journey. [[10.10 hours]] I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Ministry of Agriculture very much, but also the Ministry of the Interior, that in the end there was a way to simply enable municipalities to obtain information from the Central Register, or the rapporteur's proposal leads to this. We are very supportive of this because we remain with the low-cost needs of Central Recording while fulfilling what we didn't see very well there, and this was to enable especially municipalities who are responsible for things related to the registration of dogs so that they could enter Central records, which will make it easier to find owners - both those who do not break anything, only the dog ran somewhere and they are not able to find it, as well as individual shelters, to work better through the municipalities, and we could track down both the owner and possibly solve things further about the lost dog. A really big thank you. Then I wanted to mention one thing that appeared at the end of a few days before the second reading, and that is chipping laboratory dogs, because we were confronted with a part of the public that alerted us to the fact that somewhere in Spain there was some abuse of the system and that they were worried when the compulsory chipping of laboratory dogs was cancelled, that there might be a circumvention of the law and things might be happening that are not quite right. We've had so little time for this. I want to make a public promise on the microphone that we're gonna use the time before another bill comes that opens the Animal Abuse Protection Act so we can focus more on this issue. And at this point, I do not think that this has happened in the Czech Republic, but for better assurance of us, but also to the public, we should give it some debate and discuss it with experts from the public, and possibly with those laboratories, in order to find as sensitive a way of working with those involved as possible, with laboratory dogs. So we did not have time to make an amendment, but I promise that we will and will address this issue at the earliest opportunity, because we will have time to discuss it with experts, or we will correct it so that nothing really can happen and, at the same time, we will behave towards animals as sensitive as possible. Colleague Kott here mentioned defeat. At first reading, I pointed out that I would very much like us to allow the legal standard to be defeated on farms. In cooperation with the administration of the State Veterinary Administration, we have done a workshop, if I may call it that, in the field with the peasants, to look for a way to allow livestock farmers who do not have to be slaughtered and used so that they do not have to drive particularly cattle far away. The transfer is complicated, dangerous, and costs quite significant resources at the same time. We have found a way for the State Veterinary Administration to do this without having to interfere with the main legislation of the veterinary law. It will be resolved by a sub-legal standard, with the State Veterinary Administration's rules already published how to do this in order to allow for slaughter on farms, which I think will help not only reduce the costs of individual breeders who do not have enough funds to establish their own slaughter, but thus use the capacity of the slaughters that exist for complying with all hygiene and other standards, which I also want to thank, so we do not have to interfere with this bill. And I will, for a short time - then I will just sign up in a detailed debate on my amendments that I am making. One of the amendments concerns the purchase of sheep's tail. You, who have been here in the last parliamentary term, know that we have put a ban on the veterinary law on the possibility of buying sheep with rubber, in an unbloody way, and practice has shown that it is very complicated for the animals to live, because, especially in more hairy sheep, the hygiene of the rear parts is getting significantly worse, flies lay eggs in it, and the animals often end in a tragic way, very suffering, precisely because it is not possible to maintain hygiene in such animals. My amendment leads to the possibility, within seven days of birth, to put the rubber band on its tail and remove the tail with this bloodless method so that the life of sheep can be improved in the future. I also suggest - more or less it is kind of tightening up, but at the same time I think it is going in the right direction, it already has a number of European countries west of us - to release the possibility of castration of males under eight weeks of age in cattle, sheep, goats or rabbits without numbness. Under the proposed legislation, there is no restriction on the ability to castrate the male if it is necessary from a breeding or other point of view, but to limit the possibility of carrying out these methods in older animals without numbness. The ability to castrate young males without anesthesia at an early age remains preserved, but does not prevent local numbness from being used as it has been practiced in many other countries of Europe over the long term. Painful procedures or procedures that can be expected to be painful should be performed after induced anaesthesia. That is my second amendment. And the third - although I am aware that much has already been done in this, the question is how do we talk about this before the third reading at the agricultural committee - this proposal also concerns adding to the definition of animal shelter that it is a facility that provides care for abused animals, because shelters normally carry out this activity. The question is whether to expand it or whether it is already included in the amendments that come from the Ministry of Agriculture. That's all on my side. Once again, I thank all those who actively participated in the work of the veterinary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u17	děkovat you, Mr Member, and Mr Josef Kott will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm very brief on Petr Bendl's colleague. I'm glad that we've been able to sort out a matter that deals with the slaughters on farms. Given what he said here, I support the fact that, of course, an animal that is defeated without a stress factor, that the meat is of course better, and, on the other hand, as he well mentioned here, the spare capacity in the slaughters makes it possible for this animal to be properly processed. And the important thing there is what I was talking about is that these animals will get under veterinary control. So I'm glad that the seminar took place here, with a practical view, and that things that weren't quite clear, both the breeders and the veterinary administration managed to bring things together. So thanks for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u19	děkovat you, Mr President, and Mr Karel Tureček is now duly registered and Mrs Monika Oborná will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to think about this submitted veterinary law in general. Of course, from the point of view of national legislation, perhaps the most important four such basic headings are what the amendment brings. It is, of course, the care of animal health, the prevention and spread of diseases and other diseases of animals and their control, the protection of people's health against diseases communicable from animals to humans and, last but not least, the protection of the territory of the Czech Republic from the introduction of diseases and diseases communicable from animals to humans and from the import of ill animal products and feed. Of course, the entry of the Czech Republic into the European Union has extended the veterinary law to include such two basic headings, namely trade, trade in animals, their relocation, whether within the Member States or non-Member States, of course includes trade in animal products and other veterinary goods within the Member States of the European Union. Last but not least, the import and transit of those commodities from third countries into the territory of the European Union. Furthermore, as far as the veterinary law is concerned - this has brought about a new age - the veterinary law has also expanded to include the basic circuit, which is most widely perceived by the public, and this is the breeding of pets, animals. It's just the time that extended the contents of the veterinary law. I just want to point out, of course, particularly with regard to Mr Kott's amendments, that it is a good thing that we are trying to include and expand the issue of domestic slaughter in this amendment, and I would like the Ministry of Agriculture to identify with Mr Kott's amendment. I would like to stress that, without realizing it today, of course, the rise in food prices is, at this point, a very fundamental topic for all the inhabitants of the Czech Republic, whether it is plant commodities, which, of course, from the logic of the matter, have responded to the price pressure, to demand speculation much faster, but also, of course, to animal products, and of course, it is already being treated by the veterinary law itself. I mean, of course, given that the government is not responding to helping the people with the food money that occurred here after the reign of Mr.Petr Fiala, part of the population will, of course, resort and return to breeding, to increase the breeding of small livestock and livestock, and at that time, of course, there will be an increase in the percentage of domestic slaughter of all types of livestock. So in this, I think it's going to be the population's response to today's times when food prices are increasing, and of course, here again, the importance of growing and breeding within individual families will increase. So I guess that's what it's for. I would like this amendment to be supported both at the agricultural committee's meeting on Tuesday 21 June and at the third reading, and in this respect we will then stand overall to support or support the amendment to the veterinary law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u21	Thank you, Mrs Monika Oborná will now appear and then I have Mr Kučera's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to express myself to the veterinary law. I'll take the liberty of picking up a fellow Turkish. We're here today to discuss the veterinary law at second reading. This proposal relates to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on animal diseases in the field of animal health. The proposal also deals with specifying the competences of authorities in the field of disease prevention and control, the imposition of measures, rules on surveillance, the status of disease territory and the authorisation of derogations. The specification also concerns the relocation of animals, animal products and other veterinary goods between EU Member States, including the authorisation of exemptions. I'd like to stop by and see what the main purpose of the veterinary law is. The main purpose is undoubtedly animal health care, prevention and spread of diseases and other animal diseases and their control, protection of human health against diseases communicable from animals to humans. Why am I getting off here? I have the impression that, as part of the discussions that are being held here regarding the veterinary law, the main meaning of this legislation is a little out of the question. If this law is in the legislative process, we should discuss whether measures against the spread of diseases are appropriate and whether the protection of animals and, above all, of people in this regard is sufficient. Unfortunately, dangerous animal diseases are not avoided in the Czech Republic and the situation is not as perfect as it might seem at first sight. In 2021, there was a significant increase in outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in the Czech Republic, both in poultry and wild birds. A total of 48 outbreaks were confirmed. Following more than 10 years, poultry also confirmed low pathogenic avian influenza in 2021. The good news is that last year, despite the worsening situation in the surrounding countries, African swine fever did not occur, either in domestic pigs or in wild pigs. This remains the case that the last domestic case of this disease was recorded in 2018 for a dead wild pig. However, monitoring of African swine fever in dead and caught wild boar is still necessary. Attention must also be paid to diseases that can be transmitted by insects. In cattle, sheep and goats, cases of Q fever are sometimes indicated, and horses are subject to a flat-screen monitoring of antibodies to West Nile fever, which is rare in the Czech Republic, also in humans. Last year, out of the total number of 844 horses tested, a positive result was found in 21 horses. [[10.30 hours]] In rabbits there is also passive monitoring of tularemia, in 2021 out of a total of 34 rabbits the tularemia was confirmed in four. A dangerous parasite for humans is Trichinella, especially wild boar meat may be at risk, so a compulsory investigation of all wild pigs caught is carried out in the Czech Republic for the presence of development stages. In 2021, only two positive cases were identified in wild boar but were imported from Poland. I hope that from my speech it is clear that the risks of animal disease are not to be underestimated and that they must be taken extremely seriously. Following this, I would like to highlight the necessity of the disease fund, which is intended to support selected activities aimed at the recovery of livestock and measures and compensation for the damage caused to breeders and processors in relation to diseases in pig and poultry farms. This is a subsidy programme which has the funds of CZK 1.4 billion available for this year. For this year it has been increased after the experience of previous years and I would like to appeal here at this point to the Minister to attach the appropriate importance in the fight against diseases, but also to the disease fund in the coming years. Thank you for your attention, I thought it appropriate to give this dimension to the debate on veterinary law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u23	Thank you, Madame. And before I give the floor to Mr Kučer, I will read the apologies. For reasons of work today between 9.30 and 23.59, Mr Jan Kuchař apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Kolovratník between 11 and 12 today for reasons of work, and Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes today between 10.30 and Sorry, it is a little more complicated here, i.e. today she apologises between 10.30 and 12, for reasons of work. I hope I got that right from this apology. Mr. Michal Kučera will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u24	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I was only very short because the discussion was very rich. I would like to very much appreciate the work of the members of the Committee on Agriculture who have contributed significantly to the enlargement and improvement of the amendment, which was originally only a technical amendment, or transactions of the European Directive, so this is very positive. I would mention two things that I consider to be very important, or three. One of them is that they managed to provide access to the Central Register of Dogs by the authorities, it is clearly a positive matter and it was worked out by members of the agricultural committee that they managed to resolve, respectively, that here was the proposal for slaughter on the farm. I think it's a matter that's been discussed for a long time. However, I won't be stalling much longer, because the debate has been quite long. However, I would like to mention one thing that I consider essential and which has not been resolved, and that is precisely the answer to the question of chipping experimental dogs. We promised, or were approached, that we would try to solve it already in this novel. However, there was no qualified preparation of the amendment, or all questions were not answered from the sphere of chipping of experimental dogs. As my previous speaker, Mr Bendl, has already said here, we will address this issue in the following period and at the earliest possible opportunity, an amendment to the law, where it will be appropriate to resolve this, we will already table a qualified amendment which will address the chipping of experimental dogs, or stand up to this in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. This was the last one entered in the general debate and I ask if anyone else is reporting to the general debate. Please, Mr. Rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to ask, I understand that in some clubs you have to perform all the members of the committee and express yourself, but I don't think it's absolutely necessary, and read some statistics here. However, as a matter of fact, on the issue of contagion, I can say that the diseases have been committed to the State Veterinary Administration and its predecessors for decades. Thanks to eradication programs, it has managed to eradicate the diseases that are still in Europe. The monitoring is actually set. I see no reason why there should be any change in any way. For example, avian influenza can be very difficult to prevent because the diseases come from wild birds. That means we can't shoot them completely, so I could keep going. However, what I would like to comment on is the issue of laboratory animals or experimental animals in this case of experimental dogs. We also discussed this at a meeting that related to primary Central Dog Records. It is so that every attempt must be approved. We have the Central Animal Protection Commission here. All experiments are closely monitored, recorded and marked, which is why the amendment includes either chips or tattoos. That means, in those dogs, it's the tattoo, it's the mark. It is very unlikely that there will be any excesses. The national veterinary model shall be carried out. This means, even for those animals that have been treated, that is why animals that are needed in the Ministry of Interior or Defense facilities should not be chipped. She is labeled, just not to be chipped, because she would have to go there again by a private veterinarian, which is basically excluded. For example, for specific animals that are without pathogens, as I would say in laymanly terms, which do not have a physiological microbial profile, a normal private veterinarian cannot enter there even for technical and contagious reasons, and that they would actually cancel these things. So I think we can certainly deal with this, but I believe that the current adjustment is sufficient and that this is happening. We can certainly give a sentence that calms the public, but even for those animals of trial it is a sign, and that there would be such excesses in the territory of the Czech Republic, I think, the probability is limited to zero. And I say this as a person who deals with the protection of animals within the State Veterinary Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u27	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate? I see no one, if that is the case, I am ending the general debate. And I ask, do you want final words at this point, the draftsman or rapporteur? It's not like that. In that case, I am initiating a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. Mr Karel Smetana will be the first to speak in a detailed debate and Mr David Pražák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is set out in the system under number 831. It is an amendment that responds to the current situation on the labour market and is based on the general lack of official veterinarians. It proposes that the exercise of State veterinary supervision should also be made possible to persons who are not official veterinarians or veterinary inspectors, provided that such persons have a higher education acquired by a study in the Master's programme in the field of animal welfare and animal welfare. And they will have specialized education and will be entrusted with the supervision under the Law on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, and this person will obtain a certificate of competence following the successful completion of the examinations in accordance with § 26 para. 1 Act on the Protection of Animals against Abuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u29	Thank you. Mr David Pražák will now appear, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will be prepared. Okay, let's keep moving. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will now appear and Mr Josef Kott will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to sign up for Amendment 956 in the system. This is the Central Recording of Dogs, as I have said, with the fact that the public authority also has access, that is, this concerns the public administration itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Josef Kott, Mr Petr Bendl will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u32	Thank you for the floor. I am signing up for the amendment, which is led as House document 777. I have justified it in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u33	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, Minister, I am signing up for House document 366, 837 and 836, where there is a detailed justification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-003-004.u35	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone. In that case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. I want to ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants the final word at this point? It's not like that. Given that we have dealt with all the proposals and applications for the debate, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you. I'm opening another point. That's what it is.
