ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u1	3. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2023 /German press 315/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the submitted proposal will be given by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, whom I ask to take the floor. And the rest of you, I'm begging you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at second reading of the draft state budget for 2023. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies for having approved the basic parameters of the budget at first reading, i.e. the total revenue of CZK 1 928 billion, the total expenditure of CZK 2 223 billion and the deficit of CZK 295 million. I know you all know this, but today's discussion will be devoted mainly to the submission of amendments that cannot change these three basic parameters. I assume, according to the approved draft timetable, that we will vote on these proposals in exactly 14 days, on Wednesday, 30 November, that is, sufficient time for the Ministry of Finance to prepare an opinion on the various amendments that will be raised in today's debate. I look forward to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u3	Thank you. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was served as the House Press 315/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Josef Bernard, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I'll be short too. I will only introduce you to the decision, the resolution of the Committee on Budgets of 9 November this year. The Committee on Budgets notes that all the committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the state budget under the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 407 of 26 October and adopted their resolutions on them, with the exception of the Committee on Petitions, which discussed Chapter 309 of the Ombudsman's Office and the resolution on the chapter were not adopted. It states that the following committees have recommended that the Chamber of Deputies adopt these accompanying resolutions. The first proposal was to the Agricultural Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to further strengthen budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture during 2023 in order to finance measures implemented in the context of climate change." Secondly, a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee: 'The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government pay particular attention to the issue of the remuneration of judicial staff'. The Committee on Budgets therefore recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2023, and on the Government Draft of the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023 and with the Government Draft of the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023 according to the House of Press 315." One more point as regards Annexes 1 and 2 to this resolution - these are to reflect the approved amendments. However, I would like to make it clear here that the Committee on Budgets has not adopted any of the amendments tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u5	I thank the rapporteur, please take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I am opening up a detailed debate on the draft law presented. President Okamura, President Radim Fiala, Vice-President Kovářová, Vice-President Havlíček, applied with priority rights. Mr Okamura, who has applied first with priority rights, will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2023 at second reading and the SPD movement has not changed its mind. Like the vast majority of economists, we reject the Fialův Government's proposed budget for 2023. The reason is obvious. This budget is extremely bad. It's not just record debt at a time when the state has record revenue. The point is, the government isn't looking for savings where they're real. The point is, the government dumps money where it's useless. The SPD is rejecting the unprecedented debt of our state by the government of Petr Fiala. We are proposing to redirect the necessary expenditures to our needy citizens and entrepreneurs. The Fialův government, which promised budgetary responsibility and debt reduction before the elections, pushed for another budget deficit of CZK 295 billion, which will in fact be much higher, because the vast majority of experts agree that the collection of a new tax on extraordinary profits, the so-called windfall tax, is far from fulfilling government expectations. The government also increases public spending in the draft budget, but not to help our citizens and companies, but to help the European Union's foreign multinationals and the citizens of Ukraine. In the next three years to the next Houses of Elections, the Fialův Government wants to owe the Czech Republic a sum of CZK 1.2 trillion in record and unprecedented, which will plunge our Republic into unsolvable financial problems. The biggest problem with the Fialův government proposed by the state budget is the spending page, which is bad both structurally and in some extraordinary expenditures, whether they are weapons or probably up to 2 billion a month to support migration. The budget is so bad that there are conflicting debates about it within the government coalition as well as within individual government parties. The debate is part of democracy, but it was to be preceded last year, and the government was to come up with a proposal that it has already discussed and which, at least, is transparent, which is not. Instead, Petr Fiala's ODS government changes the proposal on the march, and no one really knows what the budget should look like. This is an extreme failure of both the Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura of ODS and the entire government and the entire government's five-calice. As I mentioned last time, perhaps the greatest crime is the government's plan to limit energy prices, when the government wants to put a price on the citizens by taking their tax money first, and then forward it to distributors and energy speculators instead of a simple solution to the producer's right-hand price cap, which is what the SPD has been proposing since spring. I've heard some vague objections that they would then buy distributors cheaply and continue to sell expensive. There is nothing easier than, together with the producers, to stop the prices of distributors, all by simple decree of the Ministry of Finance under the Price Act. Of course, all we have to do is read into the Supreme Audit Office's reports and we have hundreds of pages of reading about where it might be and should be saved, more precisely where public money is still being wasted immensely. Of course, sending billions to Ukraine, which have been begging and using Ukrainian billionaires for decades, oligarchs with the help of corrupt politicians, is also nonsense. I will just recall the official report of the European Court of Auditors, which is an advisory body of the European Union, which repeatedly mentions Ukraine as one of the most corrupt countries ever. It's a bottomless well. It doesn't even make sense to repeat other subjects here where you can save immediately, because there is simply no political will on the part of the Fialův government. For political profits, this government will always have money, but for effective aid to people who have been deprived of their own inactivity, this government simply does not want money for that, just as it simply does not want cheap energy, as this government refuses to do anything effective against inflation. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura from ODS introduced a very intuitive sentence to the media in quotation marks. According to him, little is said to be said to be losing value to the population's savings due to high inflation, which is why price growth needs to slow down. I don't know which planet Minister Stanjura is sending out signals. Inflation and Acceleration have been crushing and begging Czechs and Moravák for a year and they are full of media. We've got a lot of Wenceslas angry people here, and we from the opposition SPD have been pointing that out from the start. The Minister may have felt less talk about the depreciation of citizens' savings. This may be because a large part of Czech citizens have no savings and struggles for their bare survival. However, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister and the entire Fiala to the Government that you are not here to present topics to be discussed or not to talk about, even if you prefer to do so. Dear Minister and Ministers, you've been here since work, not from words. You're supposed to serve those who pay you. You are tunneling Czech health care and I have heard statements that people should get used to the fact that health is not free and that they should pay extra. And again, it's literally outrageous that you took 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies this year. You lied about health care to Czech citizens six months ago, and now the Minister of Válek has already released information on the introduction of a double standard of health on the air, which means worse for the poorer and better for the rich. It's outrageous! It is truly outrageous what your government is doing to decent and working Czech citizens! And as we sit here, I would like to point out that citizens are paying for us - they pay us as we are here, they pay this Fialův government, they also pay health insurance, whether directly or through corporate taxes or through extreme taxation of goods on the shops counters, through everything that the state, i.e. the Purple government, often extremely high taxes. All the money on health insurance accounts is money from the pockets of citizens and companies, nothing came from Mars, but not from Brussels. Nobody gets anything for free. Our grandparents, our parents, and we pay throughout our lives to ensure that we and our children receive so-called free medical care, more precisely, covered by public insurance. And even those payments for state insured people that Petr Fiala's government cut off socially this year, making health care available to our citizens worse, are paid out of our taxes. You in the government may have easy access - or certainly - to medical care easily available, but ordinary citizens are waiting for specialized treatments for many months. Five months is also waiting for procedures that last a few minutes in quotation marks, and you are completely one and health care even further and further aggravate the citizens. Those who have worked or worked their whole lives have paid a lot, and it is the brunt of the insolence to send out signals that the people who feed you should still pay extra for what they overpaid their whole lives, while you give free social and health care to foreigners, economic migrants. I also warn against future problems with Ukrainian migrants. We know from insurance workers that suddenly people from Ukraine are artificially employed here, who would otherwise have to pay for commercial health insurance. In practice, it means they're reregistered into public insurance. The government praises the increasing number of Ukrajinec who are employed. There's no reason to cheer. These are often seniors and people at risk who, thanks to fake employers, have found a way to claim free health care. All of this will only start to appear in the next year and the following years, but the trend is quite obvious. And I really blame the government for keeping this information quiet, even though you also have, like the SPD, a representative in charge of the General Health Insurance Company, where many of these issues are discussed. [[12.30 hours]] Billions you're going to send to American and other armorists without any in-depth analysis of the state of our army, and especially some public political and professional discussion on the subject we want to have the army. Instead, you're operating on the percentage of GDP that we're supposed to have to send to the armory to be supposedly good allies. That says a lot. The more percent I send to American or foreign armsmen, the better I am an ally and a member of NATO? The example of such an alliance is over-debted Greece, which was primarily given a high cost of arms, when the Řek bought German and other weapons, and German and other banks willingly lent it to them, and the Řek did not even see the money because it flowed into the accounts of the armorers. I don't know how much security has helped headless arming and indebting in Greece. The Greeks have also armed them with fear of Turkey's possible aggression, but the fact is that neither arms nor NATO membership has freed them from this concern, only it has brought them to the brink of the country's economic collapse, and today the weakened Greece is on the brink of war with Turkey. The opposite example is Israel. He first made clear what kind of army he needed, and he only built it with regard to his own needs, with much of the arms production being provided for itself. He buys weapons regardless of ideology from those who offer him the best and at the best prices, and generally cooperates with everyone on his security, he doesn't care whether with the US, Russia or China. It only does what benefits its citizens, the citizens of Israel, that is, the opposite of the philosophy of the Minister of Defence, Černochová, ODS and the Fialův Government, which, on the contrary, often does that or, mostly, even what does not suit many Czech citizens, perhaps even most, at all. As well as the Czech and Greek pensioners, they did not eat up national budgets, but were wasted by irresponsible and often corrupt politicians, who pass public money to foreign arms lobbies or even energy speculators. This is the path that follows the Czech budget created by Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government. And that is the way that anyone who has common sense must refuse. Expenditure and revenue from the budget must be made as effective as possible. State administration needs to be made more efficient and cheaper at all levels. First of all, however, the budget needs to be analysed, structural parameters discussed and agreed on fundamental changes that will bring about a turnaround to the current trend of spending increases, regardless of record-growing incomes. A typical example of the government's meeting this morning was when the government here voted to establish a new monstrous office for more than a billion crowns - a digitization office that is basically only due to two pirát for being able to be in government. This office, which is supposed to have hundreds of employees, is created in a situation where the ministries have functional departments for digitization, as well as trade unions complain and wonder how it will once be so many employees, and of course these expenses are huge. So this is in a situation where it is necessary not to create new authorities, where it is necessary to optimize the administration so that it works quickly, so that it works really well, and so you establish a new monstrous office, the government of Petr Fiala. And as I say, it is rumored that the pressure that you are in such a hurry to do this now, because the pirát have failed in municipal elections, have a large decline in the number of representatives, i.e. the number of paid representatives, the so-called loose ones, so of course there is pressure within the coalition from the Pirát, because they want to suck on the newsstands, they want to suck on the public space to the maximum and as quickly as possible, to the public money, so quickly needs to create an office where they can stab their failed pirate parties so that they can have jobs and other exponents of Petr Fiala's five-police, all at the expense of the money of Czech citizens. And how would that billion be useful for, like, desperate pensioners or desperate single moms who today often have neither a daily living nor a child? But instead, you're setting up a monstrous political newsstand. The SPD is refusing this unprecedented debt to our state, which is gambling with its future. The government is not addressing the revenue side of the budget, resigning from the possibility of taxing dividends in multinational corporations operating in the Czech Republic, and also increasing expenditure on state bureaucracy for no reason instead of the necessary investigation. Members of the SPD have prepared a number of amendments to the State Budget Act. We propose to redirect the necessary expenditure of the state, including foreign, towards our needy citizens and entrepreneurs. We also propose to move expenditure from inclusion in education to support special pedagogy. We also propose a reduction in contributions to the EU, a reduction in payments to so-called solar barons, a reduction in contributions to international organisations or subsidies to non-profit organisations with a political agenda. On the contrary, the SPD proposes increasing support for working families with children, working citizens, Czech citizens, of course, we want to increase support for single parents, foster parents, seniors, disabled people. We want to increase the support of housing, Czech industry, export or Integrated Rescue System and we also want to increase the state budget reserve for combating inflation. All these amendments will gradually be presented by individual SPD MEPs who have prepared them, and several dozen of them have been tabled by the SPD. If the coalition does not approve of our proposals, then the draft state budget will not be supported by the SPD. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u7	The next priority right was President Radim Fiala, but he withdrew it, and now the President Schillerová has signed up and followed others. And I'll just announce that Mr. Bělor votes with card number 27. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond. I have, of course, expressed myself at first reading, but I have further questions about the Minister, which is also related to the fact that on Friday, in a state of legislative emergency, we are going to discuss the so-called levy... the energy law, it is a change in the energy law, but there is a levy on the ceilings that the government actually discussed last week. I could repeat a whole series of arguments here about why I disagree with the budget. I spoke yesterday to the budget amendment 2022, it's bound up, and my reservations last, and they're basically similar. Again, I would talk about the economy, the decline in consumer confidence, the great uncertainty of the future development of the Czech economy, the economic transition into some shallow process, which was confirmed by the macroeconomic prediction of the Ministry of Finance. I could talk here, just like yesterday, about inflation, which I mean now has a monthly slight drop and a spike, but of course that doesn't mean anything, the numbers are still terrifying. And even this budget is terrifying, which has actually received historical spending, continues the debt trend, and, above all, there is no tendency to address the structural deficit. But because my colleagues here want to draw attention to the problems, the shadow ministers of our shadow government want to see the problems in the various chapters, and they want to point out where they see the biggest problem, I will leave them space and use the presence of the minister. [[12.40 hours]] I therefore believe that he will also be present on Friday at the hearing of Act 335; I ask him very much here from this place to be present, because yesterday I graduated - and thank you to President Bernard of the Budget Committee for calling - an extraordinary budget committee for the bill. It was very stimulating for me, especially discussions with experts from the Ministry of Finance. I think that this is a subject that is intersecting between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, which means that there should be a finance minister here, because it is supposed to provide him with revenue for the state budget, and there really are a number of questions that I will not raise now, because it belongs on Friday, but I will only pick up some of them, I will use the presence and again I ask the Minister to come on Friday, because it will be necessary, necessary - for us, for the ANO movement, it is necessary to get answers from the political places to the questions and explanations so that we can make the right decision on how we are going to vote on this proposal, because at this point we have more than answers, and it is important. I'm sure I'll take a break on Friday before the final vote to consult. We will have to make some decisions now, and we will still have an economic committee meeting today, so I will wait for the results of the negotiations of the Economic Committee to discuss any amendments and even the position on this proposal. So I'm going to narrow my performance to this problem tonight. I've criticized from the beginning what bothers me most about the budget, and I'm focusing on that now, and that's his unrealisticity. I blamed the fact that there are around 150 billion revenue on the revenue side, which do not have a legislative basis, we do not know how they were calculated, there are no analyses, there are no economies of impact, and then, of course, I also blamed the fact that, for example, there is a hole on the expenditure side in the SFDI, where we have an approved budget and it is not covered in some part - it was more, now it is a little bit less, over 30 billion. I will now leave my colleagues, especially Vice-President of the House of Karel Havlíček, to the revenue side. I would like to ask the Minister if he would explain - because this also has to do with the Friday, it has to do with the budget, but it also has to do with the Friday - when we will discuss the 335 law in a state of legislative emergency. I repeat, from the perspective of the revenue side, I was interested in one thing that the nota bene resulted in yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. All this time, we've been talking about windfall tax, or tax on extraordinary profits, that the finance minister has consistently read it in the second reading of the tax package, and this five-calice has said so, that it is to bring together 100 billion with this levy, which is to be discussed on Friday. And when I looked at the amendment by Zbyněk Stanjura, who submitted it, there is a calculation - there are always some numbers there, we have no specific calculations, we have no RIA, economic implications, because there was no proper commentary procedure, so we don't know we can't assess the relevance of the calculations, so the government and the Ministry of Finance can also play with them here in cooperation with the MIT - and there we have an estimate of the impact of tax on unexpected profits in 2023 - there is an actual methodology, the cash methodology, so I will stick to the cash methodology, because that's what was most talked about, and that's the cash that should come together - so there's less than 85 billion at windfall tax and then there's an additional 15 billion, because in the budget is 100, it's actually such a special tax on income, 100 is there that should come together with the levy. Yes, it says here, let me be fair that it can occur - that there are interrelationships and that there may be some spillover between these revenues, but it has spilled so much that this contribution, which will be discussed by this House on Friday in a state of legislative emergency, already in its assessment, and here again we have - the calculation is about one, two, three, four - on four paragraphs is the calculation, so we here - tens of billions - always have a few paragraphs to the amendments read at second reading, now here in the bill that will be adopted in a state of legislative emergency. I'm not going to make those arguments about why there's a legislative emergency, if there's double taxation, and so on, I'm going to prepare it for Friday, because I admit that we're talking about the state budget for 2023, but this has to do with it, because we're also dealing with the revenue side. Yes, it was approved here at first reading, income - expenses, but now I have doubts about it. I've had my doubts all along, the doubt only deepens. It's juggling numbers here. So now 85, 15, yes, there may be some kind of waterfall, admits the amendment by Zbyněk Stanjura. In the material in the explanatory memorandum to Act 335, which we will receive on Friday, it is already mentioned that the expected revenue from the levy of excessive income - that is the levy we will approve on Friday - is estimated at 80 billion in 2023, that is, out of 15 we have 80. Attention, I'm reading another, last paragraph: "The impact of the levy on excessive income" - this is the levy that will be approved on Friday - "may be further negatively reflected in the cash collection of the tax on unexpected profits" - that's the windfall tax. There we are at 85, as was in the amendment by Zbyněk Stanjura. "In 2023, the entities concerned will have an obligation to back up the tax and so on, but the entities will be able to apply otherwise for advance payments" - that is true, the tax rules allow this - "depending on the development of the amount of excess income contributions. The negative impact on the tax collection on unexpected profits - that's the windfall tax - "in view of the estimated revenue of the over-income levy, it's estimated at 40 billion" - so we're from 85 to 45, but there's from 15 to 80, together it's more, so here we're just playing with tens of billions as anyone likes. And I don't know if it's true - there's no calculation to it, there are these statements, everyone can look at it, you each have the normative text and the reason message available, so you can each read these two documents that are in the House of Deputies' system, and compare how it is there. But we still learn something different every time. And I think, if it's 125, maybe the government should have taken the job, done it a little earlier, and she could have had 125 instead of 100 in her income. So it's just really honest budget work. And so that I don't forget one more thing that bothers me because I was talking about 150 billion at the beginning of my performance, and so far I've only been discussing 100, although it's probably 125 now, but quite differently, so the current draft state budget for 2023 is counting on another 50 billion crowns from the Modernization Fund. My honored colleague Richard Brabec will talk about it, so I will just touch on it to put it in a single framework, but to the 50 billion so that they can go into the chapter of the Ministry of Environment, there is also national legislation missing, we have not seen it yet, there is no notification by the European Commission, notification by the European Investment Bank. [[12.50 hours]] The Ministry of Environment's revenue is estimated at 94.3 billion today. I'm looking at Richard and he's nodding. Of this, 50 billion income from the trading of allowances designated as the source of the Modernisation Fund is. At the same time, this amount is not included in the budget of the State Environmental Fund. I will not express myself here in detail, Richard Brabec is Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, so he was directly personally present at the discussion of the budget of this chapter. There were officials, experts from the Ministry of the Environment, so he will personally tell you how environmental officials reacted, how the sum of 50 billion found itself in the budget, where, at which stage of the journey between the Ministry of Finance and the Straka Academy, I will leave it to him, because he was directly present to it, and he is an expert on this area. So it's not small, it's another 50 billion, which is on the revenue side, which is in the budget already approved by the budget, I mean in terms of revenue and expenditure, after first reading. Again, it's a trick and artificial enhancement. So you can see that tens of billions here are once so, one other way, it turns around again, spills over, then it's actually 25 billion more. I understand that there's an uncertain time, and I understand that it's complicated to count. I remember when you guys were upset about the covid's time, that we should have it for the crown. The revenue side was always on the koruna, always because we followed the calculations and macroeconomic predictions of the Ministry of Finance, if they were linked to the budget, of course. You know that I also canceled one macroeconomic prediction in terms of uncertainty at the time, but it was a prediction that had no impact on the budget - it wasn't preparing at the time - one of them that didn't affect the budget. That was screaming, Mr Hampl was upset, but he wasn't the head of the National Budget Board at the time. I was afraid something would happen to him. Everyone was screaming in some debate. We're throwing tens of billions there today, back. I have to say, the National Budget Board doesn't like it. Professor Pavel was on the Committee on Budgets and criticised this very objectively. He even talked about what I had gone through here completely generously, why revenue is also included in the budget, which is not based on the macroeconomic forecast, which was created in August just before the Ministry of Finance's budget was processed, the Minister of Finance verified it and sent it to the government to see why additional revenues were there. It shouldn't be like that. I've never done anything like that. But I generously went over that, because it's not tens of billions. So there's a lot more of these things, and it's just trying to improve the deficit that's not real, and trying to hope that it's going to turn out somehow. But it doesn't have to happen either. If this were just about our debates, our pussing with the Minister, it wouldn't be so bad, but it's about people, companies, the future of our country, because this budget will be managed by our country next year. So I believe I'll get questions. It is also important for this - I raise it here, it has to do with the revenue side - how we decide on Friday of the levy parties, which will be voted on here in a state of legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u9	Mr Haas reports with a point of fact, so the Minister will be able to wait, who has been generously released to others with preferential rights. So please, you have your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is unusual to report with fact among the priority rights, but I do mind very much if in speeches of such key persons as the chairmen of parliamentary political parties, there are obvious untruths here, moreover, untruths in such a crucial matter as the defence of the Czech Republic. I respond to the words of Mr Tomio Okamura's previous speaker, through the President. It was said here that for some subliminal manipulative reasons the government was throwing away tens of billions of crowns for buying the F-35. In this serious matter I do not really consider it correct, so here I want to stress that everyone will read the press release of the Army of the Czech Republic from 20. 7th of this year. The decision of the Government, the subsequent decision of the Government, to open negotiations with the United States of America, is based on the analysis of the Army of the Czech Republic, under which they are signed and with which they agree - I am very happy for the continuity - both the previous Chief of Staff, General Lopata, and the current Chief of Staff, General Řehka. I would like to quote one single sentence, the first sentence from the press release of the Army of the Czech Republic from 20. 7.: "The decision to address the United States on compensation for JAS-39 Gripen fighters is based on analysis of the Army of the Czech Republic." See press release from 20. 7th of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u11	Thank you. Mr Růžička is now reporting with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't understand the esteemed colleague. What kind of analysis is he talking about? I don't know, I'm a member of the Defense Committee, and what you're saying is completely new to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u13	We are therefore going back to the debate now, and, as I have already announced, Minister Stanjura will speak with priority rights. The following is Vice-President Havlíček. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u14	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Vice-President Havlíček and Vice-President Kovářová for allowing me to respond immediately to criticism, otherwise the speech by Mrs Schillerová cannot be called. I don't know what he doesn't understand and why he doesn't listen when I explain the draft state budget for 2023. In the first reading, the main criticism was that there was no way we could choose on the two measures - that is the levy from electric power producers from every megawatt hour produced and from windfall tax - 100 billion crowns. I spent eight hours here listening to questions and questioning the number of CZK 100 billion. I answered patiently and I know exactly what I said and why I said it, that's that we have two tools available, and that's the drain of power generators from every megawatt hour produced and windfall tax that these two tools complement and that depends on how we set the parameters, and according to the parameters, one will be fiscally more significant than the other. Nothing has to change about that. Those estimates, which Mrs Schillerová so questions for the revenue from both measures, were made by the expert departments of the Ministry of Finance, where I did not make any personnel changes, so they are experts who have worked at the Ministry of Finance for years, which I left behind, which I did not throw out and I did not bring any other. They did not receive any political assignment, they did not receive from me any number to put in their qualified revenue estimates, and both Deputy Minister Kouba and Deputy Director Fojtík Fojtík behind those figures that are in the two different materials but arose in a different time frame. I honestly said here that these two instruments are complementary and that I'm sure we'll collect the 100 billion. I was also saying that I consider it a conservative estimate of the Ministry of Finance, which I said, and today I will repeat that conservative means that it is rather pessimistic, that it may be chosen more. So the criticism a few weeks ago at first reading was that we wouldn't withdraw $100 billion. Snip, today's November 16th, and the criticism is no longer that we're not going to raise $100 billion, but that we may be going to pick more. Let me repeat what I say for first reading: both of these instruments are burdened with a lot of uncertainty, but the levy from the produced megawatt hour is burdened with much less fiscal uncertainty than the windfall tax levy, because there we agreed in the vast majority that we will windfall tax tax for the 2023 tax period. It is logical that there is much more uncertainty. [[13.00 hours]] If we applied one ceiling for electricity producers regardless of the source that the producer uses for production, then - I try to answer, but the Member does not care, it does not matter, I understand it, I do not question it - I repeat, if we used one ceiling for levies from a produced megawatt hour regardless of the type of source, then the lower collection of these levies, the higher the extraordinary profit, and hence the higher income from an extraordinary windfall tax, is quite simple. That's what I said at first reading, I say it at second reading, I say it in all interviews, in all media shows. Whoever wants to understand, who doesn't want to understand, doesn't understand. The government proposed - and it will be discussed on Friday - the ceilings set by source. The principle we have chosen is cost plus, that means cost plus reasonable profit. With all the key producers of electricity, we patiently conducted many weeks on a daily basis expert negotiations, when they provided the basis for a fair determination of the costs according to the type of source, and that is what happened. Therefore, we will collect more fiscally from this tool than from windfall tax. But what's in the budget still holds. What was my commitment, which I said here in the first reading, is that we will collect 100 billion crowns from both of these instruments together. This is not juggling, it is the amount supported by the expert opinions of the two sections of the Ministry of Finance. And I just said, and I insist that the parameters are related. If we fiscally increase the importance of one measure, we will fiscally reduce the impact of the other, the importance of the other measure, and vice versa. The government has agreed that, if the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, signs the President of the Republic, that is, if it goes through the entire legislative process - that the contributions will be fiscally more significant. Here, when using this instrument, all doubts about the alleged cost optimisation and tax optimization fall away. There's no optimization that can happen here. It is effective, it is fair, and that is precisely what fills the extraordinaryness of the situation - from extraordinary revenues, electricity producers, or some of the extraordinary revenues in the form of these levies, we will only use them for measures and compensation of high energy prices. This political commitment by the government is valid. You know very well that, starting on January 1, prices are valid for all households, for those who provide public services, and with some limitations for the whole sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, and at this point we are in the final stage of negotiating with our business associations about what help could be for large companies in 2023. The temporary crisis framework, what was notified yesterday in Brussels, what was launched yesterday, is help for big companies in 2022. If we come to a solution that is about to happen, the assumption is that the compensation will be higher than 100 billion, so if there is a higher yield for these two measures, it will apply again only to those compensations. And logically, until we had rules for helping big companies since 1 January - and there really is a need for a European debate, and it is under the Czech Presidency intensively - so we could not include the amount there. So I don't really understand the criticism. Three weeks ago: I'm sure you won't pick a hundred billion, today, when we chose a more fiscally confident solution, suddenly the problem is that: You will certainly choose more. At the same time, I said it would be a sum and it would be a conservative estimate. So the commitment that I made here publicly that we're going to collect 100 billion out of these two measures is going to last, and I firmly believe that we're going to keep it. Time will judge us. We can argue at the end of November, at the beginning of December, how much it will be, but in about 12 months, we will have at least the first ten months of the levy and we will know whether the estimates, the qualified ones, the Ministry of Finance, were fulfilled, whether they were realistic, pessimistic or optimistic. I don't see any problem with that. And I say, at the same time, there is no danger - I said it's not as simple as many have said, nor do I believe - that there would be any tax optimization, other than normal. If it's all legal, it's okay. If it's illegal, we have the Specialized Financial Office for Large Enterprises, the entire Financial Administration to expose such unfair and illegal practices. That's what's happening, and it's going to happen, and there's no change in that. I don't think anyone can protest that. So the basic one-- the reservation that we're not going to fill that 100 billion, you can see that, according to qualified estimates, it's realistic that we're going to withdraw that 100 billion. Maybe according to the parameters in a different ratio, but from the beginning I said it would be the sum of both instruments. The parameters were not known when we were planning or when the tax section was preparing an estimate of the windfall tax revenue. The only parameter was that there is 180 euros for all manufacturers, but at the same time the possibility at national level of that... and according to those sources, and I think that's right and that's fairer. So we could leave this concern that the 100 billion will not be chosen. If we can convince the opposition, too, and I understand from President Schillerová's statements that she is no longer concerned, that she is saying that it will be more, in fact, as far as the future deficit is concerned, it is good news. But I, but I'm sure you know that, Madam President, through Madam President, that the Ministry of Finance is more conservative in its estimates than overly optimistic in order to draw some revenue and then halfway through the year didn't know what to do when the revenue was not being paid. We have chosen this procedure, this procedure is in the draft state budget and this procedure - and I thank all the government Members - will be approved at first reading. And so I'm going back to the fact that we have approved the basic parameters of the budget. And I think the solution proposed by the government to the House, the Senate, is good. I believe that it will receive wider support than just government members or government senators and will allow us to find resources to compensate for high energy prices for all households, all self-governments, their businesses, for all those who provide public service, whether they have the character of private, public, state organisations, and all small, medium-sized entrepreneurs. And as I was saying, we're approaching a solution to help big companies in 2023. For the year 2022, we've already figured it out. This is how I thank both Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies for allowing me to respond immediately so that I can respond to the fundamental questions that have been raised from the Minister of Finance's point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u15	Thank you, I will continue to thank both the Vice-Presidents and the President, because now Mr Richtr and - Richter - will speak, and they will follow with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by thanking you all for being able to speak before the priority rights. For my serious family reasons, I'll have to leave the House immediately. So I will briefly comment on two amendments to the national budget for 2023 under 315 that I have entered into the system. On a few points, I'll comment. I can endlessly talk about how the government has opposed the energy crisis, not only to the citizens of the Czech Republic, but especially to sports organisations, associations and clubs. Of course, first of all, the price of energy hit companies and families, households, and that was what the government was supposed to do primarily. But as far as the sports environment is concerned, it was much worse that clubs do not create and can neither create long-term reserves from grant money that could be used in times worse. And so it happened that the funds they received in the second half of this year, due to the provisional they immediately used on increased energy, or sorry, in the first half of this year, they used on increased energy, and the funds that were to continue to be reflected in programmes such as maintenance and operation, we did not approve until yesterday, when the President's veto was overvoted. And that's where I'm worried if they can even drain the money and process it so that it's all right, because it's all at the last minute. And as we all know, energy is destroying this sporting environment. Although the budget for 2023 is increased by 1 863 930 424 compared to 2022, it is directed more towards investment than to the operation of clubs and associations themselves. [[13.10 hours]] The amendments reflect this consumption, but even this amount is not the one that would satisfy all the requirements of the sport environment. Once again, I could endlessly read individual clubs and their needs here. In short, I will remind you that the trend of gradually increasing revenues to sport, which everyone has been talking about for years, and only our government has gone across from it, is suddenly gone and so is the whole concept. I don't see anywhere trying to get to the level of most European Union countries in the funding of sport, where the Czech Republic has long lags behind. And I will repeat myself again, there is nothing else to come up with here but to repeat the unheard-of requests from the sports environment that energy will be destroyed for the clubs, and therefore again, as an example of the size comparable states with our Republic, which is Switzerland, which puts 30 billion into sport annually, Austria 20 billion, Hungary 25 billion and the Czech Republic for 2023 just 6.9 billion. I have two amendments. The first concerns the redistribution of funds already proposed by the budget 2023 and the second concerns an increase of 1.3 billion in this budget chapter. Operation and maintenance help sports especially with energy prices, now that sports prices have increased three to eight times more, the requirements will be at least 3 billion. The effects in sport are catastrophic, and this is not yet the peak of the crisis, because most of them will only end with ceiling tariffs. Then we'll see what happens. If I pause a little bit at the government's programming statement, when you write in a few paragraphs in the Sport chapter, how the government will take an interest in this issue and what will result - yes, most often you have the word transparency, but that unfortunately does not pay for energy. Furthermore, you have the transformation of the NSA into a functional organization that will distribute subsidies transparently. The question is how much and how much, this is essential, and this amendment primarily addresses greater political influence. Simply put, what other people are worth in court today, you're here to legalize the law. You're updating the investment programs, but which ones? I haven't been able to trace it anywhere. And again, you write: Multi-annual sports financing with your favorite "transparentally." You will ensure the duration of the subsidy programmes so that clubs and associations have a guarantee of funding, from the beginning of the year - this has been shown at the time of the commission. And so I could go on. You don't do anything that's in your programming statement that's for sport, and it's just idle talk that's been written into your statement. Here I would like to imagine the two amendments that I am signing up for in this debate and are being led under the Houses of Presses 1625 and 1626. Jan Richter, Andrej Babiš, Ondřej Babka, Roman Kubíček, Jaroslav Bžoch's amendment to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023, House print number 315, second reading, conducted in the system under House document 1625 in Chapter 362, National Sports Agency, increases the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and specific indicator Expenditure - Sports subsidies, development and promotion of sport, by an amount of 1,050 000 000 000. In Chapter 362, the National Sports Agency reduces the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and cross-cutting indicator Expenditure maintained in the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system, total - part Investment aid - total of 1 050 000 000 000. Thirdly, the corresponding parts of the bill, including the annexes, are being modified at the same time. The reason: the increase in consumer prices for the year 2023 is predicted by the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic in the amount of 8.5 %. The funds transferred in this amendment are intended to operate sports sites following significant inflation growth in current cost items, in particular the increase in electricity and gas prices. According to media information and survey of the Czech Union of Sport and the Czech municipality of Sokol, 70 percent of sports clubs will increase the price of electricity and gas by more than 200 percent in the following period. The federal sport living on contributions from members and public subsidies and grants in the Czech Republic is not prepared for the jumping increase in energy prices. Nor is it entirely impossible that, as a result of the volatile inflation of sports clubs, they would be forced to significantly limit their activities. Investment support for sport in the Czech Republic is certainly desirable, but given the current crisis situation and the threat to the very existence of sports clubs in 2023, the main task of the NSA is to preserve the existence of clubs, preserve sports activities not only for children and young people, but also the entire society is very important especially in the post-health crisis period. Firstly, in the development and promotion of sport grant challenge My club is increasing spending by 100 million, part of the development and promotion of sport grant challenge Support for sports associations increases expenditure by 350 million, part of the development and promotion of sport grant challenge Operation and maintenance increase expenditure by 500 million, part of the development of sport grant challenge Support for representation and talented youth increases expenditure by 100 million. The second amendment in the system under House document 1626 in Chapter 362, the National Sports Agency, increases the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and specific indicator Expenditure - subsidies in the field of sport, development and promotion of sport, by CZK 1.3 billion. In Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, expenditures, summary indicators Total expenditures and specific indicators Expenditures - a government budgetary reserve of CZK 1.3 billion are reduced. At the same time, the corresponding parts of the bill, including the annexes, are being modified. Reason: The proposed increase in the National Sports Agency's budget is based on an unprecedented situation where Czech sport is without sufficient funds for independent basic operation. According to the macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the average inflation rate will reach 15 percent in 2022, and the period of significantly increased inflation will continue in 2023. Inflation pressures will consist primarily of market factors and continued energy increases. In 2023, electricity prices would increase by 25 per cent per cent on average by 14 per cent. In line with the above, the average inflation rate can be expected to reach 9.5% in 2023. In addition, according to media information and survey of the Czech Union of Sport and the Czech municipality of Sokol, 70 percent of sports clubs will increase the price for electricity and gas by more than 200 percent. This will be reflected in the increase in membership contributions or rental prices to athletes, which is completely unacceptable for the period, as I mentioned in the first amendment, to the crisis. Without the help of the state, Czech sport threatens not to be able to cover energy costs. Sport is an investment in the future and must not be a necessary matter. The proposed reasonable increase in the chapter of the National Sports Agency of 1.3 billion crowns increases the budgetary security of Czech sport and prevents unacceptable situations where sports clubs, due to an unprecedented situation caused completely outside the influence of their individual clubs, would be forced to completely limit their activities. Firstly, in the development and promotion of sport grant challenge My club increases expenditure by 400 million, in the development and promotion of sport grant challenge The promotion of sports associations increases expenditure by 300 million, in the development and promotion of sport grant challenge Operation and maintenance increases expenditure by 500 million and in the development and promotion of sport grant challenge The promotion of representation and talented youth increases expenditure by 100 million. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u17	We are now returning to the parties with priority rights; Vice-President Havlíček is next, followed by Vice-President Kovářová and President Schillerová. However, I will point out that - and Minister Bartoš - I will nevertheless point out that at 13:30 we have fixed voting points, and just for information, because it is not very clear here, there is a lunch break today, as announced, within 15 hours. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Minister and honourable Members of the Government as well. I will stick to my amendment in substance, because I have said quite a lot at first reading here on the budget of 2023. My amendment concerns the Ministry of Transport, an amount of CZK 30.6 billion, which will be converted into a debt from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which is an incorrect solution from my point of view. I am responding to the National Budgetary Council, which criticises that this is an optical reduction in deficit. To say exactly the figures, the deficit of CZK 295 billion should, in our opinion, be CZK 325 billion, and it should be financed properly, as should the other expenditure associated with the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. This transfer in the final will only mean that we will be indebting the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure in the future. I quote the National Budgetary Council: 'It is not possible to give priority to achieving formally accepted deficits at the cost of knowingly unrealisticity of its content'. So much for the National Budget Board on these 30.6 billion. [[13.20 hours]] I also add to the National Budget Board: "Ignoring the basic rules and principles in budgeting will weaken parliamentary control of public finances as well as the loss of credibility of the Czech Republic on international markets. I know you don't like to hear criticism from the National Budget Council, we weren't happy when they criticized us either, you told us to listen more, so now I'm just referring to it. It is not only that the balance of the state budget is optically reduced and that it should have been 30 billion higher, but what is worse is that, as I said, the rise in the debt of state infrastructure, and unfortunately, it is not only CZK 30.7 billion, because, and I said it here last time, and on this we agree that the loan from the European Investment Bank, to which it will all be financed, is not for us to solve the budgetary problem next year, it is for long-term financing. You know, Minister, that you have negotiated there the sum of CZK 170 billion, which implies that the Ministry of Transport is most likely to put it into project form, it will draw on this loan in the coming years, which means that the same method will be followed in the following years. If we use it this way, and it can be assumed that we do, because these projects must be designed and prepared today and committed to this, then then, in 2025, the Ministry of Transport will have, to be more precise, the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, a 100 billion crown ball - I estimate, depending on what runs out by then. If you go on again, in 2027 it would be the 170, maybe 175 billion crowns, and the logical question is, what are we going to pay for, because the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Finance can be in a year, two, three, four different, and logically may have a completely different approach, but in any case I cannot imagine that in these years, which we are talking about - 2025, 2026 and so on - transport will be given what transport requires, with regard to railways, roads, highways, bypasses, on high-speed lines, on security. And we all know that these demands are growing and will increase additional resources to repay this debt. I can't imagine that the budget for the Ministry of Transport or the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure would grow this steeply, which is clearly why it will be repaid from the budget money that it will be, which means that we will make less of it in the coming years. I consider it a dangerous precedent, and I cannot imagine that it would apply to other departments, whether in industry, defence, the Ministry of Education - we simply lack resources, so borrow them and pay them back. There is no doubt that this type of project could be financed in other ministries. I remember, Minister, that you said last time that we should praise you for this, that you came up with a new solution, that you came up with a new form of funding. Nothing against the European Investment Bank, but there's really nothing to praise here, because, frankly, already in my reign, I remember that the European Investment Bank had enough money and that they were looking for similar types of projects. It's nothing special to borrow money. I admit that this may be under quite reasonable conditions, but it may not be from the European Investment Bank. More importantly, it's a loan and the loan will be repaid. In my view, it should be fair to go to the Ministry of Finance, it will end there, and logically it will enter into state debt anyway, admit a slightly larger budget, a budget deficit, and consequently will not be burdened by the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure by having to repay this. And once again, it is not just the 30 billion crowns, it is most likely a significantly higher amount in the order of 100 billion crowns, perhaps a little more. So I reject, in addition to the fact that it resembles PPP projects, because these PPP projects are on a different basis, we all know that they have to compete hard enough, we want them to be cheaper, that it would be built by ŘSD or Railway Administration. Moreover, as far as PPP projects are concerned, it's been there for twenty, thirty years, completely in the administration of the person financing it, that is, the consortium or the private partner. I'm not going to extend it anymore, you know my opinion. I will apply to the amendment that deals with this, in simple terms, so that the 30,6 billion do not end... So I'm gonna sign up, I'm sorry, it's 1615, and I'm applying to that amendment that contains what I said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u19	Thank you. With a point of fact, Minister Stanjura now wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u20	For a very short time. None of us resembles a loan to PPP projects. I don't know who, but I certainly don't. You say we owe SFDI, and as a solution you propose we owe the budget, so in any case it's on debt. And all we say is that we negotiate with the EIB conditions better than the conditions on which we sell government bonds. They know very well, if the terms are the same or worse, we'll go the way of the bond. There's a good chance they'll be better. We signed a memorandum with the EIB and the beneficiary of the loan will not be SFDI, but the Ministry of Finance. As I said last time, nothing changed, the memorandum was signed by the Vice President of the EIB, the Minister of Transport and I. The projects are prepared, the first tranche is expected to be at least EUR 1 billion in 2023, the projects are prepared, the expert level has already been evaluated for the specific projects, so we will not have a problem with drawing. But the condition is simple, the loan must be cheaper than the standard bonds for which the Czech Republic borrows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u21	In fact, the Vice-President is reporting from the scene, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u22	Thank you for the fact that I understand all that, Minister, that the Ministry of Finance is taking it, but the Ministry of Finance will transfer it to SFDI, and the important thing is who the debt will eventually go to. If it stayed at the Treasury and paid off in the usual form, I get it. By ending up on the SFDI, the SFDI will have to pay it off logically. I'm not questioning the price of the interest, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u23	The Minister wants to respond with another factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u24	Typical resortism, which I totally hate. The Czech Republic will owe. Who other than the government that's setting up the SFDI will deal with this, any government. So let's not say if the debt is on the financial side, it's fine, and if it's on the SFDI, it's a disaster. There's no such thing. We agreed that we were taking it to debt, that we had a deficit, and we agreed that we were looking for the cheapest interest rate possible. If it is formally SFDI, finance, government of the Czech Republic, it doesn't matter, the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Finance, not the SFDI will be liable to the EIB. But even if it does, what difference does it make? Let's leave the department, please. After all, this is a matter for the entire government, for the entire political representation - investment in infrastructure, it is not a matter of direction. If that's the government's priority, and that's, look what the budget is, and we're not going back to the debate that you didn't have it covered, the actions you started, the actions signed, you didn't have it covered in medium-term prospects, unfortunately, so there weren't realistic figures. When someone's talking, they're falsely accusing me of juggling. So this was a classic juggling case-- I have signed contracts, but I'm not gonna put it in that view because it went wrong. Of course, it's part of public debt, that's quite clear, but we're only talking about the amount of interest, not that we're being so naive that we think that a loan that SFDI would take, for example, doesn't manifest itself in the debt of the state. You're really underestimating us for pushing something that isn't true. So you're not worried about SFDI? The only concern we should have is that it works professionally, that investment actions are well prepared, that they compete well and that they control the quality of the buildings supplied. I share that, if we all care about this together, it is only good for the benefit of infrastructure in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u25	I beg you to follow your approach through. Vice-President Havlíček has yet to wait, because Mr kolovratník's factual comment is... He's giving her up, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u26	I understand everything, Minister. It's a department, but it's a department, especially from the Ministry of Finance. So why, if it's the way you say it is, we didn't do it the same way we did in the years before? Why didn't the Ministry of Finance take it, and why would it be repaid by the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure? We all know he's gonna have to pay for it. Of course, the state will pay for it in the finals, but even less will get the funds next year if it accumulates there to the sum of 100, 150 billion crowns. [[13.30 hours]] I already see the finance minister who's gonna put in there in the next few years for what's needed, plus to pay off this loan. In this form, we could actually finance anything. I'm sorry, I can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u27	Now, Mr Kolovratník's factual point is probably too late, but I'm leaving her here, and once we get back to discussing this point, she will be able to respond with a factual point. So now that it's 13.30, I'm interrupting item number 3, handing over the meeting's management and getting to the polls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now address the elections scheduled for 1:30 p.m. The first choice will be a proposal for changes in the composition of the House of Deputies. I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-001-003.u29	Thank you for the floor, good afternoon. There's a block of seven electoral points ahead of us. May I have your attention, please? We will vote in a few moments, and I promise I will try to guide you in the shortest possible brief way through these electoral points. The first is point number
