ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will check you out first and ask you to sign up with your ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 19th meeting. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 43 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, May 4. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Barbora Urbanová and Mr Stanislav Berkovec. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion? If this is not the case, I will be taking the liberty of taking a vote on the minutes' verifiers at the moment. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Who's against the proposal? Who abstained? 143 Members were enrolled in vote 1 and 139, no one opposed, 4 abstained. The motion was accepted. I note that we have therefore appointed the verifiers of the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Barbora Urbanová and Mr Stanislav Berkovec. At the same time, I am still announcing that all the apologies that were made at the 19th meeting are valid, we will not read them again. Only at this moment will I complete one apology. I have here an apology from today from 18.15 to the end of the day. For personal reasons, Vice-President Jan Skopeček apologizes. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 23rd meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. The proposal for this item is called Information of the Government to address the rise in food prices. I've received applications with priority rights. The first person to sign up in writing with priority rights is the President of the SPD, Tomio Okamura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, since the current government of Petr Fiala from the ODS does not address the draconian rising prices of food, energy, housing and fuel, we have called this extraordinary meeting for the opposition. But the government coalition has already announced that you will not approve of the programme so that opposition proposals cannot be discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain calm in the Chamber. I'd like to ask you if you have anything to discuss, please go to the lobby. At the moment, the chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, is speaking with priority rights. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u4	So the government coalition has already announced that you will not approve the agenda for this extraordinary meeting so that opposition proposals cannot be discussed. At the same time, the Fialův Government itself does not offer any fundamental solutions to citizens. This is a really crazy situation for citizens who have financial problems. The SPD's movement has been demanding a reduction in taxes or a reduction in energy prices, basic food and fuel prices following the model of Poland and Hungary for several months, as rocket growth in food prices and its run-in with growth in energy prices, housing costs and fuel prices constitute an extreme risk in their entirety for reducing the standard of living and quality of life of millions of Czech citizens. Many of them are actually threatening to fall into a debt or existential trap because of this. [[18.20 hours]] This situation is due to the inactivity of the Fialův Government, the loss of food self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic in basic foods that can be produced on our territory, as well as the result of the catastrophic and disadvantageous common agricultural policy of the EU for the Czech Republic. The government of Petr Fiala once again ignores this critical situation and does not address it as opposed to many surrounding European countries, which, some time ago, have reduced the value added tax on food to zero, or have reduced the prices of some basic foods. It is a case of us close to Poland and Hungary. The SPD has been drawing attention to these risks for many years, for example, we have submitted a draft law on the compulsory share of food from domestic production in commercial chains. We therefore call on the current government to adopt systemic solutions, following the model of Poland and Hungary, to reduce food prices for our citizens. The government, of course, does not bring or bring any system solutions for citizens today, which citizens will see in a very short period of time that there is no cheapening of the lives of citizens. The rise in food prices is not unexpected. Energy prices have been rising continuously since last year. Many suppliers went bankrupt last year and slowly, but inflation was certainly rising. As early as January, it was almost 10%, with energy growth much higher. Average prices for households increased by 17 per cent for electricity, for natural gas by 16 per cent, but for example Innogy increased the price of electricity by 19 per cent on average. Since last autumn, it has been clear over the sun that energy prices will spill into higher inflation and, of course, even into food price increases. Well, since last autumn, here in the House, he has most of the government coalition of Petr Fiala. The producers logically took into account extreme energy increases in their prices. According to experts, food price increases are also resounding the dramatic increase in prices of agricultural commodities from 2021. According to United Nations data, food prices increased by 28 percent year-on-year during last year, and the overall so-called food cost index has reached the highest level since 2011. In real terms it was even the highest in the history of measurement. Since last autumn, however, even then, Babišův's government has not considered dealing with any strategy or plan on the threat of expensiveness, and the new Fialův government has only wondered how to cut people's incomes, how to cut health revenues and play artificial points for budget cuts. Here I would remind you last week, when the government of Petr Fiala voted on power through the great resistance of the SPD, that it would take 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies and thus make access to health care worse for our citizens. Of course, the SPD fundamentally disagrees with that. Insolence in heaven is the claim that inflation has caused rising expenditures on pensions or, for example, salaries of health workers, teachers, soldiers or policemen and firefighters. These salaries and pensions are really below average on a European scale, and inflation has certainly not caused spending of thriving pensioners, in quotes from thriving pensioners, as seen by the government, who say that inflation is causing rising expenditure on pensions and so on, on salaries that I have said. This can only be claimed by an economic ignorant or a liar. Unfortunately, we had to get used to it by the reign of Petr Fiala. According to the latest statistics, 40 percent of employees in the Czech Republic have income that keeps them at the poverty line. They have no chance not only to save, but to pay extra expenses or even better vacations. Hundreds of thousands of people, families work honestly in the Czech Republic, but they are worse off than lying at home and taking social benefits as some of the chosen inadaptable groups. And here I would like to remind you once again that the government coalition of Petr Fiala, here about three weeks ago, rejected the SPD bill to end the abuse of unadaptable doses. Unfortunately, the inflation spiral is not over, on the contrary, because of the government's inability to grow, but the cure is certainly not when the politicians of the government coalition report to the working people that they have to humble themselves. Low salaries and pensions for our citizens certainly did not cause inflation. And if the Fialův government begs them even more, it doesn't make the bread cheaper. The price of Czech beggar wages is not significantly affected. Czech beggar wages have no significant influence on inflation and rising prices. Experts say that for the basic agricultural commodities we produce, prices may rise by 50 per cent and more in the short term. Yes, representatives of the Food Chamber say so, as well as other experts say, that food can be increased by up to 50 percent in weeks and months. And it's really incredible that this big record growth, which seems to happen here, Petr Fiala's government is refusing to deal in any way. Experts say that the agricultural commodities we produce can actually have a major crisis in terms of their prices. The state institutions claim to be handling the situation. However, no results of the Fialův Government's activities are visible, only steep increases - unlike other countries in Europe. This is an important comparison, because in other countries of Europe, in most countries of Europe, they are taking general measures. But the government of Petr Fiala stubbornly no action for all our citizens, this crucial measure, does not want to take and throw more and more citizens into existential problems with their inactivity. The biggest inflationary impulse is energy and fuel prices, and food prices are derived from that. [[18.30 hours]] We know about our dependence, including our dependence on Russian oil and natural gas, and they will not be replaced from day to day. The second factor is fertilisers, where Russia was one of the biggest suppliers. Some fertilizers were also produced in Ukraine. It could be produced by us, but we need natural gas for that. But frankly, the price of oil seems not the only cause. For example, the price of diesel 15. 2. this year, before the war in Ukraine, was 36,30 crowns, today it is about 45 crowns, so the price of diesel is thus 24 percent. The price of a barrel of oil on the same day, February 15, this year, was $96, today it costs $106.5. So the oil price is only 11 percent. Looks like an artificial prize pickup. That's what I'm saying because the government here is trying to blame us just for the pumpers' margin, but, as you can see, the problem is in the whole chain. Energy is the blood of the economy - literally, and therefore many countries, including Britain, are considering deprivatisation. Some countries, such as Mexico, even nationalized entire energy production chains. Mining, refineries, and petrol stations are state-owned there and therefore fuel is cheap and revenues from the state monopoly strengthen the state budget. On the contrary, it can afford very low taxes and thus, once again, reduces all prices in general without having to regulate them in any way. Let us support the food chain at its beginning, thus encouraging farmers to produce at (a) sufficient and (b) with reasonable costs. The other Member States of the European Union have already taken advantage of the European Commission's allowing them to support their farmers and food professionals from their own budgets compared to their usual customs. The best cure for the cost is production, including intensive agriculture. Of course, the problem is also the unfair practices of chains and their high margins. Farmers' representatives propose that a parliamentary committee be set up to monitor the Office for the Protection of Competition. He's independent, but he belongs to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It has already been discussed in the past whether the unfair practices of strings are being dealt with more or less depending on what party rules. It is, of course, a political question of who will occupy the office and whether it favours the market or its control. According to farmers, the parliamentary commission should have a supervisory function, and it should also collect initiatives on what is not working and what to put into the amendment of the law on the basis of practice. Farmers often come across the fact that their stimuli sound empty. They ask for the opportunity of Members to address directly how such measures work or do not work. As I said recently, inflation and price growth are not only a problem for food. All politicians and experts and the public should agree on its solution. It should not be a pre-election exhibition, neither government nor opposition. The solution is certainly not helicopter money, i.e. 5,000 per child, but systemic changes in many planes of the economy that start returning prices to a reasonable level. Of course, we will support the 5,000, but this is not a systemic solution to the Czech Republic's price increases. On the contrary, this is evidence of toothlessness and basically government cluelessness, because, of course, the price increase exceeds a single dose of CZK 5,000. It is systemic changes in many levels of the economy that are needed to bring prices back to a reasonable level. Unfortunately, not only in this area, Petr Fiala's government has done nothing positive for citizens, and it is literally helpless, which is felt on its wallets by all citizens of the Czech Republic. I prefer to go to Poland to buy food, where the government reduced VAT to zero, which is also suggested by the SPD for selected basic foods, and therefore it is cheaper in Poland. The Polish patriotic government works for citizens. Prime Minister Petr Fiala keeps saying that he doesn't want to do the surface solutions - and even the address solutions he has presented are basically not helping the vast majority of citizens at all. Unfortunately, this has been a miserable result for more than six months when the current government coalition has a majority here. The SPD movement brings a new law to the House, which guarantees cheaper electricity for Czech citizens and companies, and thus cheaper food production. We know how to end the energy overpriced. The aim of this law is for electricity suppliers to be able to supply electricity to consumers, natural and legal persons, solely at a price corresponding to their production costs under the so-called social tariff, or at a price fixed by the government regulation. The draft law firmly defines the obligations of persons representing the State in the bodies of energy companies with state ownership, such as CEZ, to defend the interests of the state, including the main objectives of the state's energy policy and in accordance with the care of a proper economy. The aim should, of course, be for Czech citizens, Czech companies to be able to live and work here normally. Furthermore, the SPD Act sets out State Energy Policy Instruments, which are primarily the obligation of electricity suppliers with the state's equity to supply electricity preferably and directly to its distributors in the Czech Republic at least in the amount foreseen for consumers, at a price which does not contain disproportionate profits by the corporation. In this way, the sale to the foreign market and the re-sale to the Czech Republic will be missed at a higher price, which is unfortunately the current situation due to the European Union, or the creation of a commodity exchange price abroad. In our opinion, only excess energy should be exported abroad, and that is currently due to the European Union, and unfortunately it is not because of inaction, because the government unfortunately prefers the interests of the European Union instead of the interests of our citizens and companies, so, of course, companies and citizens cannot pay off when we are being overpaid on the German foreign exchange and other richer states. At the same time, we originally have the energy that's cheap, the energy that we're exporting there. As you can see, the SPD has a specific solution, unlike the current inactive government, to help citizens at risk of high energy and food prices. The SPD has prepared changes to laws and solutions that would reduce energy prices and subsequently food prices. It is only about whether any sensible proposal will be made by the government coalition here in the House willing to listen and take good solutions, especially in a situation where the government does not offer alternative solutions, which is what all citizens see in their wallets. There's no point in saying, as the government ministers in the media say, that they're doing something when they're not doing anything at all. You introduced an umbrella, but that's... I've been looking at it, but on the opening pages, there's just a political claim that it's the past government's fault that it's the war in Ukraine, but there's no government that's offering a solution. Well, that's a real problem. I would expect a citizen to click on the first page and there will be a solution, but that's not there, it's basically just political proclamations and clicks on some pages and complex forms, so again basically nothing at all. And the citizens, as I say, will immediately feel it on their wallets. Let them click on those pages and find out that most citizens are of course not getting any help at all. It is again another proof of cluelessness, and unfortunately the government's helplessness is true, which is being paid hard by all Czech households, unlike other European countries. The question is whether the government coalition, if it has no proposals on its own, has no fundamental proposals, so whether it listens to the SPD's proposals and the opposition's and takes good solutions from us, or whether they prefer to stomp on the fact that at any cost they will not accept opposition proposals if they do not have one, the government itself does not. And of course, citizens are desperate about it. We are ready to work together immediately - I speak for the SPD, which will make life cheaper for citizens. But the ball and full responsibility for the current situation are on the side of the government. [[18.40 hours]] As we know, the Czech Republic has literally hit an inflationary shrink. Acceleration has been the biggest since 1993. Falling inflation will also damage the middle class, such as train fare will increase by 20 percent, but by about 140 percent, the economist Lukáš Kovanda pointed out. Well, logically, the government canceled the fare discounts for the most financially threatened groups, students, pensioners. Pork has increased by 25 percent in a month. A month later, it went up by 25 percent! The April inflation rate in the Czech Republic and according to economists all breathed in both the month-on-month perspective and the year-on-year overcame all expectations. Annual inflation is now 14.2%, making it the most significant since December 1993. The month-on-month dynamics of inflation are also reversible on April. The monthly inflation is 1.8 percent. But Petr Fiala's government is doing almost nothing against the price increase, and of course we must look again at the comparison with other countries of the European Union. The Czech Republic is at absolute peak in inflation. This means, once again, there is no excuse for the past government or the war in Ukraine, because it is clear here that Petr Fiala's government is simply doing it wrong, that is quite clear. In the entire history of the Czech Republic since 1993, higher intermonth dynamics have only been reported several times in January. In January, however, there is quite a regular revaluation when price lists are changed with the new year. Tax adjustments, for example in the field of excise duties, are also taking place. Both are reflected in inflation, the economist Kovanda warns. In April this year, energy, but also food, is more expensive. For example, pork has increased by almost 25 percent from March to April, as I have already said. The sugar from month to month added almost 18 percent and the flour increased by almost 22 percent. Again, I stress that farmers' representatives say that from now on, there is still going to be a 50 per cent increase in some foods. So it's basically absolutely unbearable. This situation is fully affecting the middle class, which means the vast majority of citizens of the Czech Republic, which means lower middle class, lower income class and middle class, which is obviously a capital problem. And I do not understand why the government is completely indifferent to this, and yet the arrogant government coalition sends us a message in advance without hearing our proposals for an emergency meeting convened by the opposition that it will reject the agenda without offering any solutions. Between year-on-year, the most expensive items in the housing section - electricity by about 30 percent, gas by about 44 percent, solid coal or wood fuel by 24 percent, heat and hot water by almost 18 percent. The cost of food is also dramatic, which is the subject of this meeting, such as flour. The flour adds more than 52 percent compared to last April, sugar more than 25 percent, milk almost a third. Economists say that this volatile inflation is already so strong that not only poorer levels of the population but also middle-class will be clearly signed at the standard of living. It poses a serious problem for the government, as frustration and the sense of the waste of the population will be critically enhanced in the coming months. This year, approximately 14% of inflation is to be calculated on average. The Czech National Bank will be forced to increase its basic interest rate up to 7 percent this year, meaning economist Kovanda. České dráhy will increase by a level of inflation this year, which can be between 15 and 20 percent. Economists point out that such a price would be particularly infuriating to children, students and seniors, but the government of Petr Fiala canceled the fare discount. So you're taking completely opposite steps than you need to do. The SPD movement supports the fare discount. Yes, it may seem like a non-systemic step to somebody, but I say again: it is a complete disaster if the most economically endangered groups fall into complete poverty. After all, it is a fundamental obligation for the state to take care of its own citizens, decent citizens of its own who cannot help themselves. If the proper price of the train ticket is CZK 100, these groups paid only CZK 25 for it in March, but now they pay CZK 50, and from December up to CZK 60, but it is an increase of 140 per cent in less than a year, Kovanda pointed out. According to the SPD, the short-term solution to the price increase is, and I will repeat our solutions, reducing taxes on energy and fuel and basic food, which, for example, is carried out by the patriotic governments of Poland and Hungary, while Petr Fiala's government refuses to do so. Here is a really ridiculous argument, as we have discussed here, about fuel, that the government has reduced fuel by an average crown of fifty, which the citizens will not even recognize, with the fact that the European Union is not supposed to allow the excise duty to be reduced more. So (a) you yourself admitted that the European Union is harming the Czech Republic, because when we need help from citizens, the European Union will not allow us to do so, so foreigners somewhere thousands of miles away in Brussels, who have not lived here in our lives or lived with us in Czech, decide whether or not a Czech citizen will have a better standard of living or not, when it can be done. And secondly, there's VAT that the government ministers here have withheld, which you can reduce, so it was an incredible argument. And you didn't do that, and you don't want to do that, so you're pulling money out of people's pockets for nothing. We say that the short-term solution is to reduce taxes on energy and fuel and basic food, which is carried out by the patriotic governments of Poland and Hungary, but Petr Fiala's government is not patriotic, so it prefers a dictatorship from Brussels, and it nods it. Of course, ceilinging prices is also, for example, the way of basic food, it is also the way of Poland, because rather than letting citizens fall into poverty, and it may seem like the most illogical solution, it is a solution that would prevent citizens from falling into financial poverty, because they could simply buy basic food cheaper. And again, there's room. The system solution of extreme auction is to withdraw from the EU's Green Deal, the so-called Green Deal, and the emission allowance trading system, which is once again the European Union, because they are extremely expensive for our originally cheap energy, and to stop exporting our electricity to multinational exchanges. At the same time, ČEZ should guarantee a reasonable price to Czech citizens and companies, and this is the proposal for the SPD law, which we present here in the House. But neither of these things wants to do Petr Fiala's government, because it always says: the European Union does not allow us to do so. But who cares about the European Union when it doesn't even have food and housing for basic needs? What good is such a membership when you repeat the mantra, but citizens don't eat or warm up. Then it's completely useless. And even such a government is actually useless, which cannot help its own citizens and only helps the ideology of the European Union. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure the energy and food self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. I mean the food self-sufficiency, to build it for the food and food production that can be produced in the Czech Republic. I remember this nonsense last year, when representatives of the current government five-calice, then in opposition, were literally inventing and - hopefully not vulgar - talking nonsense that Okamura and SPD here suggested that truffles or oranges, mandarins, be grown in Bohemia. They were all sitting on their ears, that's what they said on purpose. It's just such nonsense that they spit on the interests of the Czech Republic, yet nobody talked about it. We have always talked about food that can be produced in the Czech Republic, but these are the ones on which the food structure of food, which is consumed by citizens of the Czech Republic, is basically based. And you rejected the law, even our bill passed to the Senate, passed through the House once, but after the Senate returned it, then the ANO movement was scared, and the SPD remained the only party that had pointed out for several years, the whole last term, that it was necessary to build food security and self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. You've all laughed about it - the five-wheelers laughed about it, then the ANO movement got scared, and we finally got into this situation, where basically the Czech Republic doesn't have any influence on food security, on how it is here with food. But it affects the things that the government can do and I've been talking about, and that's not what the government does. [[18.50 hours]] At the same time, new blocks of nuclear power plants in Dukovany and Temelín need to be completed quickly and strategic supplies of gas and gas supply at a reasonable price from producers. Well, I didn't want to talk about it, but when I remember, somebody here was lying from the government's five-calice that the SPD was pushing for Rosatom to finish it. No one at the SPD ever said that, so it would be good to stop lying. We said we needed to make offers from everyone and evaluate the best in terms of security and strategic terms. The aim was to cut to the maximum prices, and someone from Western Europe can easily choose, which we have been saying all along. And again, somebody lied to the government, but that's kind of a lie carousel. It's going to continue because most of the time, desperation goes on to such lies and attacks and fantasies. But just the responsibility here is up to the government. Securing energy security, we're late here, and once again, the result is one of the reasons for the big problems. According to the SPD, ensuring energy and food security, cheap electricity and enough cheap energy resources and cheap food is one of the fundamental pillars of our country's sovereignty, freedom and prosperity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Now I dare to read two apologies. The first apologizes to Mr Jaroslav Dvořák from today's meeting from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons, and then apologizes to the chair of the ANO Alena Schillerová movement from 18.30 to 19.30 with the first Vice-President Jaroslav Faltýnek representing her, with the fact that I have two priority rights in writing at the moment, namely Radim Fiala and Mr Babiš, who, according to the information I have received, agreed that the first Vice-President, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, then Mr Babiš and then Radim Fiala, will be present at the moment. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Have a nice late afternoon, colleagues, government, Minister - two ministers are here. I might start by apologizing for my performance because I've been working in agriculture and food business my entire professional life, it's about 35 years outside the last eight years in politics, and I'm gonna stick to the subject and numbers, so my performance will be boring for most of you, so I apologize in advance. I think we all agree that we are currently experiencing a huge rise in food prices for our citizens. Prices are rising, of course, in all the countries of the European Union, but what is bad news that they are growing the most in our country, and let us ask ourselves why this is happening. In my opinion, and based on the experience I have in all the time I have been moving in this resort, so - and this is not at this moment the criticism of Minister Nekula, who is there for a while and even in that resort is a moment, or from this point of view for 35 years, four years in PGRLF and now a few months, so it is not a criticism of his head at this time - but unfortunately we are after entry - even before entry, but especially after joining the European Union, our governments made a lot of mistakes and, unfortunately, thanks to this, our self-sufficiency has decreased sharply especially in the production of basic foods, such as fruit, vegetables, potatoes, meat and eggs. And unfortunately, if we do not produce enough Czech quality food, we are dependent on imports at this time of crisis, and sometimes also poor quality imports. I'm not gonna talk about prices at this point, we all see that on the counters of our stores, our supermarkets. Unfortunately, today, and that is why we have initiated and convened this meeting, while the current government is talking about it, assessing it, analysing it, giving signals, but the surrounding countries have started to address these issues in particular instead of sending out signals, and are trying to compensate agricultural entrepreneurs for the increase in costs, especially energy, and to reduce the impact of the price increase on people, common consumers, including by reducing VAT, or by talking about putting margins in business chains, but I will get to that. So the aim of this meeting, even if the agenda is not approved, is at least to initiate the debate, to initiate, at least to initiate, to create a solution to the situation, and we have some topics. I would say a few words, as was actually the development of our self-sufficiency. In the new Member States of the European Union outside the old 15th, we have been entering since 2004 and later, the European Commission has been constantly promoting the extensification of agriculture in the new countries since our accession. I myself participated in many negotiations in the past with various agricultural commissioners, whether it was Cioloș and others. The simplified area payment system, called SAPSy, is currently being applied in the Czech Republic, and organic farming is also enjoying great support. On the other hand, there has been a significant decline in traditional livestock production. I have already said this: milk, pigs, poultry, including eggs, but also fruit, vegetables and other investment-intensive sectors, but also demanding human labour. Just for the record, I'm going to give you a couple of numbers. I'm not going back to 1990, it's pointless, I'm taking our accession to the Union, 2004, and 2015, it's a relatively short period of ten, eleven years. With regard to milk production, the number of dairy cows, ten years ago, or 15 years ago, we had 436 000 units, 350,000 in 2015. The biggest drama is in pigs. There were about 250,000 sows in 2004 when we entered, and 92,000 in 2015, and I fear that this year is even less. There is, of course, a similar development in laying hens, poultry, potatoes, fruit, vegetables. Unfortunately, the rapid regression of these commodities is offset by the huge increase in the old countries, the 15-year-old, who actually replaced our decline automatically, and now and over the last few years, of course, are bringing food to us. And for the record, we produce 75 litres of milk per 100 hectares in the Czech Republic and 680 litres of milk per 100 hectares in the Netherlands, 170 in Germany, 76 in Poland, or roughly as in our country. Pork meat, our production is 62 kilos per 100 hectares, in the Netherlands it is 690 kilos per 100 hectares, next to neighbors in the Federal Republic of Germany 326 kilos. We do the same for beef, although we are self-sufficient as the Czech Republic, we produce 21 kilos per 100 hectares, the Nizozemec 208 and the Němec 71 kilos. [[19.00 hours]] There is a legitimate question about what we did for this sharp decline when we were in the government, whether in the first place where the Minister of Agriculture was Marian Jurečka, then in the second, where he was Minister of Agriculture Jiří Milek and then Mirek Toman. At least we stopped the sharp drop. Somewhere even moderate growth has succeeded, but we are afraid - or I am now interpreting the opinion of farmers - that the actions of the current government can start this decline again. And I think that in this situation that we are in, whether it was a question of covid, or today the war in Ukraine and, in fact, a Europe-wide crisis that can come in food and in terms of their theoretical lack - but I will still get to that - that would be a mistake. What caused this fall in the next 15 years? Firstly, for our mutual information, that was a different level of subsidies. We, as the Czech Republic in 2004, unfortunately accepted the SAPS payment I was talking about, and we took less than 25 percent of the subsidies from European budgets than the original 15 and not 10 percent of the national subsidies in 2004 after they joined the Union. There was some plan to gradually raise it to the level of Europe, but unfortunately, this plan did not come true, and in those fifteen years we are still below, unfortunately, the average. If you take the basic figures, how much we receive as the Czech Republic today in 2022 per hectare from European Union money, not from national sources, the first is Greece, but I will not mention it, but the Netherlands EUR 393 per hectare, Belgium 365, Denmark 322, Germany 289, Italy 277, the Czech Republic 238 and the EU average is EUR 257 per hectare. But these are only the officially published European subsidies. Of course, even greater differences in national subsidies and in various other tax advantages. [[are:]] They draw it - I mean the surrounding states, Austria, Germany, those around us - through different ministries and no one in the European Union - and we have tried many times - are not willing to put it on paper, and I think that even if the current Minister of Agriculture asks for it, he will not be able to get these figures, the relevant figures, how many European and national budgets are actually getting from our neighbours, with whom we are, of course, on the single European market - and we will hope. So they are farmers, but there is, of course, very strong support for sales organisations and food professionals in the other neighbouring countries, so the current level now in 2022 of our national support, although it rose from about a billion years ago to 5 billion, and I thank you for the fact that the current government is leaving national subsidies at a level of 5 billion, so unfortunately it is still not half with the other countries around us. Another thing was the wrong allocation of funds under the CAP. Here was probably the biggest mistake, and I'm already saying it the third time today that we went to the simple payment of the SAPS, when all farmers received per hectare anyway no matter what they were doing. In Germany, for example, it was the other way around - where he grew demanding crops, vegetables, fruits, raised cows, pigs, took much more per hectare than he who only grew grain, or even cut only grass. And do you know that, even in our republic, a lot of money was directed just to mowing grass, which was nothing at all? And there wasn't enough money to support investment, livestock farming, and growing special crops. What caused this in ten, fifteen years? Well, it logically caused farmers to react to this setting by abolishing complex and often non-profitable production, especially animal production, and thus reducing our self-sufficiency. Instead, they grew cereals and oil seeds, rape, poppy seeds and other crops, and, worse, cut grass once or twice a year. Of course, the Czech Republic committed itself to our accession to these conditions, so it was impossible to change and turn the helm and cannot, of course, the EU has cleverly set it up in such a way that it is not possible. We have spent the last eight years trying to direct the support of production agriculture from European money and complementing it with national subsidies, I said that it has risen from billions to five, and hopefully in this situation the resources of the national budget will be to keep it on those five, eventually there will be some extra money. Let me say a few words about business chains. Unfortunately, past governments have enabled uncontrollable construction of business chains, and I do not say which governments - past governments, when the matter was resolved and decided - and at present, we all know that, we are among the countries with the greatest density of trade chains and with the largest area of trade chains per capita. According to statistics, 76 food will be sold in the Czech Republic through these chain stores. [[%?]] This has caused a significant reduction in the number of small independent trades, particularly in rural areas. And unfortunately, most of these chains, the vast majority, have owners in countries that want to export their food surpluses to us, and at a time when there is an excess of food at the time, they prefer food from the countries of their owners - logically - by putting a lower margin on them, and it costs less on the counter. Butter from Germany normally cost 5 to 10 crowns less than butter from the Czech Republic from domestic producers at the time of the surplus. Our law on significant market power has significantly reduced the unfair commercial practices of trade chains all the time. We discussed today at first reading about the amendment to the law on significant market power, I believe that we will get to this in the near future, perhaps tomorrow or in the next week when the House will be, my personal opinion is that, as is presented today from the government, this does not address the unfair practices of business chains. It doesn't! Interestingly, Mr Prouza, President of the Trade Union, is constantly performing on TV and says that farmers and food professionals - and in connection with the amendment to the Act on Market Power - are saying this - are great and are offended by the labelling that they are agrobarons, but let's see who we are up against. In 2020, LIDL had a turnover of 58 billion and a profit of 5.8 billion. This is opposed by farmers and food farmers with turnovers multiples, times lower. Just for the record, I said LIDL, the two were Kaufland - 56 billion, Albert - 53 billion, Tesco - 43 billion, Penny - 38 and so on. We have dealt with the law on significant market power and have, in essence, been able to adopt an amendment which has introduced more protection against unfair practices for the first time in history, and the Food Act also approved the preference of regional food in the case of purchasing state and regional establishments such as schools, hospitals and so on. So these are the main reasons why we've become inadequate in a lot of commodities, but there are more reasons. This may not be widely known information, but unlike the other countries that joined us in the European Union, the sale of agricultural land to foreign nationals has been made possible without any restriction. That was, in my view, a big mistake that has negatively affected our agriculture, because our neighbours either negotiated an exemption in the European Union to extend the ban or passed various laws that severely restricted this sale. Unfortunately, we didn't do anything. [[19.10 hours]] Another reason was the reaction of governments to various crises - where bread breaks every time there is a crisis. Where they can be helped, production survives, and where they can't be helped, logically, they end up. And at least I remember the last ten or fifteen years of a crisis in apples, milk, pigs. It was dry, and some governments were actually laughing at farmers at the time that they were trying little, and unfortunately they were just looking at the support that colleagues, their competitors, of course, received from the surrounding countries. We have tried to respond to the crises that have been. There were basically two major things or three. Of course, two dry years over the last eight years, when we secured sufficient support for all the disabled, it, I feel, was behind Marian Jurečka, and further, of course, we supported the damage caused by frost in the spring and pandemic covid. But some of us remember that, of course, that was in the last parliamentary term. With regard to any conclusions on self-sufficiency in food, I believe that our agriculture and food industry - and perhaps all of us agree on this - has great potential for its development because it achieves top breeding and production results in Europe, but sometimes in the world's top. Foodmakers produce really high quality food with very strict veterinary supervision and you know that the troubles that have been in recent years were not about Czech food, but they were food imported from Poland and... Sorry, I didn't mean to name a specific state, I'm sorry. They were food imported from abroad, from neighbouring states. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to name any particular state. The fact that we produce quality and healthy food also testifies to the location of Czech food in various competitions, for example I will at random introduce a competition organized by the prestigious Economist magazine, where our food took a great 5th place last year and for example Germany ended on 13th place, Denmark on 15th and Spain on 26. So I think we should be proud of what our farmers and food farmers produce here. And one last thing: I will, of course, mention the impact on the environment, because it does not seem logical enough to import carrots, parsleys across Europe, what we can grow here ourselves, and so burden, of course, air emissions across Europe. I will now comment on the position - or as I see it - of existing governments. Instead of wishing for us, I'm afraid it's different, and I'm afraid that time shouldn't be right for us, but it's not too late. Unfortunately, instead of continuing our work to gradually improve self-sufficiency in basic foods, it does exactly the opposite. Our government carefully prepared the Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy by 2027. For more than a year there was a transparent debate, expert discussions with all NGOs, state administration, with the academic community, and the new government threw everything into the trash and, without much debate, made changes, I think, insensitive changes, against the production of Czech food. What we see as the main problems, of course the most discussed is the increase in payment to the first hectares from 10 to 23 %. That is quite - I do not want to use the concept - completely out of order, but I have to say, in Europe, because Europe's average is 13 percent and our 23 is the most superbly. In my opinion, this step can destabilize farmers of all sizes, those who, of course, want to produce food on the soil, because they can take the land away from owners who will only benefit from it. I hope I'm wrong about this prediction, I hope I'm wrong. Furthermore, it is a senselessly high variety of subsidies for organic farming. Nothing against organic farming, but for organic farming, which is not subject to production, where the farmer does not actually have to reap anything, and thus it is possible to obtain up to CZK 30,000 per hectare with minimum worries and minimum costs. But unfortunately, these hectares are neither conventional nor organic production. I'd like to say a few more words about erosion protection. Do you know that in the last parliamentary term, the Ministry or the government has introduced anti-erosion protection to about 25 percent of arable land and very effective anti-erosion measures are set up? And it has already produced concrete results in that short period of time. Numbers - I'm sorry: in 2019 the number of erosion events - 427, which means that something went into the village somewhere, flooded roads, villages, ditches, in 2020 - 390, in 2021 - 253 erosion events. But, in my opinion, the current government does not want to double this area from 25 per cent to 50 per cent and, according to farmers' experts, it could also cause an end to the breeding of milk cows in almost all of the Highlands, because they should be prohibited from growing important crops in these fields. We could say goodbye to potatoes that are grown mainly in the Highlands, but if you don't mind bringing them back from Spain, it's pretty cool. I don't think it's good to deal with this activistly, that it's more of a professional debate and then take some decisions. I've already spoken to that market power, it's in the House today. We do not like that, unlike neighbouring states such as Germany and France, Italy, there is almost no restriction on the unfair commercial practices of chains, on the contrary, the impact of this law is introduced for farmers and food professionals, which is nowhere in Europe. And I think it's probably written by Mr. Prouza, who basically represents the business chains, but maybe I'm wrong. One more comment. I have already said this here during the debate on biofuels and renewables last week, when the whole of Europe is trying to do its utmost to reduce dependence on Russian oil and gas. Unfortunately, we are going the other way, when we say that we are not going to use biofuels, which means that we are going to replace the 5 percent with oil, and biomethane biogas is probably not the right way, either, but I hope that some expert debate on this issue will start in order to replace at least some of the gas and oil with these domestic products. The last dot before I give my opinion or our opinion on how this situation could be resolved. At present, we as the Czech Republic have one of the highest VAT rates for food within Europe, but I think we all know that. So to the specific suggestions: Reduce VAT on food. To regulate the margins of business chains for basic foods and the elimination of unfair commercial practices. We now have an opportunity for this in the law on significant market power, so hopefully we can use it. Increase the safety margin of basic food in the framework of the management of material reserves. Move forward - and this is the requirement of both farmers and the Agricultural Chambers - the validity of CAP reform. I know that the Council of Agriculture Ministers has not been able to do much so far, but I do not think that it is possible to implement a new grant policy at this time of crisis that limits food production - at this time when we feel that we can potentially have a problem with some commodities in terms of their abundance. Not to mention prices, of course. [[19.20 hours]] The new CAP should apply from 1 January 2023. The strategic plan is not yet approved today and the estimate is that it will be approved in September at the earliest. So how are our farmers going to prepare for this when they actually sow in August? Some crops are harvested in August and then there is another crop in rotational practices. I don't have the guts to have my colleague Kott here yelling at me, saying that it's rape that's going down in August. Otherwise, the pollen we all have on our car isn't rape, it's pine and conifers. So I think it's still time for that, and the debate of the representatives of the professional public with the Ministry of Agriculture is, of course, that it would be worth talking about Green Deal, about rethinking the Green Deal, because in the current situation, leaving a large area of arable land to me doesn't seem very strategic, and in addition to reducing dramatically the consumption of fertilisers and pesticides when the Czech Republic, but everyone knows that, in fact, is in the consumption of pesticides in kilos of active substances per hectare - it is on 2 kilos and Belgium has 8, Italy 8, Slovenia, Portugal, Cyprus, Spain, France, Germany, Austria, Great Britain, Ireland, Hungary, Finland - they are all in front of us in pesticide consumption multiplely, multiple times! And for fertilizers the Czech Republic is also some 110 kilos of pure nutrients per hectare, but Ireland, Malta is at 500, Luxembourg, Belgium, Slovenia, Croatia, Britain and so on and so on, Greece, France, Spain - again in front of us in the intensity of agricultural production and in the consumption of pesticides and fertilisers. When I worked agronomics in the agricultural cooperative in 1987 to 1988, the Republic's fertilizer consumption was somewhere around 200 kilos per hectare of pure nutrients. So we're away from it thank God, they don't fertilize so much, we're at 120 kilos today, but walk from 120 kilos down 30 per cent and in Ireland from 500 kilos down 30 per cent, so we understand each other at the competitive advantage, or our disadvantage, as we would turn out. And according to agricultural experts' studies, this reduction in consumption would, of course, mean a reduction in production by 20 to 30 per cent, which, in the current situation, I don't think would be entirely fine. It's all about favoring those who don't do anything. That would be a good thing to think about and support more of those farmers who produce food. And that's what I'm talking about, that's the question of payment for the first hectares, but that's what we're talking about. The Minister will bring something to the government on this matter. And the last thing I would mention is the question of marking Czech food, but there is more of a question of the Food Chamber so that we promote on the counters of Czech food, so that the customer knows clearly when it comes to the store today, so by law it is an obligation, and it was also a crazy debate in the previous election period, that the wine is actually marked as in Austria - it has the Austrian flag, it has Slovak in Slovakia and it already has Czech in Bohemia, so when I come to the store, I see that I am buying Czech wine because there is a Czech flag on the door. So that's just about my side. So I apologize for the mix of numbers and technical terms, but I have tried to stick to the subject and somehow open the debate because there are some tools that could, on the one hand, increase our self-sufficiency in the production of basic foods, while also reducing at least partially the prices on the counters for our consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, too. And the next person who is registered with priority rights is Mr. Chairman of the ANO movement, Mr. Andrej Babiš. Mr. Radim Fiala will be ready. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u8	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. Madam President, fellow Members, I hope to be able to speak now without being turned off, as happened today at the intercessions, but I understand that there are rules. I'm still applying to these interpelations, and most of my applications end at the end of the back, so I can actually talk to the Prime Minister in five weeks - I've managed - always two and one minutes. But we watched the Prime Minister's performance in amazement for an hour and a half today, and now I don't know if the Prime Minister believes it, and he's already convinced himself about the nonsense and the untruths that are falling here, and the strategy is clear. In fact, repeating the untruths means our country is overdebted. Lie! About the fact that we were quickly in debt - also a lie, because Mrs Schillerová actually issued bonds in advance on favourable terms. So one strategy is to lie and tell the truth. For example, the Prime Minister said today that he handled the refugee crisis. So a moment ago, Mayor Hřib called on the government to shut down the High School Centre and Prague's Central Station is full of Ukrainian Rom people who are there under really bad conditions. So I don't know how to handle the crisis. Covid? The Prime Minister didn't talk about it today, the Prime Minister is talking about inflation. And I really don't understand it anymore, because the Prime Minister says he has an anti-inflationary budget, which I would understand, because the first budget actually took money from people, so it's anti-inflationary. But at the same time today or yesterday came an umbrella against the cost - 100 billion. So the Prime Minister says: Here I will give 100 billion, that is not upside-down, and the evil Babišův government, which, in two years of covido, gave employers and citizens and businessmen 700 billion crowns - compared to France, Macron gave 600 billion euros, that is CZK 15,000 billion, that is three times more on the Francouz than on the Czech citizen, so that is the inflation again. So I don't really understand it anymore, and I'm completely shocked that the Prime Minister keeps saying that he's not telling the truth that these are conflicting statements that have no logic. The Prime Minister also likes to say that he arranged for Dukovany. He didn't get Dukovany! Dukovany's taken care of Havlíček! Havlíček isn't here. The Prime Minister says that he has provided for energy self-sufficiency in the European Union. That's not true either. The Prime Minister didn't find time for Macron. He's sitting next to him here at the European Council. He canceled his appointment twice. Europe's leader by 1 July. So this government keeps repeating the untruths and taking on our work. Dukovany: If we started the tender before the elections, that would be the scream of pro-government media, which, of course, won this government's election, she would scream, of course, what it is, what it is... So I don't understand, and of course I'm not complaining. I have the most monitored political program on Monday, Hi, guys, where I'm talking about this and where I'm interviewing the Prime Minister, because actually the Vice-President here turned off my microphone and I couldn't comment on it. In the speech, I tried to explain to the Prime Minister how it looks at the employment offices, how these people really don't have money, they don't get the money, and I also suggested three things that should change. But basically, the government doesn't care, they don't care about our proposals. I said: those who are entitled to the housing supplement, the housing allowance, so that they do not have to document it every quarter, so that it is once a year, so that the date of payment of benefits is uniform, so that when they have made an application for Ukrainian refugees to do so also for Czech citizens. So those were the designs. But what followed? The Prime Minister immediately attacks and says: And what have you done in your reign? Well, I can ask who did what here from 1990 to 2002, when there were two sides - ODS and CSSD. We remember the opposition treaty. And these two sides have sold our country for a little bit, that we have almost nothing, and they have also destroyed agriculture and food industry. [[19.30 hours]] So I'm fascinated by the government selling those quasi-successfuls that aren't their accomplishments. Now we have seen the celebratory tweets that the Czech Republic has become a member - or has replaced Russia - in the UN for Human Rights. Come on, everybody, just so you know - but of course the media won't write this - the Czech Republic was elected to the UN Human Rights Council in 2019 to 2021, under our government, and it was clear that this place belonged to the Eastern European group, so it was clear that it was for the Czech Republic. But the government sold it handsomely and said it. It's ours, it's ours. Well, it's not true. We set it up, and now they're gonna -- like the Minister of Transport, he's gonna cut tapes on highways and bypasses, so that's our job. But I understand that this is necessary, that our government is responsible for everything, and what we have worked for, this government has taken advantage of. I also had another interview with the Prime Minister on emission allowances. He criticized me in the CNN debate that... What did the Prime Minister say here? 26. 9. - it gets expensive and people have legitimate concerns. We want the Prime Minister, who is responsible for defending the interests of Czech citizens. So, in order not to cost energy, we need to talk about emission permits. Well, I was discussing it. I discussed this with the President in September 2021. I wrote to all the leaders, all the presidents and premieres of the European Union a letter. I repeatedly performed at the European Council, where I coordinated with the Spanish Prime Minister, so I fought for it. It's hard. I appealed to them to change the directive. The Prime Minister criticized me. Then, after the election, or after he became Prime Minister, he didn't say the word emission permit until the last time he was on his way to Poland, where he and Poland were going to enforce what we were doing before. But the biggest shock was that now, when he could - and our government could - a few weeks ago opposed the further increase in the prices of emission allowances, the price of which significantly affects the price of energy, so they didn't, the government didn't. Even the government has opposed the proposal of a group of MEPs, including MEP Alexandr Vondra. So now the Prime Minister could have done something - he didn't do it. So, of course, that's not what we're talking about, because our media, which won the five-calice election, of course, still criticize the opposition. We can still hear how it is, but we've gotten used to it. So much for the... The umbrella, it's fine, it looks good, it's marketing. That means the government says here. [[He's reading from the file.]] "We'll give you 100 billion." So is it upside down, or is it not inflationary? "47 billion to raise pensions." Yes, by law, you have to give it by law, it's our proposed increase and double inflation, by law. So the Prime Minister boasts that he's giving the elderly money, but when we wanted to give money to the elderly, there's always been an existing coalition against, especially the ODS. "4,2 billion excise duty cuts." Well, the price of diesel and gasoline is higher than when you suggested it, so nothing. "10 billion to one-off support for families with children." So the 5,000 crowns, as it will be, I do not know, because the Minister himself did not know how it would be realized. That's some kind of signal again. And "2 billion living and existential minimum." We said it wasn't enough. And, of course, the housing allowance doesn't work because it's bureaucracy. I could read it here again. And these are the people who come to me in Roudnice. These are the people who go to a foundation that has now launched a mobility program, a mobility supplement, for people who are disabled. 700 people volunteered in a few days, mostly singles. Why won't the government do it? I don't understand. I don't understand. So, of course, we're suggesting it, but when we propose it, the reaction is, "You had it..." and it's already an attack. Yes, we can talk about who should have done it when the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs was some Nečas or some Drábek and so on. Of course, Maláčová could have done it. Well, I'm curious to see how Mr. Jurečka is dealing with the IT system, the monopoly that's been there for decades. So, yes, I'm sure I'm a fan of the Civil Service Act. Of course you'll put your friends and friends there, but the officials who were there and who sometimes behaved like they were ministers, and not that the minister decides, so of course they were sometimes hard to deal with. So much for the interpellings. It's absurd, it doesn't make sense, because if the current government claims that we caused inflation by giving people money, that's obviously nonsense, because in two years, savings have gone up 550 billion and inflation was 5.3 percent in December. Now, under current governments, inflation is already over 14 percent. Yes, the first budget was probably anti-inflationary because you took people's money, but now you're bragging about giving them $100 billion. Most of it's legal. Here to declare 12 billion to increase the taxpayer's discount for 2022, so it's all approved for the old Houses, so you're only bragging about something again. Of course, you're saying we didn't have it in our budget. Well, we would have it in the budget, because the new macro wasn't until January and another macro in April, and only the macro is based on the fact that the government has a higher income of 69 billion due to high inflation. We're still suggesting where the resources are. The government doesn't talk about income, it doesn't care about EET, it doesn't care about European funds that it's 2,000 billion, that you have a Modernization Fund there, you already have 62 billion that ČEZ is drowning in money. I said, take the dividend. Last year we took 20 billion dividends and now you can take 60 billion. And finally, forgive people the renewables, the charges, the solar tunnel for the traditional parties - 600 billion away, so give it back. Do it so that the invoice is VAT zero, so that renewable resources are zero or minus, you can subsidize it. These are concrete proposals. People don't have to go anywhere, they don't have to prove anything, and they get it. But you don't want it. CEZ, I say you can have it, so I'm curious. And you're going to say, yes, that's the profit that's going to be distributed next year. I'll tell you that, but CEZ has a split 150 billion profit. And of course Beneš will scream the rating, the rating! He fooled us, too. Take it. That's your money, that's your state firm. OKD - we told you ten times: extract the 6 million tons of coal, you have 4.5 billion in your bill. It's okay, it's okay. So unfortunately - and I understand that everything we propose, you do the opposite. I don't know, I don't get it, but that's your strategy. So the strategy is still the same, over and over again - to lie, lie, lie, sell our jobs and take it. Like a separate energy mix. I don't think the Prime Minister is looking at Hey, guys, but I was pointing it out, the conclusions from the European Council. As early as 2019, I fought with Macron for this and for hours and hours we blocked the European Council. [[19.40 hours]] I think the Prime Minister always said he could prove it. Well, I can prove it, too, but of course, today I had two minutes and one minute and then I got turned off, so now I'm making up for it a little bit, but the Prime Minister isn't here. It's okay, I hope someone tells him. But he doesn't care that much, and of course everything we say is uninteresting. I've always wondered that Chairman Okamura doesn't interfere with the Prime Minister because he's intersecting him by talking for an hour. So I'm gonna change my strategy now, and I'm gonna do it the same way, okay? And those interpelations, I'm gonna have nine interpellets, and I'm gonna get one. [[With laughter.]] Well, I guess I'll change that. Let's go to Czech agriculture. This is a complete disaster. No developed country has allowed such a development. In the event of a conflict or a natural disaster - and we can say what we want, the virus wasn't expected either, for a hundred years there hasn't been a pandemic - so the population is without the need for milk, dairy products, meat, eggs. Those states are completely catastrophic. So 1990 cattle - 3,500,000 units, 2020 - 1,404,000, so a 60 percent drop. Dairy cows from 1, 236 000 to 357 000 - decrease to 28.9. Milk: 4,802,000,000 liters for 3,830,000,000, a colleague of Faltýnek talked about it. The state of agriculture is completely catastrophic. It is incredible that, after 31 years of efforts to devastate Czech livestock production, this production managed to get to less than 30%, while the old countries increased production several times, even though we have a common market and in 1990 production in these countries was similar. So Mr. Faltýnek didn't want to talk about who, how, what, but I'll say it. So we were looking forward to joining the European Union as we were naive. I remember Gay doing a party there, opening the first chain. [[With laughter.]] Like, cool, right? And they told us, "Everything has to be made of stainless steel, everything." Well, then I don't know. On the Champs-Élysées, there's such a great restaurant, there's a toilet in common for gentlemen and ladies, a bathroom in the Champs-Élysées. They'd have shut it down by now. Our inspectors went to Spain, Italy, Greece, and found that there was nothing of stainless steel, that it was just for us. I don't know if it was planned. Here I have a specific impact on self-sufficiency in basic foods by the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture under the baton of ODS and ČSSD. These two sides were running this country until 2002. They sold everything, coupon, I can repeat what was gone. For the ODS, all state banks were robbed, ČSSD sold them for their mouths. The CSSD sold Transgas at a good price, but today, of course, it's back to nonsense, but okay. So we have nothing left. And agriculture, of course, don't care. Before joining the European Union and two years after accession, the agriculture ministers were representatives of ČSSD - Jaroslav Palas and Jan Mládek. During this period, two important mistakes were made. Very disadvantageous conditions were negotiated for Czech farmers when we had recognised unfair and much lower subsidies per hectare compared to the surrounding countries in proportion to our long-term agricultural production by starting a non-ferential year as a reference, so the negotiations, the total disaster and the differences are huge. We were lured to the SAPS payment, where all farmers take the same per hectare and no matter what they produce on that farm. And that's what's always said over and over again that who decides what's going to be on that field? Well, the farmer, the farmer, decides. And by having SAPS, that means it's just as per hectare, so, of course, it's better for farmers to produce what's simpler and what has greater yields. Why would they make fruit, vegetables, potatoes, or raise animals when, of course, they have the same per hectare? That was the fatal mistake, and that's what these two ministers are in. The only Ministry of Agriculture - representatives of the ODS from 2006 to 2013, Gandalovič, Fuksa, Bendl - had a major impact on the current situation. And now I'm not gonna say that neither one of them was a farmer, we're not gonna dissect it here. One was a mathematician, a transport engineer and a firefighter. And fatal error, 1. 7. 2007. Insensibly, they allowed the smooth sale of agricultural land to foreigners, unlike the other countries that joined us in the EU, they negotiated exemptions. So Poland and Hungary - no stranger can buy land today, can. And that was the fatal mistake, because, of course, land is the best investment, the best investment, the best. How much was the land once, and how much is it today? I always tell my biggest enemies that when Mečiar and Klaus split Czechoslovakia, in July 1992, I searched for a hotel and came to Průhonice, there was 1 000 crowns. Today it costs 18 grand and it's not. And it's with farmland anyway, so those who have money, and especially foreign capital, buy land and then rent it to our farmers. And of course, the rents are high. Furthermore, these ministers directed subsidies under the rural development programme to support very extensive agriculture. The most money from the EU went to mere grass cutting in the Czech Republic and there wasn't enough money left to support investment, grow special crops and raise livestock. At this time, farmers from Václavák were created. Yes, they took subsidies, didn't produce food, and didn't solve the crisis in cow farming, pigs, poultry, fruit, vegetables, or a few very dry years at the hardest moments when farmers needed help, and in other countries they got it, they got nothing here. On the contrary, in the savings of the Minister of Finance Kalousek, money was taken away. I would remind you that the national subsidies were well below a billion a year and for comparison in past governments - and there was Mr Jurečka, too, that was five. That's the difference that solves the survival of some of the products. And of course, they can all scream that it's not meant to be and that they're supposed to just mow the grass and so on. But we missed the train. And here are some suggestions - the Minister doesn't even understand what I'm talking about. He doesn't understand what's going on in agriculture, so that's a shame, of course. But there was also the abolition of green oil under those ministers. At one point, we were the only country not receiving a partial refund of excise duty on diesel. Yes, chains - the densest network in business chains in the EU, which on the one hand liquidated small shops and, on the other hand, their concentration was very oppressive by the Czech food producers by giving priority to imports of surpluses from their owners' countries. Let's ask ourselves, why didn't anybody invest in food business here from abroad? Why didn't anyone invest here? Why aren't foreign investors like Poland here? The owner of the biggest defeat in Germany, Mr. Tönnies, owner of Schalke 04, when he was in Kostelec, said, "Yeah, the brand." The rest you can tear down, we will decide what kind of meat in the Czech Republic will be imported. We, the German chains. Yes, that's it. So who's here from foreign investors? Nobody. A couple of Francouz guys who buy cheap milk and bring out cheese, that's all. And of course, for traditional parties, farmers weren't interesting, it's not an electoral base. Who is the largest electoral base in France? Salon de l'Agriculture - 20 %. When Emmanuel Macron goes in there, they're so angry, sometimes they set fire to some booth when French farmers are angry. So it's incomparable, and that's why our agriculture was unlucky, and so was the food industry. Then, of course, they increased the construction of large photovoltaic power plants on agricultural land for their friends, where the state pays to one kilowatt of 14 crowns, which culminated in 2010. And thanks to this excess, all renewable resources were put in one bag and the construction of efficient biogas stations and photovoltaic power plants on the roofs of agricultural buildings stopped. For comparison, for biogas station it is necessary for subsidies for 1 kilowatt hour up to 2 CZK. Now, of course, it is difficult to catch up. [[19.50 hours]] So if we take the overall balance sheet, 31 years later, agricultural land in hectares has fallen by 17.4%. This is unbelievable. In 1990 we had 4 228,000 hectares, now we have 3 493,000 hectares, so 17.4 percent below. Why did the devastation and the terrible dependence on food occur? When covid was limited to traffic, our chains were glad that Czech producers had and produced the food. Thank you for this to the ignorant and incompetent helmsmen in our agriculture, they didn't see beyond their own chairs. And when we see the performances, how it is in Europe and how we compare it with the support in our country, there's no wonder. Talking about it all the time and not doing anything is gonna get worse and worse. So much for agriculture and food. It is a pity that the new minister has adopted the strategy he has adopted, but I think all reasonable countries, and if we take all the countries of Gulf, India and others, they buy land all over the planet to support their population. It's not like that in our country, there's all this nonsense over and over again, yes, because of me - rape, pollen and this crap, but fatal mistakes and irrefutable mistakes have been made for the governments I've been talking about. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, too. Another person who is registered with priority rights is the chairman of the SPD MP, Mr Radim Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u10	Good evening, this is an unusual address to the Chamber of Deputies. We'll have to get used to things in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, even the SPD movement has been signed under this extraordinary meeting because we are very concerned about what is happening to food, how food prices are rising, but we are also concerned that the government is not handling this at all. We've already had an emergency meeting here dealing with energy, fuel, and now we have a meeting dealing with rising food prices, and the problem is still the same. The government is hiding its head in the sand and pretending there's no problem. To begin with, I can say one thing that unfortunately will end in such a way that out of all these things that are not addressed, and I can repeat that where you look, there is a need to solve problems that are, not only Ukraine and refugees, but also problems that concern the Czech Republic - fuel prices, energy, food, inflation and other things, and nothing is solved, it will be one big mess. The problem of enormously high and ever-increasing food prices is not an isolated phenomenon. It is a problem that is closely related to the critical situation, as I have already said, in the field of energy prices or fuel prices. What do these things have in common? First of all, the unwillingness - I don't know, perhaps the inability - of five coalition governments to deal with them and address them for the benefit of Czech citizens. There are also the mistakes of past governments and current governments, where they are rather than errors of absolute inaction. The problem has also arisen by overretreating the European Union in the area of the common agricultural policy. That is what my previous speaker, Mr Babiš, President of the ANO movement, said and spoke very significantly about it. The common agricultural policy is absolutely disadvantageous and discriminatory for Czech farmers compared to Western Member States or Poland. This is, of course, a long time ago in history when we joined the European Union, which was also discussed by Mr Babiš, when the conditions of the Czech Republic's membership in the European Union were negotiated, i.e. already in the pre-accession negotiations that Pavel Telička led at the time, and in my opinion he led them very badly and at a disadvantage for the Czech Republic. The media have been praising him for years, inviting him as a political scientist, commentator, and he is giving the Czech Republic so-called unsolicited Count's advice. Petr Fiala's government is not sufficiently concerned with the alarming situation in the areas of rising food prices and does not offer practical solutions. As a result, the situation is getting worse all the time. As far as the market is concerned - and I will continue to talk about it, it is clear that what is grown or behaved in the Czech Republic, what is then processed and sold in the Czech Republic, affects the majority of the largest parts of the sales chain, i.e. multinational corporations. A member of the Board of Directors of the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic and a long-time active farmer engaged in animal production in particular, Mr Zdeněk Jandejsek, said: "The government is economically completely incompetent, its short-term and large-scale margin checks on traders do not solve anything at all." However, Zdeněk Jandejsek and the leadership of the Agrarian Chamber remain not only with criticism, but also proposes a set of concrete measures that the state should take, and, above all, the government should act urgently so that the situation does not become unsustainable and irreparable. And I repeat here once again that if the government does not deal with this, the situation will become unsustainable and irreparable and it will be very difficult to do something about agriculture, food production in the future. One of the first places is the rapid adoption of a law on significant market power. After all, multinational corporations and chains whose only goal - they have one goal, and that is profit, nothing else, but we in the Czech Republic have more of those goals, they are connected vessels. For one thing, it is the cultivation of various crops, livestock farming, nature conservation, the environment, enough water and other things that we need to focus on, so not only profit, but we have a lot of other goals that unfortunately we cannot apply against this significant market power in real life and we cannot change them for the benefit of the Czech Republic. So, as I said, one of the first places is to change the law on significant market power. I must say that the ruling five-calice says that this law has been passed to the House, but this law is quite different from what we would have presented in the SPD. The law on significant market power, which has been presented by five koalice, only implements other European rules and other European things in Czech politics that are not helping the Czech Republic, on the contrary, increasingly sneaking it together - Czech agriculture, sorry, does not help, they are increasingly sneaking it up and making it something that can be very difficult to repair and which can be very difficult to manage. [[20.00 hours]] On the contrary, the SPD proposes that we do - and we propose in the law on significant market power - quite different things, and we propose things that farmers agree with, with which the Agrarian Chamber also agrees - because who else should know them most and know them most than farmers. We want to propose amendments to the laws on significant market power which will be comparable to similar standards in force in France, Italy and other European countries. They can't tell us what's going on here, what's going to be sold, what's going to be grown, what's going to be behaved, how much. The notabene trajectory of what grows and behaves here is still decreasing and will decrease. The European Union has proposed to reduce agricultural production by 15 to 20 percent. Guess where they're gonna lower it? Certainly not in Poland, Germany, France, the largest states. This production is intended to be replaced by imports not from the European Union, where very hard regulations apply, which is correct, because sometimes we will still bring salmonella from Poland, for example, but want to replace it by imports of agricultural products from third countries, South America, Asia and so on. You can imagine what it's going to look like, and I don't want to comment at all. Since the proposed draft law on significant market power presented by the five-wheelers does not solve anything, it does not record to monopoly retailers, i.e. translated, to foreign trade chains carrying out fairy-tale billion profits in our country, which in the form of non-taxed dividends from the Czech Republic. So we, not only will suffer our agriculture, our environment, our water management and other things, have nothing to do with it. Nor are taxes paid here, and profits are made from the Czech Republic. After all, analysts say that it is 300 to 500 billion tax-free profits and dividends per year because it allows them to continue to strengthen their monopoly position and thus gradually continue to liquidate domestic processors and domestic agricultural primary production at the expense of the Czech population. I'll tell you how it works in practice. It's very simple. They will take out the profits and dividends from the Czech Republic, tax it in their countries, Germany, France, Austria, and from these taxes collected by their home state, they will again be given subsidies - national subsidies on agriculture, processing subsidies, export subsidies, and then, of course, the summation, the complex of subsidies and grant titles, is much higher than farmers in the Czech Republic. And then it's very simple. Czech farmers cannot compete with foreign farmers. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] They cannot compete with Western farmers because they do not have the opportunities that countries are giving them west of the Czech Republic, and it is clear that rising food prices are most affecting low-income and now medium-income groups of Czech citizens. And I fear that it will be even worse that food prices will rise exponentially, and what's more, they won't be, because another problem is that the trajectory of food production in the Czech Republic and agricultural products is that when the real crisis comes, food prices will not come to Europe, which will simply come, because it is a crisis that will follow the energy crisis completely relentlessly, so food producers from other countries simply will not sell us. You remember when the Němec stopped our trucks with their masks and said, Back, no Czech Republic. They're gonna do the same thing now. They will stop the food that will go to the Czech Republic and say: We ourselves have little. Just a shirt closer than a coat, and I'm afraid so. So what are we suggesting? Immediately financially support Czech producers who produce and are able to increase the production of quality and affordable food. This government has decided to support the small, small and medium ones. I understand that, but in the food crisis, we simply need to support all those who are able to increase production, because otherwise the food crisis will be so strong that it will be a big problem for the Czech Republic. This means all those who are able to increase production and start producing food in the Czech Republic. By contrast, immediately abolishing pointless support for extensive productions, which, under the cover of so-called organic agriculture and nature conservation, climateism, environmentalism spends public resources that do not bring anything to the population or nature. Unfortunately, we can count a lot of those, because we have numbers, of course. It's not something we make up, but the numbers are clear. The current routing of resources into organic production brings from 17 per cent of the land, which is only 1,5 per cent of the production under the organic scheme. This is indeed a unique one, which the current Minister of Agriculture wants to further support with outrageous means. You will certainly ask what else should be included in the draft law on significant market power, not just the directive and implementation of the European Union, against which we will, of course, vote and say it is wrong, but it should contain things such as the prohibition on buying at sub-cost prices, the prohibition on selling at retail prices, which also generates large leaks and leaks of revenue from the state on the side of value added tax. That's what needs to be realized. The state budget must have some revenue. Furthermore, the margin ceiling at the level of the circus 10 per cent after deduction of sales and VAT costs, as they have in France, and not that we have 200% and 2,000 margins here. Depends on what. Furthermore, cancel the private brands of sellers and place only the addressed producer and processor on the goods, strengthen the budget of national aids by CZK 1.5 billion and direct it to livestock production. Minister, that's mostly up to you, because otherwise there won't be a cow or a pig, and you'll never get it out of here. And once animal production is over, it can't be restored day to day and year to year. That's just gonna be a problem. Agriculture and food industry are also in great danger in the context of the energy crisis. That is what we said, of course, that this will be linked to the energy crisis. For example, if Russian gas supplies were stopped, which some fanatics use without knowledge, hundreds of thousands of chickens dependent on gas heating would die within a few hours. Even almost all our bakeries work on gas. It's just to be clear what would happen. If, at the same time, the government does not change the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy for the years 2023 to 2027 and if there is no re-evaluation of the so-called Green Deal, which we have also discussed here in the context of the energy crisis and green policy, there is also an absolute shortage of certain foods in the medium term. That's what I've been saying all along. So far, our farmers are already reducing poultry and pig meat farms because they are losing big money on each pound of pork and are unable to compete with Western producers and exporters - so they will not hold them. Similar reductions are being made in other European countries. So far, we've got about 35 percent of the pig meat self-sufficiency, 57 percent of the poultry meat, 50 percent of the eggs. Who will sell these commodities to us in the future if they are not, when production is reduced everywhere around us? And at what price? So shouldn't we increase the production of these commodities in the future so that we can be sure that there will just be some meat and some eggs on those counters? So here I have presented some concrete steps that also have the support of the professional agricultural public, steps that the government can take very quickly. If he doesn't do it, the situation not only in agriculture, but throughout society will become critical. I'm also pointing it out here, pointing out the SPD movement, and that's all we can do about it, unfortunately. [[20.10 hours]] Governments in the surrounding states are also going the way of price regulation. I've talked about this more than once. Poland and Croatia have reduced the VAT rate for food to zero. Since 1 February, the Hungarian Government has reduced and reduced prices for wheat flour, sugar, sunflower oil, milk, pig hams and chicken breasts at 2021 levels. The Hungarian Government has banned the export of wheat because it knows there will be no wheat in the coming years. And I wonder what our bakers are gonna make bread out of. However, it should be stressed that food prices are to a decisive extent a so-called dependent variable that depends on prices of other commodities - in our current situation mainly on energy and fuel prices. I've talked about energy prices here in detail several times, last week at an emergency meeting. So today, I would like to briefly mention the price situation in the fuel sector, including in international comparison, in relation to food prices, which have a key impact on food prices, which are co-determined by the cost of their transport. And I know that not only on food prices, but because we are talking about food today, we are going to focus on food, but, of course, transport of goods affects every product. By the way, the current taxation of diesel VAT plus excise duty in the Czech Republic is also very high at European conditions and exceeds half the resulting price for the final consumer. Half the resulting price for the final consumer! The rate of taxation of petrol is then between 40 and 50 per cent of the total price of petrol, depending on its price. So if it costs a liter of 45 crowns on average, over 20 crowns are taxes. Clearly, therefore, the main problem with fuel prices is not only the margins of their sellers, but mainly too, unchristianly, as they say, high taxes. If margins were a big problem, how can I explain that the entire EuroOil petrol pump network, which belongs to the state company ČEPRO, is dragging us here if they have such huge margins? And he's doing it just like all the other pumps. But I asked that question, and I realized, unfortunately, it's not the margins at the gas stations. If these are margins, they are margins in refineries, which are unfortunately not controlled by anyone, because the Czech Republic has about two, and most importantly it needs to be ORLEN and so on - a Polish company that we cannot control, of course, and we can only say something about it, but unfortunately that is all. High fuel prices are a problem not only in the Czech Republic but in Europe, especially in the Member States of the European Union, and a problem and a source of its uncompetitiveness due to extreme levels of taxation. Just for a demonstration here, I quote how much a liter of petrol costs in some non-European countries and also in European countries that are not members of the European Union, just so that we can realize that the European Union is not all-savory and that perhaps in some matters it may be a problem: Russia - price per liter of CZK 14,50, United States of America - 21,20, Turkey - 22,60, Australia - 25,90, Moldova - 27,70, Japan - 30 CZK, Bosnia and Herzegovina - 31 CZK, Macedonia - 31 CZK, Andorra - 33 CZK. So we're somewhere else just... maybe if I went on with the list, we wouldn't even be able to reach the Czech Republic by tonight. And now oil prices: Russia - 15 crowns, Belarus - 17 crowns, United States - 21 crowns, Moldova - 24 crowns, Turkey - 24 crowns, Australia - 25 crowns. [[Members of Krejza and Blaha, sitting in a stand in front of the pitch, ask them to tell them how much it costs in Germany and Austria.]] I don't have that here. Japan - 26 kroner, Macedonia - 28 kroner. However, Austria, Germany are the Member States of the European Union. I read states that are not members of the European Union around the world. [[The Members concerned shall respond.]] Maybe you do. I would like to hold a referendum on the speech. And I would also like to say something concrete here about the effects of the VAT reduction. Based on the real recent German experience - this is especially for those questioning this step as such and calling it questionable and economically problematic, damaging state budget, counterproductive and the like - we have heard it here, after all we have here - half of the House voted to reduce VAT and half of the House, unfortunately the larger one, voted to keep VAT on fuel as it is. In Germany, from June 2020, there has been a temporary reduction in the VAT rate by 3 percentage points, precisely in order to determine what effect such a step on consumption will have on consumption and how it can be used as a fiscal stimulus instrument. The Němec just tried. How'd it go? Specifically, the higher 19% VAT rate then decreased to 16 percent. The lower ones, where food and other goods fall from daily consumption, have decreased from 7 to 5 percent. The German opposition at the time claimed that such a measure would not have any effect on the promotion of consumption. How do you think it turned out? Well, it wasn't true. Economists have conducted a survey among consumers focused on both their previously planned and actual expenditures and, according to the resulting data, the impact of a temporary reduction in VAT rates is indeed very noticeable. In particular, it turned out that households, which assumed that changes in rates would be significantly reflected in the prices of goods, had about 36% increase in consumption compared to those that did not believe in a significant change in prices. So German economists estimate roughly that, thanks to a temporary change in VAT rates, expenditure on goods increased by €21 billion in the German economy and total consumption growth by €34 billion. This means that paradoxically, a reduction of several percentage points of value added tax can mean an increase in consumption growth, quite a lot. Following the inclusion of inflation, sales in retail sales increased by 3.7 % year on year over the reference period, and it was nominally even by 5.2 %. What do I mean here and explain and argue? That the argument of the opponents of the VAT reduction is far from valid, which is of course a whole five-calice, we have seen in the vote, in this sense, that it will only have a negative effect on the revenue of the state budget and that this will further deepen the volume of its deficit. According to German economists, this analysis continues to show, and I believe German economists are responsible for increasing consumption especially for those households that pay great attention to discounts and are sensitive to their changes. On the contrary, thanks to the Minister, we have focused on discounts that we want to completely cancel, so that we can be sure - if we are not sure, so that we can be sure - that the growth of consumption will actually decrease. Overall, the reduction in VAT rates worked as an instrument of unconventional fiscal stimulus, while benefiting from it the most from younger and poorer households, which is also a very interesting finding in general. That is what we will have to focus on in the future in the food crisis, which I regret to say once more, will come, Mr Minister. We should keep this in mind in all the discussions on tax reductions, especially indirect ones. Not just today and not just about food prices. [[20.20 hours]] How's the conclusion? To conclude, it is necessary to correct past mistakes, mainly through the active intervention of the government. You can't just cry over spilled milk and hope the market solves everything. I've already had one of these competitions about the agricultural market. In agriculture, and once again, there is no free market. Agriculture is, in my opinion, the most regulated part of the economy or the regulated part, the regulated department, the regulated economy, which, if we do not actively defend ourselves, simply cannot solve the free market because there is no free market. So, Minister, active defence of Czech agriculture and the Czech market. Doing nothing makes the situation worse. Most European governments have already understood that, as I said on specific cases. And paradoxically, agriculture in those countries I was talking about was better off than agriculture in the Czech Republic. Governments have simply taken an active stand and know that they have to do something about it. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] I fear that the five-calice government, the government of Petr Fiala, must only understand that doing nothing is wrong. It doesn't apply here that anyone who doesn't do anything isn't gonna ruin anything. So, Prime Minister, Prime Minister, begin to do something at last, work for the Czech citizens who voted for you and rely on your salaries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies. From 11 to 13 and from 18.15 until the end of the day for working reasons and tomorrow from 9 to 9.40 and from 12.45 until the end of the day for working reasons, Minister Vít Rakušan apologizes and on Thursday from 18.45 until the end of the day for working reasons Minister Martin Kupka apologizes. I am registering here another application with priority rights, and now the words of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will be taken. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u12	Mr Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members, it is clear to me that the time of the hearing is within 21 hours, and then an extension would have to be voted, so I will really try, because it has already been said a lot, so that the speech will not be long. We are gathered here at an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to hear first of all the information of the Government and the Minister of Agriculture to address the rise in food prices. Unfortunately, food growth is becoming a social problem, a problem that is very urgent and intense. For a large part of the population of the Czech Republic, food prices are crucial because food is gradually becoming unavailable for them. For example, some singles and singles get into financial trouble and are forced to limit the purchase of certain foods such as meat. Unfortunately, this is not just about individuals, but it is common among single parents. According to the survey, it is up to 30 percent of the singles. This also applies to old-age pensioners and other groups of residents. Such information must be a wake-up call for us and for the government to start dealing with the situation. Although we are pointing out the price of food and we are trying to make sure that there are steps, so today is also the reason why we are calling this extraordinary meeting. Unfortunately, we have seen the highest rise in food prices since the 1990s. Food prices in February 2022 increased even before Russia's invasion of Ukraine compared to the same period of 2021 - prices of bakery products and cereals were 11.3% higher in the food and soft drinks section, milk, cheese, eggs by 8.8%, vegetables by 8 percent, soft drinks by 7 percent. Subsequently, food prices, as well as the behaviour of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, are skyrocketing. It has accelerated the annual increase in flour prices to 52.3%, meat to 11 percent, semi-fat preserved milk to 31.3%, eggs to 14.2% and sugar to 25.5%. And unfortunately, growth continues. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop. Very poor hearing.]] Food prices are influenced on the input side mainly by the rise in electricity prices, the rise in fuel prices, the rise in gas prices, the rise in fertiliser prices, as well as the increase in packaging prices, the water and the sewer and, last but not least, by the effect of the covid, where the possibilities of food imports, which are not produced in the Czech Republic or produced only seasonally, were difficult. And I'm sure there's also a shortage of workers and other things. For livestock, the price also affects the rapid growth of feed for livestock. Apparently, the most visible example of the rise in food prices due to the war in Ukraine is the increase in wheat prices, and so have my previous speakers. The price of wheat in world markets has risen almost twice from the original $750 per pound to over $1,100 per pound. Unfortunately, this year we can expect a record increase in food prices, rising prices for food will continue throughout the year. Moreover, food is typical for changes to have some inertia, so fuel and energy prices jumps will only be fully reflected in the second half of the year. Oils, fats, fruit and vegetables, eggs, bakery products and flour are expected to be the most expensive. A little less will cost meat, cheese, curd and other dairy products, but overall food prices will go up by tens of percent and we are very worried that if something doesn't start happening, it won't stay at the lower limit of 10 to 20 percent, but it will grow by more than 30 and 40 percent. After all, we're already watching it today. I would also like to compare some of the prices of certain products here, compared to November 2021 and April 2022. For example, bread was worth CZK 29,82 a kilo in November, and today it is worth almost CZK 38. Pork ham in November 220 crowns, today already in April 240 crowns. Tomato apples cost CZK 65 a kilo on average, now or in April they cost CZK 87. eidam went to CZK 163 per kilo and now, respectively, in April, the price was already at CZK 186 and I could continue this way. The situation is very unpleasant and will have an impact on all citizens, for certain households it will be catastrophic. We need to realise that we are already facing a completely unprecedented social problem and it is essential that we really realize this, because we need to mitigate the effects. [[20.30 hours]] At the same time, I would like to come forward that it is also an important step for the government to massively support our domestic agriculture and food industry in order to increase our food self-sufficiency. And I would also like to - because if I get off here, I should also say some recommendations about what we should do urgently. First of all, we should reduce VAT to basic foods. We currently have, and it has already been mentioned here several times today, one of the highest VAT on food within the EU. With prices rising, VAT collection is increasing, and there should certainly be room and we should go the way other countries are going. The second measure is to regulate the margins of business chains on basic foods. In the amendment to the Act on Market Power, apply the provisions to control and possibly set the maximum margin when selling basic foods. Another measure is to increase the safety reserve of basic foodstuffs within the framework of state material reserves, at the same time to postpone the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy, and our first Vice-President Jaroslav Faltýnek has said so here today, rethinking and shifting the objectives of the Green Agreement. At the same time, stop putting farmers who produce food at a disadvantage and, on the contrary, try to support them as much as possible and introduce similar exceptional support for farmers and food professionals, as is the case in other EU countries. All these measures are clear and effective, and we would like to have them discussed more here in the Chamber of Deputies. At this point, I would just like to say and I would like to ask that the agenda for today's meeting be approved, because it is really necessary to address the rise in food prices in the current situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, too. I am currently not registering any application with priority rights. Since no one else is reporting, I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out, which means I'm going to check you out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. I will wait until the number of Members and Members in the Chamber has settled. I'll read what we're going to vote on. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. We're voting on the agenda. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the agenda being approved? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 2, 149 Members and Members registered, for proposal 64, against 80. No consent has been given to the proposal. Before I conclude this meeting, Madam President Schillerová asks me for priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, we had a pretty crucial topic here - food price growth. I think you're all aware of how much food has gone up and how it's starting to get unavailable. And what did we meet again? Again, the Minister of Agriculture has not spoken! He did not speak, even when we were talking about the law on significant market power today, even when we were talking about rising food prices. Well, I don't know how to challenge him to express himself. We were hoping that the meeting would pass, hoping that we would propose a resolution where we would call on the government, we are ready to work together to address this, to consider the ceiling on basic food prices, or the reduction in VAT, that happened in Poland. But in order to have a debate, the meeting would have to be approved. At least we were hoping, in the course of the debate, that the Minister would speak. We didn't see it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u15	I'm still registering a priority right, Mr. Chairman of the Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, I've only been very brief. Unfortunately, it is clear that the five-police government is not interested in addressing food prices, and not just food prices, but agricultural production, agricultural production, and everything with regard to agriculture and food. And I repeat the sentence that I said once again: the situation, if it is not resolved, will become unsolved and irreparable in the future. I am sorry not for us, but for the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-023-01-000-000.u17	I thank you, and since the show has not been approved, I will conclude this 23rd meeting and wish you a peaceful rest of tonight. See you tomorrow at 9:00 a.m.
