ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended /German press 313/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Industry Jozef Síkela. I beg you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the proposal tabled, the bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll. and so on and so forth. In view of the unprecedented situation in the energy market and the need to address energy security and reduce dependence on fuel imports from the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Industry and Trade is proposing an amendment to the Energy Act, which significantly facilitates the authorisation processes for renewable energy sources. The Government approved the draft amendment to the Energy Act at its meeting on 26 September this year and decided to supplement § 19d para. 7 to 9, according to which electricity and gas market participants can obtain, under the conditions laid down in the Government Regulation, a loan or a State guarantee to avoid damage in a national economy or to address an exceptional market situation. The draft law is presented in order to promote the optimal development of the use of renewable resources, thereby also contributing to the fulfilment of the European Union's commitments in the field of energy and climate while ensuring the energy self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. The existing energy law is inadequately responding to the potential of the use of renewable resources to ensure the coverage of its own electricity consumption. According to the valid version, entities must become licensed entities, i.e. energy market operators, even though their main motivation is self-production, not energy business. The proposed amendment to the Energy Act increases the limit of the power plant's power generation, from which a licence for electricity generation granted by the Energy Regulatory Authority is required, in connection with the definition of a business in the energy sectors, from 10 kilowatt to 50 kilowatt. The proposed amendment to the Energy Act also includes an amendment to the Construction Act, which aims to facilitate the decision-making of the construction authorities and to simplify the approval processes on the location of the construction for renewable power plants with installed power up to 50 kilowatt. [[13.00 hours]] For installation of a renewable energy source with a total installed power of up to 50 kilowatt hours, which is part of the construction, for example photovoltaics on the roof, if they meet the conditions of installation safety, no building permit or notification to the building office will be necessary. At the same time, resources for the production of electricity from renewable sources with installed power up to 50 kilowatt hours, with the exception of the construction of a waterworks, if they are located in a built-up area or in a stoptable area, will not require a decision on the location of the building or territorial approval. The proposed modifications to the Energy and Construction Act will make a significant contribution to speeding up the construction of renewable power plants. At the same time, they will bring about a reduction in administrative requirements and an improvement in the processes necessary for the construction and operation of renewable resources at the level of state and public administration. In view of the urgency of the adoption of the proposed amendment, it is proposed that the amendment in question be discussed in a shortened procedure within the meaning of Article 90 (1) of the EC Treaty. 2 of Act No. 90/1990 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. This exceptional procedure is proposed in the light of the current energy crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor, and this is Mr Róbert Teleky. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, the proposed amendment to the Energy Act in question responds to acute problems in the energy market and follows up on previous amendments from this year. The aim of this proposal is specifically to support the construction of RES and to reduce our dependence on fuel imports from Russia. The proposal thus strengthens the Czech Republic's viability while supporting our commitments to reduce CO2 emissions. The proposed objectives are met by removing bureaucratic barriers to the production of smaller renewable energy sources by significantly increasing the threshold for the obligation to obtain building permits for such sources and the Energy Regulatory Authority's license, namely that limit being set at 50 kilowatt hours. This category includes smaller apartment houses or warehouses and so on next to family houses. However, in the case of a building permit, the exception applies to the construction of waterworks, cultural monuments, especially the protected territory of the conservation reserve and the conservation zone. In these cases, authorisation will continue to be required, but I consider these exceptions to be understandable and justified. If the amendment is approved, it can also be assumed that there will be a massive construction of smaller OZ. In addition to meeting the primary objectives mentioned at the outset, this will help the Czech economy and create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u5	Thank you. I am opening this general debate, which Mrs Dostálová has signed up to. Before that, I see President Schillerová here who wants to speak with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I took the liberty of outrunning my honored colleague, because I'm sure she'll follow up on what I'm about to say. I would like, on behalf of the ANO and SPD, to give the veto under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, to approve this law at first reading. It is not political opposition to this law, we approach it very well, but I am - and I believe that my colleague Klára Dostálová will supplement me - I have noted from her that there was a debate on the economic committee about the need for solar panels to be placed in conservation areas, pawned areas, which are areas for example for housing, civic amenities and more. So we think together that this law and this proposal and all the problems arising from this need to be discussed, in particular, on the Economic Committee. That is why I am giving this veto, but frankly I say that I am a friend myself or a friend myself, which will involve a possible shortening of deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u7	Thank you. As we are in the general debate, Mrs Klára Dostálová has been signed up. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I will be very fluent with my colleague, Mrs Schillerová. Indeed, we on the Economic Committee have been very supportive of the creation of small power plants within 50 kilowatt hours, if I say so, on all possible surfaces, especially on built-up areas, that is where the roofs are and so on, that is undisputable. We discussed, however, that we must be very careful in conservation areas, reservations and so on. I'm very glad, I'd like to thank the Minister for getting it on the proposal, and that's been added. My great concern is that there are generally pauseable surfaces. The pawnable area is everything you remember - civic amenities, transport infrastructure, but for me absolutely essential, even areas for housing construction. And I would like to warn too much about this, because we need to realize that today young people are desperately looking for land to build family houses, they are desperately looking for land for large housing houses. If we allow anyone to build where they want, what they want without a building permit, even without an announcement, we will actually... In the context of this, I would like to point out that there is already public talk about this - and perhaps it is the right way - about energy sharing, so it is clear that the owners of the land would rather go on the path of building these small resources than offer it for subsequent housing construction. That's why I'm glad we got the 90's on behalf of two clubs. I'm sure we'll support the shortening of the deadline. It's just to discuss this so that we can really all in this deep crisis, housing crisis -- we all know how housing construction has fallen, that young people have nowhere to live -- so that we don't take away the possibility that we'll ever get to any property in the future. This concerns both cities and municipalities, this issue is indeed absolutely essential, so I would like us to discuss this with the Ministry on the committee and try to find a way to prevent, of course, the development of housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u9	Thank you. We have an application for a debate further, but I have a factual point in the meantime, from Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, a Member who I do not see here now, perhaps just a typo, and yet Mr Král, who is interested in speaking with the facts. [[Mr Müller is reporting, and Mr King prefers him.]] Do you prefer? Yes, okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose a reduction in the deadline for discussing the draft law in committee to 7 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u11	Thank you, I have a note. Now with the de facto Mr. Král. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that any shortening, accelerated negotiation and some kind of salami method in energy will simply lead to a good result and I do not understand why we cannot actually agree on a common solution for Czech energy across the political spectrum. Take this, I just don't understand that we're going back to the energy bill in the course of - I don't know - two, three months maybe - I don't know, Minister, the second, third time. In the next month, we will probably be discussing community energy, which will also concern solar matters. I just don't understand why we can't do one common energy package, systemically and systematically, all in peace at ministerial level to prepare, not just the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Today, let's say there's going to be some kind of tax law in the interdepartmental proceedings that's going to involve a windfall tax. In two weeks, or how long we'll be dealing with here, or the Ministry or the government will be dealing with the introduction of a limit on the levying of electricity generation, what will be the rate to tax production from photovoltaic panels. Shouldn't the investors, for example, know that now? For God's sake, let's finally find a common solution. We're running out of trains and let's not waste any more time on unsystemic steps. This salami method is simply not going anywhere, or will only lead to a deterioration of the situation, and I think we are witnessing it today and every day. [[13.10 hours]] And see, for example, where the development of renewable resources led, or rather, from the English designation, let us call occasional sources of energy, in Germany. There will be a dramatic increase in the price of distribution costs, that is, the fixed ones, and now the new ERU is dealing with it in some way, but it will only be burdened with the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-009-029.u13	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? I don't have Mrs. Dostálová on the monitor anymore, there she is, so I'd just like to ask my colleagues if they could erase her from the board. [[Mined on the board.]] If not, this concludes the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in speaking with the final word? It does not, and neither does the rapporteur. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We may proceed to the vote. We'll wait a little longer for the co-workers. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Just a little longer, we're waiting for colleagues. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 125, registered 145, for was 138, against was no one. Result: accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Do I ask, then, if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee for discussion or committees? I don't see anyone. Now we have to deal with the fact that there is a proposal to shorten the deadline to 7 days, which we will therefore vote on. I don't see any counterproposals. Initiating vote to reduce the deadline to seven days. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 126, registered 147, for was 137, against no one. Result: accepted. Thank you all for your cooperation. Initiating next item
