ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u1	2. The Government's Bill repealing Law No 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation /German press 177/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, he will state the proposal - and I see that it is already at the table for the plaintiffs - Mr. Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, I beg you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I think that who has followed the positions of the members of today's government parties on how the EET has been introduced and on how it has been implemented, cannot be surprised that we are fulfilling one of our key pre-election promises that we have made and that we have won the House elections last year, and we are presenting a draft law abolishing electronic sales records. All the provisions in this law, in this proposal, are linked only to the termination of the sales record, no amendments are proposed beyond those necessary for annulment. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments at this point, I've said them many times. If anyone dreamed that there were few, I could refer to my numerous performances to the EET or repeat some of the arguments. However, it has to be said that in the time when the EET was working - and it no longer works two and three quarters of a year, let's say two and a quarter of a year, but half a year will not work yet, because within the scope of the covid, we were actually hand-in-hand with the then government shut down the EET from around March 2020 to the end of 2022. So apart from our reservations, which have not changed in any way, the business environment has changed greatly. There was a sharp increase in the volume of cash-free payments, when last year it was about 60 per cent and over two to three years experts estimate that the share of cash-free payments will rise to 80 per cent of all sales. Let us remember that registering cash-free revenue is unconstitutional according to the Constitutional Court's decision. In this respect, we who gave this submission to the Constitutional Court were successful and, therefore, last year, 40 per cent of the maximum cash payments, up to a maximum of 20 per cent of cash payments within two to three years. The Chamber of Deputies, the Senate has introduced a flat-rate tax, a limit of one million. Yesterday, we approved a proposal for the government to raise this limit to two million. We also approved the proposal to increase the VAT registration limit from one to two million, and we can certainly agree that if this instrument was supposed to be used to control VAT, it does not matter for the non-payers as well as for the non-cash payments. What's important, though. We are turning the principle of the relationship between the state and the citizen and the entrepreneur. I would say that, apart from the debates that are still waiting for us, the alleged benefits that are alleged, on the other hand, the costs are very precise, precisely the worst of which the EET was the basic approach: everyone is a vulgar suspect and is to be on-line in the 24/7 regime on the basis of this general suspicion. That's what I think was the worst in the whole EET system. [[16.00 hours]] We want to turn around. It is not the first time we say that we want to trust citizens, trust entrepreneurs. This does not mean that we will not carry out checks, and this does not mean that we will not be very strict with those who do not fulfil their obligations. I will repeat what I say often, but sometimes the opposition pushes us something else, taxes not only are payable, taxes have to be paid, because the state budget has only income from taxpayers and debts. There is nothing else on the revenue side of the budget and, in particular, those debts are financed by the long-term expenditure of the state budget. In the previous point, one of the opponents wondered that we had increased the cost of running the state debt when we prepared the draft budget. Yes, we have increased that, and against last year we pay about one billion crowns a month more to operate the state debt. I don't know more about the state's mandatorial expenditure than the interest payment on the debts that the state has made in the past. The material I presented to you, in particular the explanatory report, the impact assessment on the business sector, income estimates, cost estimates, did the expert apparatus of the Ministry of Finance, I didn't enter into it, very often it was the people who wrote the explanatory report themselves when the EET system was being implemented. I think that's how the Ministry of Finance's professional apparatus is supposed to work, fulfilling the government's programming statement. When one government decides to introduce an EET, it is necessary to write it professionally and legislatively correctly, and if a government like ours decides to cancel an EET, quality officials can once again write it legislatively correctly. We never knew, we never got the relevant data about... the alleged increased revenue of the state budget. I've heard many times fence with different numbers, but we never had the evidence to prove it, they said. [[unintelligible]] It was often referred to as the case that revenue grew in those sectors that were imposed on the EET, but at the same time the same ones forgot to point out that in those sectors that were not imposed on the EET, the tax revenue grew even faster. I want to remind you that the third and fourth planned EET wave has never been introduced. It was also due to the contradictions in the coalition that introduced it at the time, fortunately, and also the approved arrival of the third and fourth waves once again abolished by the Constitutional Court. I think we all remember that. What's the alternative if we don't approve the bill? On January 1, next year, the EET would be launched not only for those who had already had the EET off in March 2020, but for hundreds of thousands of other entrepreneurs who had never had the EET. I don't think that's appropriate. I don't think we need to burden our small businessmen with other costs. But the key thing I actually said once: this proposal demonstrates a change in government's approach to citizens and entrepreneurs, demonstrates that we believe them because we know that the vast majority of them are decent, honest and fulfilling their tax and other obligations towards the state. And of course, we're going to fight the others, but they're a distinct minority. And there is no reason for a strong minority of dishonest people to punish other responsibilities and other bureaucracy by those who are honest and honest in doing business all the time when they put themselves in this difficult way of livelihood. Thank you for your attention and I firmly believe that we will cancel the EET together by the end of the year and the world of business in the Czech Republic will be a little more free and easier again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. And now the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, was to take the floor, but I have an announced change. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be rapporteur for the Member. We have to vote for this, so I'm gonna call in my co-workers from the lobby... I think we can start the vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is the rapporteur for a change? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 145 Members and Members of Parliament entered, for 89, against 1. The proposal was adopted, so the rapporteur will be Mr Vojtěch Munzar. And I would also ask him to take the reading... sorry to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u4	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up my intelligence report on what the Minister said in full conclusion. There is often a misconception in the public, a misconception that the EET is already cancelled because the public does not meet it every day. In fact, but legally, the EET is only postponed until the end of this year. That means we're always here talking about what happens when a law is passed. Today we should also discuss what will happen when this proposal, this government bill, is not adopted. It will happen that from 1 January 2023 the EET obligation for gastronomic facilities, for restaurants, for accommodation services, for retail, and at the same time the obligation to buy EET for all other waves of businessmen, for example for all hairdressers, gardeners, other craftsmen, marketers, small producers, even practical doctors, veterinarians, physiotherapists, will be added, in short, for all those who accept payments for their services in cash. These obligations include, of course, the investment costs of the equipment, but also the obligations of the type of display of signs under a considerable fine of CZK 50,000. At a time when the service and business sector was shaken by two years of anti-covoid measures, and at a time of high inflation and the overall increase in costs for entrepreneurs would reactivate the EET, that is, not accepting this government proposal, bring additional costs and complications. Let me remind you of the history of this press in the intelligence report. The original law came into force on 1 December 2016 after long discussions in this Chamber of Deputies and the introduction of sales records was originally divided into four stages. In practice, only the first two phases - catering and accommodation services and wholesale and retail - and the further extension of EET to other services and tradesmen, i.e. the third and fourth stage, which were originally to occur during 2018, were effectively abolished by the Constitutional Court, which also requested justification and analysis, the content of which would be an assessment of the need for regulation against the persons concerned and the activities concerned. The Constitutional Court also assessed the law as a whole, its decision was to maintain the law, but I must point out that, with the important dissenting opinion of a part of the constitutional judges who did not agree to the law as a whole, because they believe it was a significant invasion of privacy and freedom of enterprise and according to them, the State did not use less invasive means that would lead to the declared objective of the law. After a broad discussion in the last parliamentary term in the Chamber of Deputies and also after the Senate was returned, an amendment was approved, which envisaged the extension of the EET to other activities, other services, to other businessmen in May 2020. However, covid came and after the initial rejection of the delay of the EET by the previous government, the then government finally came twice with a delay - together with us - with the delay of the next phases and shutting down the EET for those where the EET had already been introduced. First there was a delay until the end of 2020, then a delay until the end of this year. [[16.10 hours]] It is important to recall that the then Minister of Finance commented that EET was a burden on business and literally stated that it was necessary to let the economy breathe. And today, in accordance with its programming statement, the current government is proposing to us to repeal the Sales Recording Act. The government sets out several reasons in its explanatory report. One of the reasons mentioned here by the Minister is the low impact on the revenue side of the state budget, i.e. that there would only be a slight increase in the revenue of the state budget in restoring the EET and extending the third and fourth wave. This makes the argument different from the previous government, which often told the public figures higher, but if I quote the explanatory note, the originally estimated impact on income taxes was not fully fulfilled. At the same time, it is the reason for reducing expenditure on the state budget, reducing costs related to EET, amounting to less than half a billion crowns. An important argument is the reduction not only of administrative but also of financial costs on the part of individual entrepreneurs. The government estimated the costs to be at least CZK 1.5 billion, which is a very conservative estimate from my point of view, because here the government expected an average amount of only CZK 3,000 per entity. I personally believe that the cargo would be much higher. Another reason mentioned here by the Minister was a significant increase in cash-free sales during the covido period. And I would add another argument to all the reasons given by the government. Given that the EET has been interrupted and postponed due to a significant burden on business, we are still in a difficult economic situation today, when individual business entities are confronted with high inflation, with increasing their costs, with rising prices, reducing supplies of material and cooling demand, so the reasons that previously led to the interruption of the EET, in this sense price increases and cost increases, so continue in this sense. The rest of the arguments and my political position would be left to the general debate to which I claim other preferential rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Please take the floor at the news desk. And now I have Vice-President Schillerová here with priority rights before the debate begins, and then Vice-President Havlíček will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, once again, my dear colleagues, I have prepared a long performance, I want to talk about how it all started, and so on and so on. But I have to respond to some of the things that have fallen on the part of the Minister in particular, rather such inaccuracies or - I will be very polite - untrue. Shut down the EET. It's not off EET. EET is voluntary. And that's how it was. Nor is it true, Mr Munzar, through Madam Vice-President, that I would oppose it. On the contrary, I actively came twice in a row. And I could have left it until the end of 2021, we had enough votes to do it here, and yet I wanted to do it by the end of 2022, so I wouldn't make it the subject of parliamentary elections. I just thought it was unfair back then. And I had a problem with that as part of our movement. So please, if this is the right thing to do. It's not off. He's voluntary. And still a lot of businessmen voluntarily -- the honest ones that are mostly, yes, you're right, we can definitely agree on that -- and the honest ones are just calling for EET to remain at least voluntary. I have a whole series of arguments here from businessmen. and we will certainly get to that in the course of the long discussion that awaits us. Yes, you're right, Minister, that transactions with credit cards have increased. But that too is the result of the EET. If the Constitutional Court then stated that they were not under cash payments - and I never had a problem with it - including credit cards, they were exempted from any of the amendments at the time and it was not applied, so logically they simply rose as one of the consequences. But the second, let's face it openly, no less important and equally crucial, was the covid, which contributed very much to increasing the number of transactions in the form of credit cards. And on the contrary, the entrepreneurs I've talked to, or the union representatives say, now it's going to go down again when the EET is canceled. Nor is it true that the Constitutional Court would say that it is unconstitutional. He didn't say. There was a dissenting position that you have repeated here for a year and a half, especially Mr Munzar, through the Vice-President, when you were obsessing over the novel, so you've all been reading the dissenting one behind each other, and he didn't listen to it much anymore, and I did, because I was sitting here at the table of the petitioners, and I often argued that I heard it for about the hundredth and twenty-fiveth time, but that is the destiny of all of us who either present or defend something. And you also said that yes, we're introducing a flat-rate tax, that's true. We've introduced a flat-rate tax, our government. I stand by the fact that this is an excellent project. I was looking forward to making it better together by moving it, very well, also thanking you for making it, Minister, a mandatory VAT payer over two million. I'm sure we'll support that. That'll be very quick. Flat-rate tax, I like your proposal less, the three bands. But that's gonna be a debate some other time. So that didn't make it any better. And I think that if you put it through here, you have most of it, the attractiveness of this institute will certainly shrink. As far as you're concerned, you've been talking about the perception of honest, dishonest businessmen... Again, we agree that the majority are honest. They just want you to stay EET. They are afraid of returning to the nineties, which we now see live in other areas. So they wrote it down to me, and I have a basis here that I find when I get to it. And this is one of the arguments. But I'll stick to the stuff. And when I look at the statistics, and I have these numbers, when I was still the finance secretary, and we evaluated three years later, which is back, I don't know, two years, or a year and a half, or two years, it's probably more like it, so it's been clear from the data, and here I agree with you, the apparatus is still working for you or working for me, so tax controls have dropped. Logically. Because, thanks to the overviews combined with the inspection report, of course, not all of them are VAT payers, but for those who, after the introduction of the EET..., dropped the number of checks carried out, because logically the Financial Administration evaluated electronic data and walked more or less safe. If we go back to not having these tools, this unique digital project, then, of course, it will bother again. We will go back to when I was still upset at the lower positions in the Financial Administration, that sometimes the controllers eased their situation by saying, in lower positions in the Financial Administration, not as deputy or secretary, that they sometimes made it easier for themselves to work by going to control these businesses, because they had no evidence, except for the tax return they didn't have too much data, then went there and burdened them unnecessarily, which is precisely what these digital instruments removed. But it also made sense to reduce the number of controls so that these people would not be controlled - why also, if the data were actually in the Financial Administration system? The third and fourth waves - I don't know about any contradictions in the coalition. At the time, we agreed on a system where the amount of revenue would not be recorded electronically. There was a rather quick agreement, and then we promoted it here together on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. [[16.20 hours]] So just one more thing. If so, I would ask Mr Munzar, through the Vice-President, to either not quote me or quote me literally. I wasn't talking about the burden on business when I suggested delaying or not delaying, but the voluntary EET for twice in a row because of the covid, but I was talking about the fact that some people at the time had to go fulfill their responsibilities during the registration which were not somehow difficult, but was covid, was simply limited contact with the authorities, could not go anywhere, some did not online. So those were the reasons why I just went along with it. So it's not that I consider it... But on the contrary, they're calling businessmen today that they don't consider it a burden. And now, please, to this general performance of mine. I just don't get it together with Minister Stanjura, he joined the Ministry of Finance and he claims from the beginning that he wants to be budgetaryly responsible and reduce the height of public debt. I'm not going to repeat that the plan has the opposite, that's what we're going to say, there's going to be an amendment to the budget bill and other budgetary procedures that await us, so I'm sure we'll talk about it. But the real steps I'm watching right now, and this is one of them, so they're suggesting something completely different. The electronic sales log was designed from the beginning - I was not at the very beginning, I became Deputy Minister of Finance for Taxes and Customs from 1 January 2016 and this was actually the process quite in the course of the first two phases, but was actually conceived as an area measure with a gradual start in time, whose main aim was to settle the business environment, an increase in tax collection. So the philosophy of the YES movement, when the Ministry of Finance took over, was that we wouldn't raise taxes, we agree on that, I'm glad, at least in something, but we'd better collect them. Trust me, I know what I'm talking about. It didn't go well for your governments. In the end, this was reflected in reducing the tax burden, because by better collecting the taxes, we could have reduced them. And that's the famous table since 2015, 2016, in which the overall tax reduction, even when counting the abolition of the supergross wage, was also with your help to be honest, so did some, I don't know, 516-520 billion. And that's what we could afford because of our strict selection. It wasn't just thanks to EET, it was mainly due to the second important VAT institute, a control report, which, over three years, only three years, basically ended up with carousel frauds that were simply mega-dimensional. Mega-dimensionals, billions of crowns that I say, and here I dare say they stole, I dare use that word here, from the state budget. So after three years, the Attorney General at the time stated in his annual report that he could basically say that there was a big, actually almost termination of this crime, because it was indeed robberies. Of course, there were others involved - the fact that we introduced the institute of not only the local tax authorities, but the first to initiate it. This was a very important achievement and, combined with this, carousel fraud was destroyed and tax havens were also destroyed - Prague. He basically finished, tax haven Prague. You remember again, there were statistically, those inch headlines that tax control in Prague takes place once every 358 years, so everyone moved there. And that's a good thing, because that's what's fallen through the net of the dishonest ones, which, and we also agree, I repeat, is a minority. During its operation, the EET has generated almost 60 billion additional revenue for the state budget. That's probably for you, Minister, at the planned deficits for 2024 and 2025, I suppose it wouldn't be enough for you each year. I don't want to suggest that you consider it... I'm not just talking about income tax. I'm talking about the impact on social security, health insurance. Everything goes up in your hand. When your revenue is reduced, and I repeat that in 2013, before it actually came to an end - in 2014, Andrej Babiš became Minister of Finance and began to work out how to do it. This means, in Slovakia he copied control reports and in Croatia EET. Thus, in 2013, at the end of 2013, the Czech Statistical Office estimated concealed revenues in the Czech Republic at 130 billion. Electronic record of sales is an economic and political measure that we have politically enforced and implemented together with my predecessor, then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. He actually started it, I kept doing it. This system provided additional annual income for the state budget - had it had, if all had been introduced, a gradual start-up there - up to 13 billion a year. I was looking at the reason message. You're actually right that the apparatus works the same way. There's data at the time of the introduction that I worked with. The system, as it was set up and calculated, hasn't changed in any way. It wouldn't even be possible. The apparatus has to work on the same principles all the time. And that's only for a system already in place that includes the first two EET waves. In the event of the introduction of a third and fourth wave, the Ministry of Finance estimates that EET would have created an additional 7.7 billion, so we would have been talking about a total amount of about 20 billion. I have a presentation here three years later. I suppose I can get to her in some of my next performances, where I'll show you the specific effects, I've got graphs. So I'm sure we can talk about that later. Now I want to go over the whole development in chronological order. [[There are kids waving at the guest gallery.]] I wave to my kids, too. [[A note from the diaper.]] It's okay. Kids belong to everyone. Yours, ours. Unless they're all yours. But I'd wave to them too, Minister. There. I understand politically that Minister Stanjura refuses to introduce a third and fourth wave, that he does not want to complete one of the main economic projects of the government of Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement, because it began before the government of Andrej Babiš in the previous, previous government, even though it gives meaning to businesses but also to citizens. But what I don't understand at all is interference with the first and second waves. This is already a functioning system that, according to STEM's 2020 research, has up to two-thirds public support. Now a little bit of history. It was 2014, as I have already said, that Andrej Babiš sat at the Ministry of Finance as Minister and during this period the think tank CASE, which officially counts tax evasion for the European Commission, published a report, I have already touched it, which was extremely pessimistic for the Czech Republic. VAT fraud in the Czech Republic increased by 15 billion to a total of 90 billion during 2012, so it was appropriate and inevitable to stop closing your eyes to this fact and start changing the philosophy of tax view. That's philosophy, too. You were talking about philosophy, so our philosophy was not to raise taxes, better to collect them. Unlike the supposed right-wing governments, which had the Ministry of Finance's ministry in gesture before the ANO movement, as I repeat, Andrej Babiš did not want to go the way of raising taxes, but did not want to close his eyes to the grey economy, so he decided to change the situation. So he simply began to focus on how to collect taxes properly. But how was it that, in the Czech Republic at that time - until then, it had changed very much - a settled view among some taxpayers that it was normal to not pay taxes? [[16.30 hours]] As the most reasonable one at the time - were simply different variants, consulted and inspired for us at the time, or for Andrej Babiš, abroad, because he knew that the bike had already been discovered, so why not inspire abroad? Germany, which has had a unique triple combination, does not increase taxes, has long-term low unemployment and also has a very effective system of tax administration, which is really set up very efficiently. The Czech Republic also needed an economic example of how to collect taxes better. There were more topics and examples, and eventually Croatia, a country that had a relatively long-standing problem with the grey economy, was chosen. Of course, she had a similar post-communist past and introduced this functional system. As a result, business entities over the course of two years, and the rocket surge, I have it on the charts that are sitting on my desk over there, the rocket increase in the segment area where the EET was introduced, was totally obvious. In those segments that started first, which was actually the area of hospitality and accommodation, there was an increase in the first segment, for example, the average wage, which was totally diametrically different from the average wage in the rest of the economy. Before the introduction of the EET, the average median wage was somewhere around 22,000, and there was 12,000. That wasn't normal. And suddenly, a quarter from the quarter after the introduction of the EET began to grow. That means the impact was just across. This had an impact not only on the selection of the revenue page for the Financial Administration, but also on this leveling, of course, that the so-called wages did not apply to the hand, i.e. without payment of social and health insurance. Subsequently, the Ministry of Finance began actively preparing the fundamental reform that we are discussing here today. In the context of the receipt of electronic sales records, close cooperation was established with the then Croatian Minister and Ministry associated with the exchange of information. It was discussed here in the Czech Republic, discussed abroad. In July 2014, for example, a briefing was organized, attended by then Croatian Finance Minister Boris Lalovac, on the experience of the Croatian Ministry of Finance, on the implementation and operation of the electronic record-keeping system of sales. The consultation with Minister Lalovec and actually his team, which means colleagues from the Croatian Ministry of Finance, took place repeatedly. In parallel with the active preparation of the electronic sales log system, the Ministry of Finance began to communicate this topic also towards citizens and entities in the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Finance team has become active, communicating and explaining the terms and conditions for business, focusing controls on the dishonest part of this sphere, that it does not really mean repression, on the contrary, that the honest - and it finally happens in a very short time and clearly demonstrated the numbers - do not have to worry about controls at all, almost at all, if they absolutely do not fall out of any of these problems, because actually the Financial Administration has sufficient records to identify the wrong ones or the right ones for control rather, dishonest. The intention of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic was to minimise costs on the side of the business sphere. Originally, we were also counting on the customer's obligation to take over the receipt, so maybe you remember that, those were the beginnings. After extensive discussions with both the professional and lay public, it has been abandoned from this point on. This illustrates that we have tried actively to communicate and adapt electronic records to real market and citizens' demands. From the outset, it was clear to us that public support for this project was crucial. At the beginning of 2016, the Chamber of Deputies managed to approve the electronic record of sales and, as a result of the higher predicted tax collection, we could at the same time reduce VAT for catering services from 21 percent to 15 percent. That was the first reduction. You know that followed with a distance of about two years later. In the middle of the year, the Ministry of Finance began actively and massively communicating EET with the public and explaining the clear benefits of EET to the public. Here I would just like to point out the different communication of the then Ministry of Finance and the communication of the current five-wheeler. As part of the active communication of the Czech Ministry of Finance, we gave a helping hand, both through expert seminars, expert conferences, trade fairs, meetings with the Chamber of Economics, such as the Union of Cosmetics, as I remember, but of course there were a number of other professional associations. Also known was the visit of Sapa, which took place repeatedly for the Vietnamese community. We created educational videos, websites, printed information leaflets and brochures and created a functioning telephone line for helping subjects who had some specific type of problem. From November 2016 onwards, electronic sales log worked on a voluntary basis, it was called a running period so that all participants could try out how this system works and verify its readiness and readiness. From December 2016 then EET began to operate in sharp operation in the first stage, it meant the obligation to register sales for accommodation and catering services. The gradual launch of the EET continued with retail and wholesale shops, which began as a second wave in March 2017. The third and fourth waves of the EET were postponed by the Constitutional Court until May 2020. At the end of 2017, the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court gave us the truth that electronic record of sales pursues a legitimate objective and thus is an effective tax collection and settlement of the business environment. Unfortunately, as a result of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, and I do not regret it, we had to postpone the third and fourth wave, they should have had a later run and the third and fourth wave were to cover some craftsmen, hairdressers, beauty salons, nail studios, masseurs, photographers, repairmen, hourly husbands, stallers on the markets, car servicers and other entrepreneurial natural and legal persons. We've been discussing it here for a very long time, and you know that we've also agreed on - I think it was 600,000 sales when it wasn't necessary to register electronically. The electronic record of sales as an economic policy measure clearly met expectations. For one thing, there has been a settlement of the business environment, where it has made it impossible for dishonest entrepreneurs - and I repeat, here we agree that there is a minority - to shoot down the price demanded by the majority honest part of the business sector. The real effect of the EET was that it reduced the administrative burden for honest entrepreneurs, eliminated unfair competitive advantages for those who were dishonest and levelled the business environment. There was no threat to individual freedoms as the representatives of the five-wheelers haunted, because all the information has been communicated by my tax office and businesses before the arrival of the EET, it was nothing beyond that. The Financial Authority is only getting to this information on time today thanks to the EET. He could have made targeted use of them and processed them analytically. Thanks to EET, I've already said it, I'm just repeating it, now the Bureau doesn't have to start random checks and checks, which have put an honest part of the business sector - and I repeat again that it is most - in time and administrative needlessly burdened. [[16.40 hours]] There were several myths about the electronic record of sales that spread the current government five-wheelers, with only one goal - to discredit and politicize our proposal regardless of any real functionality or possible malfunction of our system. So I'm just going to say a few of them, because in the finals, we all know this false argument intimately. Some of them were also heard here in the opening speech of the Minister. For one thing, it has often spread in the House, but also in the media, that our proposal considers each of the entrepreneurs to be dishonest. Of course, the opposite is true. EET has not touched honest entrepreneurs at all. Those receipts were served honestly before the EET was launched. Electronic sales record is advantageous for these entrepreneurs because it helps them fight the smaller and less honest part of entrepreneurs. The second purposeful myth is that the system brings substantial costs of tax collection for the honest part of economic operators. Even this often repeated claim is not based on the truth. More than 90 percent of entrepreneurs have already used the Internet at the time of the adoption of the law. So they had connections. It can be assumed that, of course, since then, the proportion of these entities has increased significantly. We've been talking about five years. We helped the smallest in the form of an increase in tax discounts. Thus, even for these entities it was de facto advantageous. There was this one-off reduction of 5,000 of the tax discount at the time of the introduction. The third chosen myth is that additional costs for businessmen and entrepreneurs can lead to the cessation of their activities. This claim turned out to be completely untrue. So I judge based on the real data that we have at our disposal today. There was no significant decline in the number of business entities and the number of trades, for example in the inn sector, increased dynamically after the start of the EET, up to the pandemic period. During the period between the end of 2016 and the end of 2019 alone, the number of trades in the inn activity increased by around 5%. Similarly, wages in this sector have increased. The pace of growth of average gross wages in the accommodation, catering and hospitality sector between 2017 and 2018 until the beginning of the health crisis, according to official data of the CSU, the growth rate of the average wage was significantly higher than that of the Republic. I've already talked about this, the diametric difference between the median average wage and wage in these two sectors, which was introduced first before the EET was launched. Diameter difference. I repeat once again that the more significant cost that EET could bring to business operators was only that some entities - I say some - had to pay taxes. Here we all understand that this was the intention of the entire law. Remove this competitive disadvantage. Remove the disadvantage for the honest ones who have always done their duty and paid their taxes. Finally, the Minister said - that is probably the second thing we agree on today - that taxes have to be paid. So here we all understand that this was the basic intention of the entire law. The argument that it can eliminate someone's tax payments and that is why we are to tolerate tax evasion does not really belong in this century's advanced society. There have also been reports of alarms that the system is becoming chaotic and that it is not prepared enough. I guess you already know I have to disagree again. The law was born for over a year. It was created on the basis of consultations with experts in the Czech Republic and with experts from abroad, which, of course, I have already mentioned and declared here. The electronic record-keeping of sales took into account the comments of legal experts as well as the public debate. Chaos in this whole process was created only by the current government five-calices, which politicized the whole problem, probably from a lack of other topics. It was also spread falsely that the system for hundreds of millions was created undercover. If we look at it technically and from a technology point of view, yes. You don't want to give someone who wants to exploit the system login data to the system. That's pretty obvious. This myth was also related to the fact that the collection of large amounts of data could be misused. The system is designed as safe by the best experts on this issue. No one's gonna find out from the data what anybody bought. This is why technological developments were carried out behind closed doors. The myth that haunted the current five-calice is also the length of waiting for the receipt. That the payers will wait in the queues to register the sales, thus extending the time spent on payment. It takes as long as credit card payment to issue a receipt and register the sales. We're not even in danger of waiting in a blackout. Even this myth hasn't been confirmed. The last of many arguments was that in the Czech Republic we should be inspired in the West and not in the Balkans. I've heard that many times around here. I think we need to draw inspiration where the system works and where we can look for a population with similar tuning, similar past and similar problems in this area. Thanks to that, we managed to implement the EET well. The elimination of this dishonest competition and the creation of conditions for fair entrepreneurs were also the reasons why EET was supported from the start by an overwhelming majority of professional and trade associations, chambers and associations. Compliance with legal obligations must not entail a competitive disadvantage. What is important is that they persisted in this support. According to the statements that are in public space, this is a bad step, a step in the wrong direction. The absolute majority of them, if not all of them, are plowing, at least those who represent entrepreneurs, to whom it concerns, so that the EET remains at least on the basis as it is now, that means voluntary. As I said at the outset, the introduction of the EET also reduced the number of controls by the financial authorities, when their number decreased by around 12 000 between 2017 and 2019. These controls did not unnecessarily delay honest work, on the contrary, they did not tolerate dishonest business methods. In 2017, the number of Customs and Financial Administration controls was above 82 000. After the introduction of the first two EET waves, this number decreased to just over 60,000. On the contrary, the finding of various offences in financial and customs controls has increased significantly. In 2017, it was 22 percent and in 2019 it was up to double, i.e. 44 percent. Thanks to the information provided by the EET, the supervisory authorities could clearly focus on the dishonest ones. This, of course, reduced the costs of the public sector, but also reduced the costs of an honest part of the business sector. The supervisory authorities have not tolerated non-compliance with the system, but I also clearly want to declare that the individual fines have not been liquidated. I demonstrated it clearly after three years on clear statistics. So even these different attacks on the side of the five-calice have not been confirmed. The authorities mainly fined serious measures (?) and solved three quarters without granting a financial penalty. [[16.50 hours]] The abolition of the EET is disadvantageous both for the public sphere and for citizens and entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs will recover unfair competition and a grey economy. The honest guys are gonna be beaten to shut down the EET. It is another demotivating element that affects entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. It should be a surprise, then, that this comes with a government that declares that it is a right-wing government. At the same time, entrepreneurs lose their natural ability to define themselves against criticism that they do not contribute fairly to the implementation of public budgets and thus the functioning of the state. At the same time, and let us be honest with ourselves, the availability of the necessary data will lead to the return of random tax controls and unnecessary control of honest entrepreneurs at the expense of the dishonest ones. Because even the Minister doesn't intend to resign for inspection, as he said at the outset. Together with this, of course, these tax controls are not free and will cost hundreds of thousands of crowns at administrative costs. And the same share of financial costs, but also of time, will have to be borne by the business sector. At this point, I add that completely unnecessary. Entrepreneurs will also lose an effective tool to support their business, i.e. they have already built many on the EET platform. This is, for example, a traffic check, e-accounts for customers, a VAT security or a flat-rate tax, showing turnover to the financing bank, etc. This information is directly from an interview with the business environment throughout the Czech Republic. EET cancellation also bears significant costs for citizens. First of all, there will be a decline in sales points that accept cash-free payments, the number of which has increased significantly as a result of the introduction of the EET, even outside Prague or large cities. I would like to point out to some Members that the Czech Republic is not just Prague. They often forget about it. The cancellation of the EET also involves a reduction in the number of traders registering purchases electronically, which, among other things, significantly facilitates later claims to customers. There is no need to keep a receipt, a warranty note or anything. However, the cancellation of the EET also carries significant costs for the public sector. The state will lose the important information that EET provided. Moreover, this information was exceptionally available practically online, which allowed the State to use it to perform its functions effectively. At the same time, the government's five-wheelers are constantly talking about a small, efficient and digital state, but at the same time they want to abolish the basic digitalisation tool for political reasons. EET brings immediate information to the public sector about visible trends in the real development of different segments of the economy. The system immediately detects changes, which can be effectively targeted by measures or support, assessed their impact and detected warning signals or correctly targeted controls. This will increase the efficiency of the performance of the state tax administration. In addition, electronic sales log ensures the collection of additional CZK 13 billion annually. At a time when the government's five-wheelers are constantly communicating how it wants to be budgetaryly responsible, the disruption of the EET is a step that lacks any logical basis. Gentlemen, this is no way to make politics. From a fiscal point of view, EET brings additional 13 billion to the state budget. In the event of the introduction of a third and fourth EET wave, public revenue would be up to 20 billion each year. This is at a time of falling inflation, with annual price increases of almost 16 percent, fuel, electricity and natural gas prices rising, where a dynamic rise in food, clothing and footwear prices causes the middle class to gradually fall into poverty, in a situation where the Czech Republic has the highest inflation, or the third highest inflation in the European Union in Balkan countries, is completely illogical. The highest in Balkan countries. This government is doing an absolute minimum in the fight against inflation, and today we are shutting down an instrument that could return 13 billion to Czech households to slowing down their standard of living. It is perhaps obvious to all of us that Czech households need this in today's situation regardless of political affiliation. Our movement, thanks to additional revenues guaranteed by the EET, could afford a number of measures to reduce the tax burden. In the area of VAT, we have extended the range of goods and services covered by the first and second reduced VAT rates, including reduction of VAT to catering services, draft beer, newspapers and magazines. We could introduce kindergartens, increase discounts on children, exemption of service of armed forces, return tax discounts on retired workers, return discounts from PPAs, increase contributions on pension life insurance - deductions, sorry, deductions, I changed - change the taxation of pilots, increase deductions for blood donors, and these and other measures allowed us to reduce the tax burden on citizens, including the abolition of the supergross wage by more than 500 billion since 2015. According to STEM's independent research, the basic attitude of the majority of the public towards the EET is quite obvious. The two-thirds majority of the company considered the introduction of the EET as a positive measure. And the distribution of this view has been stable over time, even across the significant and endless campaign of the current five-wheeler government, who chose EET as one of the main political targets. To be fair, I'm going to give you the factors that responders most often state for STEM as the reason for my negative assessment. Among them are the administrative and financial costs for businessmen, the liquidation of businessmen, the effectiveness of the measures and the fourth most common negative factor of the third, which assessed negatively, was that it was state supervision. It is quite clear that these negative attitudes were based on the political campaign of the current five-calice, which was unprecedented. At the same time, it is quite clear that these concerns have not been confirmed during the period of operation. So it was an odd thing to worry about. The STEM survey also revealed that the EET contributes to the settlement of the business environment in the Czech Republic. This view is shared by the three-fifths majority of the public. Up to two thirds of the company is convinced that electronic sales records contribute to better tax collection. At this point, I must also point out that the nearly two-thirds majority of the company considers the extension of the EET to be a fair and three-fifth majority to be correct. It is therefore quite clear that EET is a system with strong public support in the Czech Replice. And it's all the more surprising that the current five-wheelers are so stubbornly insisting on shutting down this system. The EET system is a system that a three-fifths majority of the public thinks that its introduction contributes to the settlement of the business environment, and a two-thirds majority thinks it contributes to better tax collection. Minister Stanjura - I am sorry that he is not here now that I am talking about him, I do not like that - so he wants to turn the state budget as Minister of Finance by CZK 13 billion every year. [[17,00 hours]] If a student cheats on a test, the teacher should be punished. If an athlete is doping, he's perceived by the public as a fraud. Similarly, if an entrepreneur does not fulfil his obligations, he should be sanctioned by the State. Not because most entrepreneurs are cheating, but precisely because the honest part of entrepreneurs are not at a disadvantage from this dishonest. And that's how most of our society sees it. The Czech Republic is a beer nation. So let's describe together an example that is close to all of us. Imagine two innkeepers doing business on one street. The first one works hard, invests in business, new technologies, hygiene, does not cheat customers by shooting beer under a mark, and honestly pays taxes. On the other hand, scum, where it is possible, brews beer under a mark, has a mess in the pub and cheats the state in tax evasion. But when cheating on the state again doesn't cheat on anyone else, just their customers, because they are the state and they draw goods from the proceeds of taxes paid. The equality of business conditions is determined by the legal order of the Czech Republic. If we want to, and I believe that we want those who follow the rules not to pull the shorter end, we need to find a way to enforce the rules. Electronic sales log goes this way. Today, the one - or when we get to the third reading, the one of you who votes and votes to cancel the EET, clearly votes in favour of those who want to parasite on the system. Disturbing the EET is a mistake, both political and economic. And I again call on the Chamber of Deputies to avoid this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, Madam President. And now it's Mr. Vice-President Havlíček's turn, and before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. Between 18 and 24 o'clock until the end of the day, Mr Kobza apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Bureš also apologizes, today from 17.00 to 19.00 for reasons of work, Mrs Maříková apologises from 16.15 to the end of the day for family reasons and also apologizes to Minister Langšádlová until the end of the day for today's negotiations, probably for reasons of work. Thank you. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u8	Madam President, Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members of the Government, we have said a lot about the EET here. I was here last time, and I'm going to try to look at it from a different perspective. I have listened very carefully to both the Minister of Finance and the former Minister of Finance, Mrs Schillerová, and I do not think that we have a completely diametrically different perspective on certain matters. The problem is how we approach serving people. Because I believe that we agree that the state is to serve and that it is to set rules that are simple, which are fair, guarantee a fair approach and which are also, I call it win-win, that is, which are beneficial for both those who use these instruments and, of course, for the state. Understandably, anyone who uses any new tools offered by the state may have a different view of this. That's perfectly natural. Therefore, it is customary that if anything like this is introduced and discussed, it is done on the basis of professional platforms, in simple terms professional associations, associations, chambers and so on. It's most often done on the basis of tripartite. But it is not necessary to do so only with the participation of the Confederation of Industry. The Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, the Association of Hotels and Restaurants, the Association of Business and Tourism should also be invited. I said the five most important ones, which are really the main spokespersons for small and medium-sized companies. What's the point? All of these entities, which I have named here, stood up for the electronic record of sales at the time it was introduced - and beware, at the same time all of them have stood up for it now, at the time it is to be cancelled. I'm not saying all the members of all these unions felt the same way about it. At that time, I was the chairman of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, and we also had part of the membership base that was not identified, but the overwhelming part agreed with it, which we had to respect in the same way as our colleagues in the other unions. Why did they agree to it, why did we agree to it back then? I speak for myself as a representative of the then entrepreneurs. First of all, because we are in the 21st century, virtually everything - electronic disability, electronic recipe, electronic highway sign, finally we all switched to electronic banking. And I remember all these instruments when they were introduced, that even then there was a certain skepticism, and we got used to it because it is a simple tool and because it corresponds to the time and to unite the platform in which we work and, of course, it is also more comfortable for the state. That's what I said it was a win-win. That's why everyone agreed on it back then. I completely misunderstood your argument, Minister of Finance, when you say that you are disturbing it, among other things, because we introduced it because we considered entrepreneurs to be those who are vulgar suspects. Well, no one said someone was a dirty suspect. It is so difficult to understand that it was being implemented because it is a unified system, that it is a system of the 21st century, that it is a system which, of course, eliminates a smaller part - and I dare say a significantly smaller part - of those who may not have shown everything completely okay? What's weird about that? It's perfectly normal. Just as it is normal that at the same time you, I mean your government, are introducing mandatory data boxes for all entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic, and that is correct. If we were in government, we would also be introducing it. Among other things, it is a more demanding system than the entire electronic record of sales. The data box is a 21st century tool and thanks to it we can communicate with the state much more elegantly. Then why are we resisting this in electronic sales records? I would understand if the government came up with something she didn't like about. That's perfectly normal. I would understand if the government started improving the electronic record of sales, because sooner or later there will be an electronic tool, for all countries are introducing it. Yes, we can discuss whether it is the best so-called Croatian model or model, I don't know, German or otherwise. I might even agree with that. But the Croatian model made sense. It's a remote message, and no one, if I recall correctly, has ever technically challenged it. On the contrary, it was claimed to be one of the most modern systems. Why aren't we improving it? Apart from the pluses I've named here, that means there's a fair environment and it unites the whole system, so obviously there's also a benefit for the state. Yes, we can discuss how big this benefit is for the state. But I was, it's one month, at a conference where all the unions that supported it were calling for it not to be canceled, and there was a representative of the Ministry of Finance - I'm sorry, I don't remember his name, it was one of the directors, I think, the department - who said that the benefit was CZK 13 billion a year. Okay, I'll take what the Minister of Finance Stanjura says. They're literally saying that we've untrustworthyly justified the 13 billion. I'm just saying, the guy from his department said it. But if I wasn't sure, what's easier than doing my own analysis? Why didn't the Minister give it up and process it and say it - you claim 13 billion, I say again, the Treasury employees, but other Treasury employees say it's 5 billion or 3 billion or 7 billion? [[17.10 hours]] I haven't seen an analysis like this, it's just said yours is unbelievable. What if she's credible? What if the 13 billion is okay? So, at this time, the state is losing these resources and, at the same time, is saying to the business public which should comment on this because it immediately affects them that it despises them? That he doesn't take their opinion seriously? Why do we have a tripartite here, why do we have a Chamber of Commerce set up by law? Well, let's cancel it, so let's not communicate with them. That's what bothers me. So it could be improved. And I'll say the negatives that it has. And I'm also sorry that we didn't make it through the covid, especially, but you can say it's an excuse not to just pretend that we're world champions. Maybe we should have been even more consistent in that we should have tied it up faster with what we've always wanted, and that's -- I call it one click of tax returns. That would be great if the companies that have it were to use it directly for the simplified returns that they send to the Financial Administration. But this is a technological issue that when we didn't handle it, the government could have come up beautifully: you see, you couldn't do it, we're gonna do it and we're gonna improve the whole EET system and we're gonna prove to you that it can work very efficiently. I think that would be a very good solution and a very reasonable one. Everyone would be satisfied, the entrepreneurs who want it, the state would have 13 billion a year. And at the same time, I think we can agree that this is an excellent tool that would simplify things for companies. I would even take one thing that I might have a little problem with, but I would understand it if the government said: I will no longer introduce it into other segments and end up with the first two, which are businessmen and which are restaurants. With them, please, there's no doubt it belongs there. They still have some systems. And if someone doesn't, or sooner or later they will, they can't do it any other way than electronically with the amount of receipts these days. They can, but it's complicated, and the innkeepers use it to a large extent because they control their employees and so on. But maybe I'd take it if it were said, let's not give it to those craftsmen anymore, let's not give it to all those who make one receipt a day and so on. Even back then, I hesitated a little bit when I was a business rep, because logically I thought yes to one side, it's fair for everyone to have it, but on the other hand, I understand when someone actually has two receipts a day, if it's absolutely necessary for him to carry a bigger calculator and print it out. Yes, I'd like that. But the fact that we're shutting it down, the fact that we can't even make a voluntary basis, since the infrastructure is already created here and the companies want it, I really think that's contempt for the businessman. And you've been focusing on the fact that businessmen are your priority. If they're your priority, please listen to what they're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u9	Thank you. And now the President Jakob is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u10	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot do this; I have listened carefully to both previous speakers and I have to respond to what has been said here. We've heard some myths from President Schillerová here, but what she said here herself, in my opinion, was a fairy tale or an endless story, and even though it was trying to sound like a fundraiser, the obvious facts were missing. And if what she was trying to disprove here as myths, then I consider what she said to be her myths. And it was quite convincing. I might even believe it if I didn't come out of this building if I didn't go out with people if I didn't talk to businessmen and businessmen. But they really, really don't see it that way. You have enchanted here, Madam President, through Madam President, a kind of philosophy of better tax collection, and that you have allegedly succeeded. But that's a deep mistake. None of this is conclusive. The only thing that is quite clear is that it was happening here until there was a covid crisis, economic growth despite your government measures, and, as a result, there were naturally higher tax revenues. So it wasn't your philosophy, it wasn't your government measures, but it was just the diligence and work of businessmen and businessmen. And what you're doing here is really political. EET is the political symbol of your past governments. That's why, and that's why you're defending him. And that's probably why we're gonna be here at least till tonight. [[Member Schiller from the post: until morning.]] But he's also a symbol... Until morning? Well, we're ready. We don't mind. At the same time, it is a symbol of how you treated businessmen. It is a symbol of your distrust of entrepreneurs and businessmen. It's a symbol of your kneeling at them. And it is a symbol of limitless bureaucracy that is not needed. And like I said, there's no rational reason for EET to continue. What was said here by both of my previous speakers, there wasn't a single rational reason. The contribution to the state budget is clearly unproven or minimal. One of you says 13, the other says 20 billion. You won't agree on it either. But the fact is, the Ministry... and the data clearly show that the contribution, the actual contribution of the EET, the introduction of the EET, to the state budget is minimal or even unproven. On the contrary, the costs are quite clear. The operation of EET costs entrepreneurs and businessmen 1.5 billion. Their 1.5 billion! And the cost of another half a billion. Vice-President Havlíček here said... [[- Through...]] I'm not calling him. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Here he said it was an instrument for the 21st century. But that's a mistake. I guess we stayed somewhere in the last 20th century. This is evident that this instrument has long survived, and it falls in the debate that cash payments are falling and will become less and less. And this way is the way of the future, the way of the next in the 21st century. It's not like we're gonna keep an electronic record of this century's wannabe here. And the numbers are also clear that these cash operations are less than 20 percent. And the trend is long-term, permanent. Yes, there are impulses that are accelerating him. But it won't come back, I guarantee it. And proof that it's completely irrational for electronic sales records to continue, so let's just say it's interrupted, you're saying the voluntary base that's going on now. It didn't happen at all when it wasn't mandatory, and especially at this time. Especially at a time when businessmen, businessmen were hit by a crisis of covidová, povidová, and now all matters due to Russia's aggression and the rise in energy prices, so entrepreneurs need to be supported. Please do not insist, through Madam President, on your political symbol, which does not lead to anything. Businessmen and businessmen need to be encouraged, relieved of the completely senseless responsibilities you have imposed on them under your rule. So I firmly believe in rationality, unlike the fairy tales that have been said here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u11	Thank you, too. I have the Members and Members here to make a point of fact. I merely remind you that, according to Section 60, a Member may refer to a factual remark which responds to the debate, and we do not yet have an open debate. But I ask Madam President if he wants to respond with priority rights? Yes. With priority rights, yes, not factual. We don't have a debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. You are right, as always, I did not realize that the debate was not launched. Mr Jakob, briefly, through the Vice-President. You guys are really cute. [[Laughter, applause, yes.]] Thank you. That's right. That's right. You just come in, you weren't here at all, you weren't involved in the EET debates. I don't know where you're going, I guess you're going to that minority group. Because I'm going to a different place, and so are my colleagues and representatives of the unions and chambers. And when we get to the budget committee, I'm gonna ask them to come in and tell you, it's gonna be more authentic than me. I'm talking here, I don't know what I've been talking about, 40 minutes, 45, and I think I've been quite, I hope, I've been talking really, I've been trying to put a minimum of that policy in there, but, you know, some have gotten there, too. You come in here and say it's not true at all, it's completely different, you say the five heads, the cliché. There is still a lack of Mr Kučera, Chairman of the Agricultural Committee, through the Vice-President. I remember when I was a tax and customs deputy, so I always went somewhere to the EET, and we met a lot in the debate, a few times, a few times, they sent you, in the pre-last term, and they sent me also, an inexperienced clerk, such an effort. And you're always -- and that's been over and over -- and when you told me about the fourth or third time in a performance, I've already answered that question for you to find something else. I'm gonna say it again, 'cause I'm sure it's mister-- now I'm gonna take it away from him when I say it-- he always said to me, "You're going with a cannon on a sparrow." That's what you told me in every debate, that's how we started the EET. This is where it was still missing, Mr President Jakob, through the Vice-President, to tell me that we are going with a cannon on a sparrow, or all the headliners that you have repeated here for a year and a half that only I have experienced obstruction. Look, I'm not gonna make a political statement here, I'll leave it up to you. I'm pumping - it's also in the explanatory report, plus minus I watched because the officials are still the same: 2017 - 7.9 billion, 2018 - 20,2, 2019 - 33. I have specific calculations here. Then we lowered the tax burden. The whole table that we could afford to cut in those three years - this is after 20, then of course there were other 21 changes, but we were already involved here, so it did almost 130 billion. [[shows]] And now look - the number of trades, I have a graph, the source is the Ministry of Industry and Trade - this is how the trades grew in three years. [[always shows]] Then we have dynamic wage growth in hospitality. I'm not talking politically here, am I? I've got facts here. Source of the CSU. The pace of growth of the average gross wage. Here, if you look -- and it's been bouncing like this since the introduction of the EET, instantly, average wages have immediately increased. Logically, answer why. Now as our revenues were increased, the source of ČSÚ, not the Ministry, ČSÚ. Accommodation by 13 %, admitted sales in hospitality by 20 %, retail by 8 % after introduction. That was the first and second wave. And here I have another graph over the three years, as the controls have decreased - you've been talking about the administrative difficulty - so here's one step to reducing. On the contrary, the record grew. That means they've made fewer, but they've targeted the dishonest ones. I said it here in my speech, but, of course, I've got it all backed up from the Ministry of Finance data back then. And then I have this average fine here that, on the contrary, they were very low, and so on. So, Prime Minister Jakob, through Madam Vice-President, check the facts. Those are your headlinings over and over again that aren't true. So explain to me why most of these entrepreneurs, associations - and when I get out here again sometime, it will certainly be many more times today, so here I have, directly sent to me by the representative of the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, the owner of several restaurants in Prague and around, suggestions and requests, spoke today even somewhere in the media, we talked on the phone before we started this point to preserve the EET on a voluntary basis. They're really afraid the honest will pay for it. So maybe you should try talking to this majority and majority group here, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u13	Thank you, and now with priority rights, President Jakob. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u14	So I'm just gonna take the liberty of actually reacting to what happened here. Of course, I cannot verify the graphs, and those resources, however, are very briefly quoting from the explanatory report of the proposal that we are discussing here, which concerns the economic and financial impact. First paragraph: Cancellation of sales records does not constitute an additional expenditure for the State budget and public budgets. But beware - a insignificant lower collection of taxes on the part of public budgets is envisaged. Lower expenditure on the part of public budgets is foreseen. - And then it's written down in detail. Everyone can find it themselves. So these are the facts that we have written in the explanatory memorandum. And as for the number of businessmen, I don't have the statistics in front of me either. However, what I am quite sure is that the growing number of businessmen is quite odd because you have introduced the EET. It was because there was economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, too. Anyone else checking in with priority rights? Madam Speaker. A word, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u16	Thank you. I'll be very brief, Madam Vice-President. Thank you for your word. Mr President Jakob, I will give you an easy education through the Vice-President. You've read here - you've ripped one sentence out of the context of the explanatory statement. But I didn't say that as a result of the introduction of the EET - I look at my colleagues, if they understood it the same way you did, I misinterpreted it - that as a result of the EET, trades went up. I said that the EET didn't mean that they had fallen, which you said here all along - I'm not saying you, you weren't here at the time, but your fellow partyers, through Madam Vice-President. That you haunted the business. It didn't happen, I quoted the numbers of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which draw from the trade register, that, on the contrary, the trades also increased from the first and second waves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. I am opening a general debate, in which Mr Karel Sládeček, who is empowered to present the opinion of the SPD MEP, and then Mr Vojtěch Munzar, the rapporteur, first came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear ladies, gentlemen, in the SPD, we say taxes should be paid. We supported the introduction of a flat-rate tax by promoting that it should be up to CZK 2 million per year. We also support the VAT registration limit of CZK 2 million per year. But the SPD movement has always been against the introduction of electronic sales records, because we think that this has adversely affected a large number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businessmen. A lot of them had to end, which is the fault of the governments of Andrej Babiš. [[17.30 hours]] We have always voted against the introduction of the EET, we have never voted differently. So if we decide today in the Chamber of Deputies to abolish the EET, the SPD will again vote in favour of this annulment. If a voluntary EET is proposed, we are willing to support it with the fact that if someone chooses to volunteer for the EET, we do not have a problem with it and we will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The rapporteur, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, will now speak. Also with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u20	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I have already announced in my intelligence report that I will speak with my political opinion, but first let me respond to the speeches that have been here, especially to Mrs Schillerová, by your means, who always says that she is speaking in the voice of a fairy-tale wolf. So today, with her voice, she was telling a story about EET how beautiful and sunny everything was. But she forgot that in the fairy tale, the Drabs also came, who used fines not for trying not to pay taxes, but for absolute nonsense and administrative misconduct. For example, a fine for a comprehensive receipt for spending one table or a penalty for not transferring time in the EET, in the EET system, from summer to winter. Or, for example, a fine for a minute difference between buying and registering sales. So much for her statement that there was no restriction on free enterprise, as she said. This was an intervention, these fines, into a free enterprise. EET is not just an IT project, as Vice-President Havlíček here said, comparing it to a data box. When you imagine similar tickets in a data box, it's as if the state was enforcing fines for not joining one's computer and your data box at exactly 9.00 every day. So it really wasn't just an IT project. In our discussion, and it has also been seen in the past, there is a really different approach to citizens and a different perception of how the state should approach its citizens with confidence or distrust and economically active people. This has been borne from the beginning as a red thread of our discussion, which is why we disagree. And that is why we are also saying, and we will repeat that electronic sales records have become a symbol of artificially created distrust of active and independent people, of entrepreneurs, of tradesmen who offer their services to their surroundings and are an essential element of our economy. These are the social and de facto non-measurable costs that came with the EET. Losing the respect of a part of the citizens of the business situation and deepening the ditches is precisely in our society when the ANO movement argued in this way to create a social demand for this instrument or a similar instrument such as EET. EET became the flagship of those past governments in their campaign against entrepreneurs and businessmen, whose sales wanted to monitor and control them preemptively online, and those entrepreneurs had to pay for this monitoring and control themselves. And all the responsibilities that have to do with it - putting up a spreadsheet, as I said here, checks on meaningless responsibilities, secret checks, penalties for absurdities and fines - I'm not going to repeat here. All these things that came up with the EET itself created a hostile environment against businessmen and entrepreneurs. It was indeed an approach of preventive distrust to economically active people. Mrs Schillerová said here that I like to quote the dissenting positions of constitutional judges, and I will not fail her this time. But I'm only going to say a short, short quote. At the time, this dissenting opinion included a very important sentence for me that the introduction of electronic sales records was something like leaving the whole class behind the school just because only one pupil disturbed the class. But it's exactly the opposite, ladies and gentlemen. We do not need to build barriers to business and to control everyone permanently online. We need obstacles to remove, we need to motivate people in society to not be afraid to enter the difficult land of business, so that they are not afraid to take risks in order to make them pay to work, invest and innovate without the curators of the state, the daily curators of the state. In order to create an atmosphere for the introduction of the EET, Ex-minister Schillerová, by your means, spoke of myths here, I will also tell you three myths that have been repeated by the ANO movement, and today the Member has also, or has repeated them today. Myth number one. It is an instrument, a mere tool for issuing receipts to pay taxes, and that is normal. Yes, it's normal to pay taxes. But EET wasn't just an instrument for issuing receipts, that's the myth. And that it's a myth, so Schillerová's finance ex-minister herself confirmed it to me in writing, at a time when I asked her in the last period in the interview, why did the restaurant receive a fine for issuing a total bill for spending one table, if it didn't cut revenue and avoid tax obligations. And then the secretary wrote me the following: The issue of a mass receipt denies the fundamental principle of EET, and this is the acquisition of relevant information about the payer's individual sales. So in other words, not the principle of issuing a receipt to pay taxes, but indeed on-line monitoring of each individual businessman's operation. Myth number two. The introduction of the EET will bring tens of billions into the budget. Yes, we disagree on that, but also the Minister of Finance said that the increase in VAT collection in other sectors where EET was not implemented was even higher than in the sectors where EET was introduced. It's very simple because we're talking about a period when we still had economic growth. As a result, increased consumption and price levels were increasing, so the VAT collection was also higher at the time. For example, the credibility of the presented data from the Ministry of Finance questioned, for example, the Supreme Audit Office, which - and I quote - said: The credibility of these data is debatable because different values are published in the materials for which the method of their calculation is not explained and are not supported by an analysis of specific data. Myth number three, the most important one here, even here today, the MP, through you, has repeated several times that it is equalizing the business environment. Noting that balancing the business environment with brutal regulation is a contradiction in itself, and the best way to grow private activities is a liberal environment, so regulation, which means financial costs, is a lower burden for large entrepreneurs and a greater financial burden for small ones. So, in itself, this already creates inequality and unfairness in the business environment. Mrs Schillerová, by your means, said here that no trades had been lost. I would just like to remind her of the result of the survey, the then result of the survey of the Czech Traditional Trade Association, according to which in 2017 after the introduction of the sales register, 1 082 of rural stores with mixed goods ended and in 2018 another 513. And the business environment is also not equal to those secret checks and bullying fines that have been here as on the running belt, I will not repeat them, but it is really only levelled by leaving room for free business in a liberal environment. I'm glad our government's coming with the cancellation of the EET. For us, this is an indicator that our primary approach to our citizens is trust, as well as an indicator that we want to maintain a liberal environment in the business environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u21	Thank you, Mr Commissioner, rapporteur, and allow me to greet you all from the counter as well. And now the next one is Mrs. Klára Dostálová. However, before that, I have a few factual points, but they were referring, the factual points, to the previous ones, so I'm just going to ask gradually as they went. It would no longer be a factual comment on the last one, but it is factual remarks that have been bouncing in the meantime. So I'm gonna ask if they're gonna respond to the current one. Mrs. Pastuchová? [[Voice off the microphone.]] Excuse me? [[Vote from the plenary: There is no debate.]] After all, the debate has been opened. [[Members call from the area in front of the speaker's counter.]] Now, I have some factual points that are jumping in here, and I'm going to ask if they're going to aim, that factual point, about who's already started the debate. So, Mrs Pastuchová? Not here now. Mr. Růžička is here. No, I don't. Then there's Mr. Vomáčka. [[The MP's signaling.]] Yes. And so it's a factual point now. [[Voices from the diaper: Mr. Munzar...]] Yes, yes, that's all right. This is where the actual notes come in. I'm just asking what they're getting off to. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u22	[[To Mrs. Pest's.]] If you want to talk, you have priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u23	No. No, I'll take the order. He used to be Mr. Vomáčka's MP, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u24	Yes, I'll take it gentlemanly if you need it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u25	Okay, great. So, Mrs. Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I really went to respond to Mr Munzar through Mr President, because I know that there were more factual remarks. Firstly, it seems to me that we are living in a different world, Mr Member, through Mr President, I am walking among these people. I understand that when you started with the EET, it was political. I understand. Every man makes mistakes, even your side can make mistakes and admit it. Because I go out with these people, and they say to themselves, at least give us the EET on a voluntary basis. As they were the opponents themselves and said: We were the ones who didn't want him, it was EET, so now we got to the stage after a year and a half that ran, that we just wanted him. We're gonna keep doing this. Just don't turn it off, just let us run, 'cause it's really straightened out. They said - they have hospitality, waiters are satisfied because they got higher money, they don't get money for their hands anymore, it's all official, they pay social, health and so on. So money flows into the system, they're happy because it suddenly started to work, they connected it completely, so once you get the receipt, they automatically subtract it from the warehouse, they order it right away. They say we don't have to make a mirror every night because no one steals. Nobody's stealing. Because it's basically impossible, because once they mark it, it just goes through the system. Everyone's happy. I understand you made a mistake, but it's human to admit that it was a mistake and that it worked. Why bother? Why destroy it when it worked? Everyone makes mistakes, even parties make mistakes, only to be able to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u27	Thank you. Another, with fact, is Mr Vomáčka, then Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u28	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go back a little bit to what the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club said here, where she went into history, how the leaflets were printed and how the information campaign was made. I remember the information campaign very well. That's when the paper opened at 8:00 a.m. in the morning at coffee, and on the other hand there were these paintings, you'll remember how many hospitals, kindergartens, schools, rescue cars, and the like, stand up and buy for it when the EET is introduced from that yield. Years have gone by - and I would probably end with these words: Ladies and gentlemen, please nicely, could I see the hospitals, cars, kindergartens and so on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u29	Thank you. Another is Mr Kučera, then Mrs Schillerová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u30	Hello, thank you for your word. I was here then. I'm not gonna tell Mrs. Schillerová that we're walking with a cannon on a sparrow, so she won't be sad or happy or anything. I might remind you of two things. When I listened to Mr Vomáčka here, I would like to tell him, through Mr President, that I have so easily calculated the selection that was mentioned by President Schillerová here, and somewhere at the number 110 billion that she has chosen thanks to EET, I have ended up because it has seemed completely pointless to me. I just want to remind you that at the time the most optimistic estimate, the most optimistic estimate in the study, which, I think, was made by BDO, or what was its name, was 20 billion in 2022; 20 billion in 2022, the pessimistic scenario was 4 billion. So Mrs. Schillerová got dramatically above the $20 billion and the optimistic estimate, which, for example, is very good for covid, I believe she didn't fabulate us and that the numbers were correct. Perhaps I would remind my previous rapporteur here and give it a little political dimension, because the political dimension he mentioned here, I would put it a little bit in context. His previous speakers mentioned the inspiration abroad, so the inspiration in Croatia, in Croatia, which at that time drowned really dramatically in the grey economy and had huge problems. It was then introduced by some agrobaron Todorić, agrobaron Todorić, friend of Andrej Babiš. He was then criminally prosecuted and convicted, or accused and perhaps convicted, and so it is a bit of a parallel to that Andrej Babiš, who is also criminally prosecuted at the moment, or accused of fraud like Mr. Todorić, who introduced it in Croatia. In Croatia, the EET ended, and it was the model that inspired us that turned out to be very sad. And I would like to ask very, very much here not to prolong the agony of the end of the dysfunctional Croatian model and end it once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u31	Thank you. The other one, with the facts, is President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, she already told my colleague Berenika Peštová for me, through you. I wanted to respond to Mr Munzar or tell him that I would not respond to him, because I heard what he said a year and a half ago and before that, and before that, you did not move at all, through the Vice-President, and I really recommend you talk to those, I will bring them to the Committee on Budgets if you come, through the Vice-President. [[unintelligible]] You're not on the budget committee anymore, I think. Or are you? Yes, you are, sorry, through the Vice-President. I'm sitting in the front row and I'm losing track. So I'm gonna take them there, I'm gonna ask them to come and tell them about their current experiences after a few years, and why they want it and who they say they're not speaking for themselves. They'll be representatives representing a group. So I'm not gonna react, because I've done it so many times, and it's the same thing I've... I think you've dusted off the old speech, I've had it in my head in that time, dusted off, and you just added that you're responding to me today through the Vice-President. Well, I will not respond to Mr Kučera at all. Not at all. That was, I don't know the names at all, I don't remember the name you named, I don't know who you're talking about. I don't really care who he is or whether he's being prosecuted or not. I've never heard of him, I don't care. But if you don't like Croatia, it was an inspiration then in 2014, I wasn't there at the time, I had already boarded the train, which doesn't mean that I wouldn't have made the same decision, but so we have another 17,18 countries within the European Union that have a variant. This means either they have this electronic or they have some form of registration cash registers, or they have a combination. Everyone's got a system, we're just going back to the '90s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u33	Thank you. Another point of fact was made by Mr Petr Beitl and then by Mrs Peštová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u34	Thank you for the floor. A colleague of Peštová, through you. Dear colleague, are you really here to tell us that the warehouse system - register cash registers and hotel software - has been invented by the Ministry of Finance? That it brought us the EET? He's been using it for years, and he's gonna keep using it, whether EET's here or not, because, as you rightly said, that's what's necessary for the operation. But what that field doesn't need is that crazy bureaucracy thing thanks to EET and those crazy online transmissions. And most importantly, they don't need those little pubs and restaurants because they really can't handle it. So please don't tell me that restaurants won't issue receipts and they won't have a storage system without an EET. That's really far-fetched. [[17.50 hours]] And as for the random checks that the former Secretary of State has been talking about, it is the officials of the financial authorities that businesses that will not take cards and which will not use register cash registers should be the first to focus on the checks and be checked regularly. And this tool is very simple and you don't need any EET to do it again. All you need is officials who want to do their job properly, not bullshit decent businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u35	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u36	So I wanted to respond to completely different Members, but you're at the end, so I'll take it from the back. Ambassador, I didn't say anything like that. I only said that entrepreneurs, that small businessmen are satisfied and that making mistakes is human. Mistake is human. Mistake is human. ježišmarjá Christ, you want to interrupt something, you want to interrupt, through the President, you too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u37	Mr. Ambassador, if you will, take a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u38	So you want to interrupt something that's just invented. What's invented. I understand you went to some sort of "Cancel EET" campaign. There's nothing wrong with admitting that this hit is no longer working and that it's already running. And we'll just find another flagship. That's all I said. Mr Kučer, through Madam President. [[Fun in the hall.]] Mr President. I don't think we should be talking about those criminally prosecuted here at all, so maybe we could just stick it in STAN and stuff. I wouldn't bring it here at all. It's pointless. And yet, if the money and the RIA are mentioned here, then if you read the RIA properly, which you're presenting here, that's exactly what it says. After all, I read here that the reduction in collection after cancellation of sales records can be estimated at CZK 4.2 billion. You think it's not enough CZK 4.2 billion? And now it's all over the place. CZK 2.8 billion state budget, CZK 1.3 billion local budgets, CZK 0.1 billion health insurance budgets. Do you think it's not enough at the moment when the whole country's down the arse? [[Reactions in the O.R.]] You don't think this money's enough? I don't think so! Ass isn't a dirty word. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u39	Thank you. Nevertheless, I ask that we get into the normal verbal regime. The next enrollment is Mrs Dostálová, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u40	Thank you for the floor. I think it's polite to respond to the questions raised. And I would like to answer this, Mr Vomáček, by your means, Mr President. Please write down: www.risy.cz, or www.dotaceeu.cz. If you didn't know what ris is, it's regional information systems. And there you will find a map of the projects according to the monitoring indicators. So the flyers weren't lying, and you can look it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u41	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Kučera. And please prepare Mrs Fialová and then President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u42	Thanks. Only briefly to my previous speaker, Mrs Dostálová, through Mr President. So most of them were paid from European funds, we know that there are 85 percent, and not from EET revenues, as Mrs Peštová has confirmed here, which was somewhere barely CZK 4 billion. Maybe to President Schillerová, because as always, I have a lot on my mind, and I'm worried about it, and then I'm kind of sad about it. So, really, EET isn't what brings this bonus to entrepreneurs. In particular, they are entrepreneurs who have employees and thus solve their problem of dishonesty for employees. And that's the basic problem. And that doesn't primarily address EET. This solves any form of electronic cash registers. The YES movement tried to solve the problem with dishonest employees by taking the cannon on the sparrow and shooting everyone. But the problem with dishonest employees solves the consistent use of registration cash registers. And, of course, she's right, Deputy Minister - I remember you from the last time as Deputy, Mrs. President Schillerová, I'm sorry, I didn't mean it on purpose, I'm really sorry, I didn't mean it like that. [[Member Schiller from the position: as you wish.]] So the systems that are in other countries, that's exactly right, at 17, 18, maybe in more European countries it's used, is used some form of registration cash registers. But this debate isn't about registering cashiers. If it's about register cashiers, let's seriously talk about it, the one that's appropriate, which registers payments and so on. But what was introduced by the YES movement, the dysfunctional Croatian model that only worked in Croatia, and it's finished, just like his father, who is now perhaps in prison or where, it just doesn't work. It doesn't work. And he doesn't solve the basic problem he should be dealing with, that's, like, the dishonest ones, or he's solving it with a brutal force, those dishonest employees. So the register cashiers do. Let's talk about it. EET certainly doesn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u43	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mrs Eva Fialová, then President Schillerová and then Mr Volný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I originally wanted to respond to Mr Kučera, through you, to the first performance, but you have now partially answered my question about what I wanted to ask. So if the Croatian model doesn't suit you and you're talking about register cashiers that you like very much, it says in your government's programming statement that you're going to fight against the grey economy and digitize. So I'm going to ask if this debate on some kind of registration cash register is on the table, and when can we expect it? 'Cause you guys are really messing up something that works. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u45	Thank you. Another point of fact is the President. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u46	Thank you for the floor. I almost forgot. Mr. Chairman Kučera - I have seen the cannon on the sparrow. [[With laughter:]] Thank you. I asked for it a little, through the Vice-President, but the cannon came on the sparrow. And a few inaccuracies in your performance, through the Vice-President. When I was talking about 100 billion, 150, I wasn't talking about EET, of course. I was talking about the inspection report. They were bigger gunslingers, those who stole VAT in broad daylight. I've been in the Financial Administration for 25 years. That was really something. So that's what I'm talking about. And the EET was an accessory. So it was VAT, a supplement from the perspective of income tax. Registration cashiers - aren't they? Would you like a register? Hm. Then ask someone. We ruled out the register at the very beginning. That's what one of Sobotkův's governments, or the ČSSDs, once wanted to do. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Right? I remember it well. Then, fortunately, it was delayed, the efficiency. And it never came to life. The register box office is expensive, very expensive and vulnerable, as it turned out in Slovakia, where they started, but 25 years ago, so much sooner than we, with register boxes, then went to some such, they called it, I forgot, some wallets or something, and then learned from us and introduced, they called it different, but EET. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Yes, that's right. And here's the MP. I'm sorry, I dropped his name sitting in the middle, performing. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Sauce. Thank you. Mr Vomáčka, through the Vice-President, is unfortunately not here. [[Right, Beitl.]] What he said here, it's a shame the Minister isn't here, I believe he'll be back soon, he said 45 minutes, so let's give him a little more time. That would mean taking thousands and thousands of officials. Oh, no? He didn't really mean that after turning off the EET all those who just won't give receipts or no, they won't take, he said credit card payments, so they're right for check. I guess he didn't mean it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u47	Thank you. Another is Mr Volný with a point of fact. And it looks like it's the last point of fact, so he can then prepare himself...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u48	Hello, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, the only one, which I'm a little sorry, because Mr Stanjura told us that he was going to leave, we said that we had no problem, he said that Minister Kupka would represent him, so now he's Madam Secretary of the Environment, but let's say. To Mr. Kučera. Please, he can only be happy that the Minister of Finance is out of the O.R., because if he said in front of Minister Stanjura "let's talk about register cash registers," he's gonna pull his hoof out and beat him to death over there in his desk, 'cause he was always the one who said it's expensive, it's the same spying as EET. We stopped it in 2010. Well, that's just one little thing. [[18.00 hours]] And the second thing I wanted to respond to here, Mr President, I also don't know his name, as he said: small pubs are unable to handle the EET. I wanted to warn him, we're not voting on the introduction of the EET, we're voting on the abolition of the EET! And those little pubs have learned it a long time ago, and what I have experience, then those little pubs are screaming why you're disturbing it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u49	Thank you. After all, just one more factual point - Mr Kučera and then Mrs Dostálová will be prepared for the current debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u50	So what's the word? I really didn't want to, and I'm gonna be short. Do I have 24 seconds?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u51	I'm squeezing. I've been thinking about you for a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u52	Seriously. Cashiers. It's up to everyone to bring it in or not. If someone solves the problem of dishonest employees, I suggest you start a register or other system in your business and keep an eye on dishonest employees. I'm sure your crooked employees won't be able to deal with you. That's the whole point. And about the pubs that ended, that's a very sad story. That's a very sad story, a lot of them ended up. I'm not going to name a specific village where I have a cottage, but that's where the pub really ended up because of EET. I admit she was at the end of her life, and that EET was the last drop that let her down. But what happened? How'd it go? It turned out the way this guy's been introduced lately, it's called rural socialism, because as the villages are trying to survive, so the pub was bought by the village, there's an employee there today, and the EET doesn't pay because the community doesn't have to pay for EET, right? So the result is that there are the same people in that pub, maybe even the same gentleman who serves there, but the village runs it. And we just stomped on the businessman who owned it and went to Child Services. The state's probably paying him some welfare today. That's how he fed himself, now he's not living himself, he's being fed by the state, and the village runs the same pub as he did, just because we've cut him up, or the ANO movement, and the pub actually let him into the whole negative. At least that black zero was enough for him to make a living for his lunch. So this is it. And I'm gonna go back to those register cashiers again. Let everyone actually deal with them for themselves, and I think it will be best for the whole Czech economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u53	Mrs Schillerová still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I also did not wish to speak, President Kučera, through the Vice-President, but I cannot do that. Really, it can't be done! No hard feelings. I don't want to touch you at all. I'm very polite. I don't think anyone here could ever notice that I wasn't. But you really froze in that pre-last term, and then you weren't here for four years, and apparently you weren't even in that system completely, because give me one single... I hope you don't mind, then, through the Vice-President, that ammunition may not have EET. There was also a big debate that the level of control was so high that why should they still have an EET? So you're not against it, through the Vice-President, I'm glad. So we're checking one thing out. And the other one. I asked about it here too, I didn't even come here at the time, but we asked about it in various debates then in the past period, it was already said here by your colleagues, the reason why EET ended up there, the economic reason. And I remember, at one of the many seminars, the head of the Association of Restaurants and Dining Rooms, Mr. President or President of the Association, Stárek, maybe you know him, and he's been misrepresenting it economically. And he said rent, that one, that one. Not EET. Not EET. The box, which could also be bought for cheap rent for CZK 300, we did several trade fairs, and he could apply a one-off discount of CZK 5,000, put it in expenses and so on. It wasn't the EET. He modeled it economically and counted it. But indeed, as my colleague Mr Jan Volný said, through you, Mr Vice-President, so today everyone has it and it does not cause them any problems. On the contrary, they say keep it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u55	Thank you and we have one more factual point. So now she's gone, so the minister isn't. That way we can go back to the general debate and please Mrs Klára Dostálová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u56	Thank you for the floor. I have, of course, listened carefully to the debate we had here, and I must say that the government is seeking to abolish electronic records of sales at the end of the year and is conducting a battle in the House with the opposition YES on the discussion of change. But experts from professional organizations, entrepreneurs and trade unionists consider the government's plan to be - I quote: a senseless return to the nineties. At the same time, they point out that some businesses will move part of their income back to the grey economy. According to many, the state should, on the contrary, reward businessmen. And I'd like to ask again, we're just constantly going back a few years, and it's already happened here in the debate, the situation is completely different today! And because we're attacking each other here because instead of dealing rationally, we're dealing with this politically, so I took the liberty of preparing a set of all the quotes that are commonly available in the media space where only businessmen express themselves, only those involved. Many experts and restaurants themselves disagree with the cancellation of the EET. I quote: it would be right to maintain the EET on a voluntary basis, with entrepreneurs using the system having some advantages from the state. The state would so indirectly tell them that it trusts them, says the representative of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. Currently, when the system is suspended, over 200,000 entrepreneurs continue to voluntarily record their sales. With incentives from the state, many others would return to the system. Other entrepreneurs also believe that abolishing the EET would be a wasted opportunity. It is an instrument that has been adopted by a large proportion of entrepreneurs and which has brought a number of benefits. Rather, the state should look for ways to use this system as part of digitization. I could imagine using the system in the idea of a digital tax return. This already works in different countries. We say how much we digitize the Czech Republic, while the plan is actually to shut down the digitization of retail. A number of establishments worked in front of the EET with only paper and pencil. The EET cash register was their first. And it was found out how much the state was robbing them, but also how much the waiters were robbing them, how many opportunities they were losing for their business, says one of the entrepreneurs. And that is how I could continue with these arguments, the arguments that concern those for which the system is introduced, that is to say, entrepreneurs. And what does the Minister say about these businessmen's arguments, in order to request the voluntary introduction of electronic sales records? Again, I quote from the media space, because the Minister, through you, has commented on the News. cz: He has not yet heard the relevant arguments or a proposal for appropriate remuneration for this step, which the state could offer to entrepreneurs continuing in the EET. Like I said, I'm just quoting what's commonly available in media space. In addition, experts mention another very unpleasant effect of the possible end of the system, namely less willingness of entrepreneurs to accept credit cards, and thus a return to cash, which may not always appear among the allocated revenues. It would be mainly about rurals and smaller towns. In connection with the possible return of a number of entrepreneurs to cash, the Association of Trade and Tourism of the Czech Republic would welcome the legal regulation of the obligation to receive cash in addition to cash without cash payment. This will make the state better deal with the problem of the grey economy. Another important vote to support voluntary registration is from the Chamber of Commerce, which proposes to use the voluntary record of sales. The State could, thanks to the voluntary record of sales, aimlessly appreciate transparent entrepreneurs instead of outright demotivating distrust of all entrepreneurs en bloc. In general, the Chamber supported the idea of EET, as it sees in it, as well as other critics canceling records, measures to limit unfair competition or to level up the business environment. Entrepreneurs who conceal sales and therefore do not pay taxes or health and social insurance are undoubtedly privileged to those who are regular payers. [[18.10 hours]] A number of customers enjoyed the fact that the company where they came from acted according to the rules and, like them, paid taxes. A number of business associations want to maintain the EET precisely because they want to show that they are not tax-payers, and that their sector is honest, supplementing entrepreneurs, while rejecting the Ministry of Finance's justification that the state is losing CZK half a billion a year due to the operation of the system and entrepreneurs for the necessary maintenance of the system by an additional CZK 1.5 billion. I quote, we don't know where they got those numbers. Entrepreneurs cannot calculate this and we believe that the cost of the state is several tens of millions of crowns. Once again, I quote entrepreneurs, and once again, we can all look it up in the media space. The trade unions, unlike the professional public, are significantly sharper. I quote: We call on the current government to fundamentally reconsider the plans for the total abolition of the EET and to extend its scope to all relevant taxpayers according to the original plans. This step is not only necessary for tax justice, but it brings so much needed resources for public finances in the Czech Republic. According to the trade unions, a mere renewal of the EET to the originally functioning extent would bring an additional income of at least CZK 12 billion each year for the budget, and if an earlier planned expansion of the EET had taken place, this amount would have been at least CZK 20 billion. The EET is also supported by representatives of the largest professional organisation in the tourism sector, the President of the Association of Hotels and Restaurant. We have never opposed the electronic record of sales, on the contrary, we supported it at the time of the introduction and, on the contrary, the President said that the project led many entrepreneurs to register VAT, which used to be quite difficult. According to experts, the state voluntarily cut off from the instrument for the easy allocation of subsidies following the amount of registered sales and got rid of the possibility of continuous monitoring of the state of the economy in individual areas of business and regions. Confusions about the cancellation or maintenance of the EET even got into the popular survey Absurdity of the Year under the name "vidence of sales once yes, once no" The nomination stated that one government says that electronic sales records are a successful tool for monitoring compliance with business tax obligations, the other government says that it is an unnecessary administrative burden without any major effect. I quote exactly what the nomination says. Anyway, there are entrepreneurs and businessmen who have to prepare for the EET someday, then accept the information that the EET will end, and who knows what's going on. If everything changes back and forth with every new election, they'd rather hang their business on a nail. Minister, I did this on purpose only on what businessmen say, because here we constantly confront each other politically, but I think that you, especially as a right-wing politician, should listen to entrepreneurs and you should stop making these upset messes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u57	Thank you. Minister Stanjura has applied with priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u58	Thank you for the floor. So there's no way I'm gonna question the quotes except they're not accurate, they're wrong, they're very often myths. Absurdity of the Year - one government takes action and the other cancels. And that is the principle of democratic politics. You've also been interfering with the measures put in place by our government. It's logical, which is why we come before citizens with some electoral program where we promise and say what we want to do, and if we succeed as we succeed, we just keep those promises. Did we promise to cancel the EET? We promised. So you're here painting a black return somewhere until the '90s as everyone cheats. What has happened since March 2020 when the EET doesn't work? Has the grey economy been increasing here for two years? Two years these businessmen have been cheating? Or what's going on? You guys designed to shut down the system, we liked to support it, and two and three quarters of a year hasn't worked. Has the business environment really gotten worse? Really? [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Worse? Then why did you turn it off? That was your suggestion. You had most of it. You're criticizing yourself. You guys helped make things worse. We can offer an electronic tax return. That's the absurdity of the year! In order to pre-fulfil a tax return, Madame, through the Vice-President, you must know its revenue or revenue, and its costs. And as much as we can do with the EET is part of the sales. That's all the state knows. He doesn't know how much sales were paid by credit card, cash-free at the bank, he doesn't know what the cost was. How can a judge even say that on the basis of part of his sales, he is able to prepare a tax return? Well, explain that to me. How's that state gonna figure out what the cost was? How does this state figure out how many cashless payments were made, whether on an invoice or a card? Yeah, the only thing they're gonna find out is that some part of the businessman's report was cash sales. It's unconstitutional to find cash-free revenue. This is not the opinion of the opposition, it is the opinion of the Constitutional Court. Yes, when you say there's a voluntary EET running today, what does that mean? Entrepreneurs are sending data somewhere in a black hole. And what's going on with the data? Nothing. They're piling up somewhere. So great electronization, digitalization, that at the moment when the compensations were under the covido programs, it was calculated by hand, and no one even thought, you who ruled, didn't even think to use sales for the covido compensation. At least in those sectors reported and recorded sales. Why didn't you do it if it's so great? So you digitized it perfectly, you had all the numbers, all the information, and still everything had to be asked for paperwork, documenting the decline in sales for example. Explain that to me. Well, because I can't! Because there's not enough information. Entrepreneurs digitized it, and now we're gonna force them not to be true. That's a lie again. The only thing EET means, our proposal, everything works, the business is run by the business as it wants, whether it controls the employees or who it's his business, it's digitized, it's his business. The only thing we're cutting off is an online connection between his establishment and his financial office, because there's nothing the state can do about that data. Voluntary EET works. How does it work? What did the state do with it? What did your government do to those who didn't cut it and send the data? How did you evaluate them? What did you find out? How did you reward them? Nothing. No wonder you can't. The project is preconceived. Yes, copied from the Socialists in Croatia. You know what happened to those who promoted it, the socialist government that introduced it, and what happened to the minister who was quoted by Mrs Schillerová here at the lectures and seminars of Andrej, that's all true. In 2016, he ended up in office, in 2016, not in 2020 or 2021. Yes, I've met with those who would like a voluntary record of sales. I wasn't prejudiced, but we really have nothing to offer for it. We don't even know how to handle the data like the state. What is a good incentive, and let's talk about it during this discussion, is whether, to the obligation that you have to allow payment in cash, we also do not have to add cash-free payment. That's a relevant debate. I'm ready for that because I think the customer has options and the customer has to decide. I'm ready for that, for the debate. Let's see where we can get into this debate. But that has nothing to do with EET. This is just an extension of the option for the customer to choose what is more comfortable for him, whether cash, an invoice or a card. So you can say what it is. The numbers are made up. You said that the cost of the state is CZK tens of millions, and you have it in the explanatory memorandum. That is what it takes to say to those who claim it: unfortunately, you are wrong, it would be good if it were true. The costs of several tens of millions of crowns - for example 80 were in 2020-2020 when the system was shut down. When the system was shut down, the cost of the state was 80. It's the Treasury officials, you got it. It's the same officials who were there last time, not my officers. [[18.20 hours]] In 2019 the cost of the State - 410 million. In 2020 - and it was already partially turned off - 390 million. In 2018 - and we are only talking about operating costs - 390 million. In 2017 - 410 million. So in five years, but that was a year and a half off, the operating costs of the state were proven to be 1.7 billion. Not a few tens of millions a year. And the cost was 365 million. So in five years, 2 billion. And I'm saying it didn't come out of that for a year and a quarter. If I divide two billion by five, I don't get a few tens of millions. Unless we say 40 is a few tens of millions. That's right, 40 tens of millions is 400 million a year. In 2017 to 2020, operating costs of finance, Financial and Customs Administration - CZK 2,166 billion. If we cancel, as our government suggests, we will save 463 million a year. That's not a small amount. We save jobs, cancel the agenda, narrow down the number of civil servants. The cost of entrepreneurs - no one knows. So we were very conservative and we could have it even weaker. We said that it is CZK 3,000 a year per one: CZK 500 internet per year - I think that is no excessive price; software and hardware - CZK 1,000; personnel costs - CZK 1,500. I'll add, if we run to the third, fourth, wave, it's estimated to be your number, half a million of those who will be required to record. Times 3,000 to 1.5 billion. It's very simple. That's not an imaginary number. I think the number could be higher. That it doesn't have to be 3,000 on average per person. But we didn't want to overdo it, we didn't want to blow it up. Those are the facts. So the state has data storage. He never worked with them. But we had mystery shopping. Don't you remember when the Financial Administration staff went out for coffee and checked to see if they'd get a receipt for coffee? Do you remember the funny receipt lottery? That was commercials, right? By the way, since we're already having fun, PR under contract. That's $25 million in 2016. PR, the government does it right - 25 million. EET is a great project - 25 million. Perhaps there is also a hospitality of the Croatian minister. I don't know if it's in PR or the others. In 2017 - 11 million. That's all, in our opinion, money wasted. So tell me very seriously - volunteer EET. So let's imagine. I imagined it. Someone's sending data somewhere, some of their sales. What's the State willing to offer him? I've heard one thing, I won't say from whom: there won't be tax controls. But that's not possible. After all, VAT is not the only tax. That means there's nothing to offer. But most importantly, what has the state done with the data over the years? Nothing. But we have data. That's what we're supposed to do. He knows everything. We keep giving this kind of digitization department new and new data over and over again, and we can't put them together. I hope we can move this, that it won't be true soon. But today it is. Each of us knows how much he took last year. But it's for social services. You all know the pension fund register, don't you? which you sign to your employer? So we know all about them. We know how many pensioners we're sending. We know who we're sending doses to. We know who we're sending child support to. We know everything, but always separately. And then we say if we want to measure that a family that, for example, has an income of up to a million, that we can't do it. We can do it. That's not why he's asking. Because we already know everything. We just can't work with the data. I say we, I don't say you. I say us as a state. And that's a gross mistake. So you can defend it with fire all you want. But also tell me what the state has done with the data in five years. How come the gray economy didn't come up when it was shut down? How is it going to happen on January 1st? Morally outdated. Whoever took it and says - I've already taken it. Which one of you has a phone from 2016? Which one of you has a 2016 computer? [[The Free Member shall be heard.]] Well, that's great. Congratulations, and it's the right approach. But it's a total exception, unfortunately. Which one of you has the 2016 iPad? And I could go on like this. So to argue that someone used it... We do not prevent anyone from continuing to use the electronic control of their own company. That's not the law at all. Just about the meaningless line between the businessman and the state that the state doesn't know what to do with the data. Let's at least admit it. Or you can tell me, you're making a fiery defense here, when and for what the state used cash sales data to improve its services, to offer something to those entrepreneurs. Nothing. Just a political project that didn't produce any concrete results, except for the costs I was talking about. In addition to creating a barrier between the so-called entrepreneurs who are defrauding the state and the others and their customers. As you have quoted here, Madam, through the Vice-President, those customers want to go to these... So let him pay with his credit card if he's afraid that the business they like to go to, their favorite business, that the owner is cheating. Then I don't understand that they go to a place like this, that it's their favorite when they think that person is cheating and that he has an unfair advantage over others. We agree that those who do not pay taxes do not fulfil their obligations, are to be caught and punished by the State. That's completely out of the question. But this isn't a solution, it's not a digitalization. It's like when someone says that if I scan a document, I put it in PDF, I send it somewhere that I digitized something. Have you ever tried working with hundreds of thousands of documents that are in PDF? Ask the Czech Social Security Administration. We wanted a simple thing and we said: everyone who is 25 years in pension gets CZK 1,000 extra, or CZK 500. And what was the answer of the state? We don't know, we can't find out. We'd have to go through 2-2.5 million files by hand. Because in every file, we have written down when the guy retired. And in 2022, we are not able to find out how many people retired in 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001. That's not normal. We don't have well-established databases. I'm telling you again, don't think I'm pointing my finger at past governments. But we have to change all this. Digitization makes sense, but it has to be cleverly thought out. It can't be paper paper, digitization for digitization. But most importantly, it can't be PDF formats. That's completely useless. One last question for Mrs Dostálová, I'll repeat it. How did you use the data from that great digital project to compensate businessmen in covido programs for those who logged the sales? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u59	Thank you. Your performance raised three factual points at the moment. Then I see one priority here. So first the factual ones, Mrs Dostálová, then Mrs Peštová and then the rapporteur Munzar. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u60	Thank you. Well, I am very happy for this fiery speech by the Minister, through you, Mr President. Because you don't turn your back on me, Minister, but on all businessmen. So, of course, I understand that thinking and figuring out something, it hurts, I get that. But maybe honest businessmen would deserve it because they're the ones - and that's why I said at the beginning of the performance that I would just quote the opinions of businessmen so we wouldn't confront politically here. So you just told them that nothing's going on and that what they're calling for, and that's a voluntary sales log, so that you're just blocking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u61	Thank you. I have two more facts here. Mrs Peštová, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad the Minister of Finance has a burning speech, not just me. Last time he was sitting here holding his ears. So he was strong, too. I'm glad I can be strong all the time. But in any case, I was intrigued by one thing and what you said right from the start. It's political, it's a political decision. You said it right. We're the ones who cancel, too. You were the ones interrupting. So now all I care about is whether we're going to have fun on the material level or whether it's really just because it's political, and we're going to cut it politically. [[18.30 hours]] I think the arguments are falling. And if you were sitting here, and you were not here, Minister, through Mr President, when I can actually address you directly, you were somewhere else, and Mrs Schillerová, a colleague, through Mr President, showed here what it did and how it reacted. The graphs were here, and they were even resourced. So it wasn't that she had sucked it out of her finger somewhere, but she really tried to explain it to Mr Kučer, who isn't here again, through Mr President, to show him that it really had the effect. And my point is whether we're really going to pull it off on that political level or whether we're able to take it on that material level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u63	Thank you. Another is the rapporteur, Mr Munzar, and then Minister Stanjura, with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u64	I also dare, thank you for the floor, I also dare to respond to Mrs Dostálová, through you. In fact, even her colleague, who's been fighting a lot for voluntary electronic sales records. I want to ask: Why, then, from the start, if it's so cool and it all works, why haven't you made e-booking sales voluntarily from the start with motivational factors for entrepreneurs? Why did you fit this from the start as a restrictive tool for online control of businessmen associated with the fines for really nonsense, putting up a sign? The businessman forgets to put up a sign, 50,000 tickets and so on. Why didn't you do it as a volunteer? Why are you accusing us now that we should be looking for a motivational tool for businessmen to volunteer EET when you didn't fit in like this yourself? Plus, we're not talking about whether she's volunteering or involuntary EET from January 1st. We're talking today about whether the current legal situation will apply, which means electronic records will be mandatory, which is what we're going to do today under the current law, or we're going to accept the government's proposal and cancel the EET not just for the first and second waves, but for the third and fourth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u65	Thank you. Another one, with fact, is signed by Minister Stanjura and then Mrs Peštová. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u66	Thank you for reminding me of my name. I wanted to apologize for not remembering my name. So for Mrs Peštová. We are politicians, we make political decisions, but of course we have a political attitude based on facts and figures. And I've actually been saying the same thing since 2016. I wasn't the one, I was pointing out these absurdities that introduced mandatory EETs for camel breeding in the Czech Republic. Yes, we do. You didn't believe me, through the Vice-President. Here we go. So it's a political decision for good reasons. I don't see the tens of thousands of entrepreneurs that should be imposed on the third and fourth wave of EETs that write to us: We are looking forward to it, please allow us to have a new EET from 1 January when we never had it. That's supposed to be a larger number than those who were in the first and second waves. If we don't break the law, there will be an automatic obligation on hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs. Not voluntary, mandatory. They're gonna put up the tables, they're gonna be under constant control, we're gonna have to accept about 600 other officials, because 600 was for the first and second wave, and now there's gonna be more businessmen in the third and fourth wave, so we're gonna have to accept other officials to walk - I don't know if they're gonna go to the hairdresser's, and then when they get a haircut or the ladies get a haircut, then they're gonna check if they get an EET receipt or not. I think this debate is going the wrong way. What Minister Dostálová has read is not that thinking hurts. So what did you guys come up with? You've been running this project for six years. Volunteering, it didn't even occur to me. You can't work with data. Yes, we've been there for six months, but six years we say when we have the strength, we'll cancel it. No surprise, our voters expect it from us, your parents expect something different. That's okay, that's why voters don't vote for one side, but they choose from a democratic offer. So if I consider any project to be bad, dysfunctional, bullying, bureaucratic, then why should I invent something to make any of these qualities even worse? [[Time, Minister.]] Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u67	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u68	So I originally wanted to respond to Mr Munzar, but unfortunately I have to address my previous speaker. Like you said, and you mentioned the third wave here, so I'm saying, by having fun with these people, I'm also having fun with those people who are in the third wave and they just have the hairdresser, as you say, and that was a nice example, I'm glad you mentioned it here. There's two hairdressers next to each other. One of the hairdressers, which is my girlfriend, who's honest, she has her employees, she pays for them, and next to the hairdresser who's got a quarc system and she's actually renting her every chair. She says, "I'm the honest one, I pay social, health." He says the third wave should be, because it will straighten the market. That'll straighten the market. There'll finally be justice. How do I get that? But he's right. Minister, if you focus on this, she's right. Because she really has her employees, she's doing everything for them, and she's doing the right thing. And next to a hairdresser who rents chairs and goes to his folks, so basically, she gets into a position that she's not competitive. And that's not fair, is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u69	Thank you. Minister Stanjura, with a factual remark, is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u70	Well, I'm sorry, but the EET has nothing to do with whether anyone has an employee or rents a chair. That's a completely different debate. Is it legal to rent a chair? It's legal. It's legal. You can, but it's legal. [[unintelligible]] So it has nothing to do with EET. And the businessman who does the business, who rents the chair, doesn't pay taxes? He doesn't have expenses, doesn't he have revenue? He takes care of himself, doesn't really want the state, just to give him room for business. What's wrong with that? So the businessman who has employees is okay, and the businessman who only works for himself and doesn't have employees is wrong? Is that how you see a division between businessmen or hairdressers or hairdressers? I didn't. But if I have employees at the salon or renting a chair, it really doesn't have anything to do with EET, but it really doesn't have anything to do with it. That's a completely different debate. Let's keep it when we discuss the labor code. Why not? I'm looking forward to the debate. Every time somebody doesn't know what to do, he says, "But the shvarcsystem, it's terrible. Do we have state authorities here to control the quarc system? We do. Does it work good or bad? I think it's okay. If you think it's working badly, how many times have you made a system change in that office in the eight years you ruled? Did you make any changes there? I don't know, personnel, system. Did you do any better methodical instructions to combat the illegal quarc system? Maybe you could introduce us to the results, if you're saying it's wrong now. What you described is normally a different way of doing business in a hair salon, both legal. And in my opinion, the client doesn't choose whether the person owns a chair or rents it, but what kind of service the particular person, particular lady, or particular man offers him. That's how the client chooses and pays. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u71	Thank you. Another one with Mr Kučera in fact and then Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u72	Thanks for the word. I might add my previous speaker here, Minister Stanjura. The debate is rather narrowed down to the obligation to pay, or to set up an EET, mostly to those restaurants, then, of course, hairdressers. But who are we gonna talk about now in the third and fourth waves? Then we'll talk about doctors, dentists. Those are typical tax-payers, the dentists, huh? We'll talk about legal and accounting activities. Lawyers and civil servants, lawyers and accountants, also typically nonpayers. But these are all sectors that are at risk. We, I think, at the last point, said here what situation the practitioners in these villages are in, that they aren't. Dentists say they're not. Now we're gonna put the EET in there, 'cause they're dirty suspects. They give others, and there are others and other people involved in health care. (?) I think there's a lot of paramedics here, so of course it's gonna concern you, too. I hope you raise your hand for it. [[18.40 hours]] But it concerns another endangered sector, the agricultural sector, that is, plant and livestock production, hunting, food products production. Bakers, pastrymakers, butchers, they're really doing so well now that they'll get an electronic record of sales on the hump. I think that we should not burden these sectors and let them live in these difficult times and, on the contrary, relieve them of their responsibilities and make life easier for them. Electronic records of sales will not relieve anyone, on the contrary, they will load them - dentists, doctors, and food professionals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u73	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u74	I promise you, for the last time today, I'm gonna close it today. I'll just stick to it, and then I'll respond to my previous speakers, that it's a political decision, that even if we find a lot of positive things there, it's just political. Just like we yelled at the eRecipe, it was total nonsense, useless... If it wasn't for erecept, I don't know how we'd survive covid. That's the same thing as this case. It's just that EET has found its own life and lives. And please don't turn it off. Period. It's a political decision. Pull lawyers on me here, pull anybody out. You said they were stealing, or whatever you said, that was pretty interesting information for me, and thank you for that. I think we're gonna focus on that. Well, since you mentioned it here, you always said it was the robbers, that they were stealing or whatever you said it was. So I think it was useless. We're talking about whether to shut down the system or not, whether to let it and leave it voluntarily, that's what we agreed. Yes, you're attacking here, it was supposed to be voluntary before, it wasn't voluntary, but then it's kind of crying over spilled milk, isn't it? I mean, I wasn't here at the time when things were going on, anyway, we can see that the system is working, and we're talking about whether to shut it down or not. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u75	Thank you. Mr Kasal is in fact reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will turn to Mr Kučera by means of you. We talked about insurance in the morning, now we're talking about it - go to the health department, look. In a regular ambulance, you buy vaccines for a million crowns, you issue a number of certificates, we have to give receipts anyway, it's all electronized, and there's evidence of it. As well as study it first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u77	Thank you. Another factual one is Mr Kott, the last so far. Then we have one priority. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I, by your means, to the esteemed chairman of the agricultural committee. Well, it was built a little differently. Of course, we had fun with the fact that the third fourth wave would also involve those who provide services in food and agriculture. Of course, I'm convinced that they're already in the business of their business, of their activities, that means yard sales, sales on the farmer's markets, processing individual agricultural products, that this already works. So I don't think that those who are completely new are involved, that there's a significant percentage of them. There I really can't imagine that today, if someone puts their products or semi-finished products or their production into production, or in normal trade, they wouldn't use EET. So the guy who used it would have kept using it, and the guy who hasn't used it until now, he wouldn't have used it on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u79	Thank you, that was the last in fact, and with priority rights, President Schillerová came forward. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, there's a lot to say here. Minister Stanjur, do you know that the Ministry of Finance is in charge of the Financial Administration? Have you been interested in her work? Of course I don't mean tax controls, but the work system? Probably not. You haven't even filed a tender for the new CEO yet. He hasn't had the Director-General's Financial Administration in months. That's how you care about her activity. Well, if you were interested in the work system - I don't mean specific subjects, you can't do that by law, and I know you're not, I wouldn't suspect - you'd know that you might have a data storage in one city within the Republic that's being managed by about 20 top security officials who have clearance, and they're working with the data. And only 20 officials get to the data, and they do analyses, analyses based on data from the inspection reports and from the EET, and then anonymously send out some incentives for tax controls within the financial authorities based on the analyses. I'm not gonna tell you exactly the ratio now, I haven't been there for a while, and I haven't cared so much about it, but the goal that we wanted to achieve was that they were the only ones who were gonna pick out the incentives for control, and that the percentage of such collection would be minimized by the local tax administrator. Of course, there will always be one, but minimalized. And those are the things we built there and built on them. So don't talk to us about the Czech Social Security Administration, it's obviously a trauma, an age-old trauma, whoever was there. You do not manage the Czech Social Security Administration, I understand that some tasks may be mixed up, but maybe you are more interested in what falls within the Ministry of Finance portfolio. And start by putting out a tender. I've already asked the head of the budget committee if you'd be so kind as to show up and somehow explain to us what you mean in the Financial Administration. Don't tell me there's a deputy, because the deputy doesn't have full competence, and of course he won't be running any major reforms or any shifts if he just doesn't know what to do with him. So I don't understand, I can't imagine why a 16-pound army of tax officials hasn't had a boss in months. That you didn't make a deal with the ex-boss, okay, I'd understand. You want to have a person selected by your appointed selection committee, okay, I understand, I didn't even pry into it, but what I'm going to poke into is that the head of this office hasn't been there in months. And I don't know what you're waiting for, if the new Civil Service Act, so you can put one of your own in there, I don't want to call a friend, so I don't think that would be good for this system. Well, I don't want to deal with this right now, so I believe we're gonna have to talk about it on the budget committee, on one of the closest ones, because I asked for it to be included. However, I would like to comment on this - of course, we could not analyse the basis for compensation from the EET. And you know why not. The hysterical scenes, so there's a minimum of data from the beginning. Or were we supposed to have all the data up to the size of the taxpayer's shoes? There was a minimum of data, and you're good enough. It's enough for the Financial Administration to know about some minimal volume to just sense that there's movement, and then she gets it - if it's a payer, it's easier if it's a default, so it's worse - so she's already making the analysis out of it. So now you've mixed this place up again, just like I've been hearing for years, two things to use against it. [[18.50 hours]] The costs you read -- of course, the costs, I know the tables. Either the costs are with the staff, that is, with the wages of all possible officials, related, unrelated, or it's just the construction of IT and then the operation. The number of 80 to 100 million is the number he provided, and I didn't sit there alone at the voluntary EET seminar, where with your approval there were officials from the Ministry of Finance, so this number was said by the head of the SPCSS Mr Dzurilla. It sounded right from him. You're saying that while it's voluntary - not turned off, voluntary - but I still think it would be worth it. I didn't bring the other paper, but I think I'll know. You've never admitted any debate. You never, although I asked you to -- we met once, to be fair, we didn't say much to each other, then you promised to meet with the deputy, I guess it also happened. But the debate to have representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, representatives of the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, others, such as the Association of Restaurants, Dining Rooms, to be representatives of entrepreneurs, or whoever you want, and we discussed hearing about it, you never admitted that. So you've never looked for the minimal, marginal effort, because you're really caught up in ideology. You guys wrote it down in the election program, you're in the last term, and in the pre-past lack of your own invention and your own ideas, they put it as a mantra, and now you're just gonna cancel it, whatever. So that's it. If you did at least, and I begged you, graduated, or came to this voluntary EET seminar, everyone was there. All these, which - and organized by my colleague Patrik Nacher, however, he will come and certainly talk about it today, and he organized it - invited, they came, there were representatives from various IT companies. He was still there, now I can't remember the association, the traditional Czech store, all the representatives were there. Mr. Minčič from the Chamber of Commerce and others. I don't really remember them all right now. They were there from various IT companies, and we discussed it. There were also representatives of the Ministry of Finance, but they answered more questions, not that they were actively performing there. And it just sounded unisono. But you're afraid of the debate. You're just afraid of her, because the debate would be factual, constructive, and it would be clear that most of those entrepreneurs just want it. And the motivation, too, can be found. I know they've been presented to you on their behalf - and it's better if it's from them than me, and I've been talking, you can name me when I'm talking about the controls. Of course. Control, you weren't here when I showed the charts, three years later, and there they were, and that's the data from the Financial Administration, of course, at the time I was the secretary, that the number of checks had dropped. There's been an increase in finding rate, a decrease in the number of checks. This means that someone is registering in the EET, of course, can be taken into account within the selection criteria - and why also? If they're just gonna be in some database, then I don't think there's any reason to go into control unless, of course, they're involved in something else, like VAT, so I don't quite narrow it down. And there are other factors that I know have been presented to you because I am also represented by the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, but who spoke for a large business community, especially those of medium and smaller, so I know that he has discussed it with you and with me. There are other motivational factors. He was talking about some kind of racket recognition of tips, like an advantage. He was talking about the control activity, he was just talking about the others - I left the paper on the table over there, but I'm sure I'll come here in the meantime - about other incentives, and I could discuss it. Of course, if you took the professional apparatus, other representatives came in neutral, neutral, we'd definitely move on. And it wouldn't just be about the political ideology where you narrow it down. You're in the grip of that political ideology and you're pushing us. You say you came up with it, your flagship, so it must remain at all costs. It's not like that. It's not like that. It's just that five years have passed here, or six years have passed, and that perception has changed completely. Totally diametrical. As you say, no one will keep an iPad from 2016, yes, you're right, even I don't have a phone from 2016, I agree with you, so the public perception of EET after the experience and the years have simply shifted. But you didn't admit the debate at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u81	Thank you. With the de facto minister - so with priority. She's not factual, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u82	Two minutes wouldn't be enough. I'm quite amused, Madame, that I'm afraid of debate. Well, I'm not scared, am I? And not EET at all. I have quite accurate information about what was said at the seminar. I couldn't for time reasons, but there were people from the Treasury, so I have information. I've discussed this with the Chamber of Commerce and with my Deputys. I discussed this with the representative of the Small and Medium Enterprises Association and with the professional apparatus that was there with me at the meeting. I'm not taking back anything I said. I am interested in the sentence - you must have been mistaken, Madame, at least I hope so - when you told us that twenty officials anonymously evaluate the data and then determine where the check is to go. Either a) it's anonymous, then I can't determine where the check is going, or it's not anonymous. I just can't imagine it any other way. But it's not like that. Yes, you said let's forgive the controls. Well, I think it has to be controlled. So other than the sales you're fixed on like this, you have to check the costs of whether they're tax-recognizable or not. It is very controversial in many cases. Not that I want to, but it's questionable. [[unintelligible]] My favorite debate about what a repair is and what a technical asset assessment is. This is an issue on which there is no uniform interpretation. And it is very often different from the territorial workplace to the territorial workplace of the interpretation. And I'm saying, there may not be a bad intention at all. It's just not easy. It's the Financial Administration. No more kneeling. I don't think the YES movement should say anything about how it ran the Financial Administration. They were just kneeling at companies. Look at the media-famous cases where the state was losing one dispute after another. He was kneeling at companies. And it was stated not by the opposition, but by independent courts. Yes, I'm waiting for a new law. Because this narrow choice of boss or chief of the Financial Administration is just wrong. I don't have a chosen member in advance. If I had, like you, I often staged so-called independent selection procedures for a lot of things, and that person could have been there by now. I want this drive to be open and that whoever has the best project wins. So, just so you know, except for the service bill that fixed the officials who came after Sobotka's government was established, that means whoever worked for the state a while ago doesn't count for the practice at all, that's what I call cleverly cementing the state administration with my people. So it must be with the Chief of Financial Administration that he has to work at the Ministry of Finance or Financial Administration for five years in order to participate at all. Is that open driving? Is this an open contest for the best project? No. I was clearly saying that, and I said that at a meeting with all the regional finance directorates - I'm talking to them. It's your advice to me if you're interested - what do you think I'm doing? Of course I care. I told everyone that the kneeling was over and that I wanted a client approach. And that I want to hear it from the new boss or the head of the Financial Administration, because it has to change and it has to change from above. I know that many who are on that last line have client access. But they were spoiled by those, whether at the General Financial Directorate or the Appeals Department, who were losing the financial disputes and behind which there are cases of cursing, and there is no excuse for that. I told them openly that I would launch the tender when the law was changed, so it would be open. And I think we're able to build an independent selection committee. And let's evaluate the selection when it's done. I think the Minister has a duty, or the Minister has a duty to defend the choice of a particular person. And say in advance who it's gonna be if it's gonna be? I believe he'll win the best project. He's an authorised deputy, he's a statutory representative. I told all regional directors that he had my trust and that he had full competence to run it 100%. There isn't one. [[unintelligible]] I don't want to have a debate today about EET, about your headlines, how you're done digitalizing. It's a disaster. It's a disaster. [[19.00 hours]] You have decided that there was no other way that the Committee on Budgets could unfortunately meet on Wednesday. So you can put information on the program for the selection process. I told you here, Wednesday it's just a government meeting, and I can't come to the budget committee. But there's no problem, so write me an interview, or I gave you an answer today. Yeah, I'm gonna launch a tender the moment the law changes so it can be as open as possible, and I'm gonna want him to win the best project. In the meantime, however, we do not sleep, we work on key digitization projects, we work in a completely different way, because when I came to the Ministry, the target status of those key digitization projects was not defined. He wasn't. That's no way to make a successful digitalization if I don't know where I'm going. It's a blind trip, maybe it'll work, maybe it won't. But this approach that was chosen was always just: I have a great project here, I have a great project here. If you look at it and ask, what's under the heading? nic. I'm bohužel so. It's like the new Income Tax Act that Andrej Babiš already handed over to you in the records. And it wasn't. So I would ask you not to tell me such sentences -- of course you can -- as you take care of the Financial Administration. I really don't need that kind of advice. Let's talk about how the Financial Administration is supposed to function in a process, what processes are to be there, how to circulate documents, how to be digitized, whether or not territorial jurisdiction is needed in the 21st century. I don't think so. That's all the debate I'm prepared to have with my people, with the management of the Financial Administration, for six months. But I don't need a press conference to do it three times a week to say that we've already had one meeting and that we have a great project because we don't have the target status yet. Vendor lock, you've only deepened your operation. So you solved it, you just put in another degree and you deepened the vendor lock and it's not easy to get out of it. And it's not going to be revolutionary, it's going to be evolutionary. All of this I am prepared to discuss in detail, but not at this point, because if we don't cancel, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs will have a new obligation from 1 January. And that's not a political decision, that's the right decision. It would be a wrong move, which is why we came up with it. And someone said in the debate, I'm sorry, I don't know exactly who it was: don't turn off the EET, please don't turn it off. But it's off. You turned it off yourself. With our involvement. I'm saying we liked to support it, but you had most of it without us. So the EET is off. And at the end of the year, the shut down will be two and three quarters of a year. So the end of those fairy tales, how great it is now, it's gonna be bad since January 1st. Either it's bad today -- and you turned it off -- or nothing changes, just one bureaucratic duty will go down. And I insist that I didn't get any relevant argument for a voluntary EET. I'm bohužel not. I wasn't prejudiced, I attended those meetings, it wasn't just an act. I don't know. I said the same thing to the Chamber of Commerce when we discussed it, it was all theirs - I think it's called the board of directors, and it was a long, two-hour meeting. And when I said to them, "what would we offer to those who have a voluntary EET?" So I didn't actually learn any good ideas, because we'll only know part of the cash sales. What about the VAT guys? I don't even have a check report there. So how am I able, if someone gives 50,000 cash payments or 40,000, how does that state know how many non-cash payments were made to VAT payers who don't file a check report or quarterly payers? I check once a quarter of a year? What's the point? Why am I sending control? How will I control VAT unpaid, for example, from income tax, which would be an EET burden? How do you do control in business one-on-one with a painter, plumber, repairman, repairman who comes home to you? There's no answer to that. Even if I imagine, who's gonna check it out, if it's one-on-one, there's no clerk there, it's not a public establishment, there's a service going on somewhere in the apartment or in the house or in the garden? If anyone has a political perspective, it's you. Not us, we've had the same arguments since the beginning of 2015 or when the debate started. Where is Father EET Andrej Babiš all day today? I am not here forty minutes or an hour, I told Madam President in advance, I told her that I have important negotiations that I cannot move, she has granted me to hear this: you have not been here, you have not heard. So where's Andrej Babiš to hear the whole debate? Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u83	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Jan Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u84	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So I'm about to make my speech, which I was about to do, it's gonna be completely different than I thought, after what I'm hearing here, but now I have to get off. What demagogy and how unfair the argument is made by Minister Stanjura, if he dares to say - well, I can't go to those budget committees because you guys have set a deadline for the budget committee on Wednesday. Minister, I've been here since 2013. In 2012, Nečasův' government was still in control and you had Parliament under control. Since then, Wednesday at 9 o'clock is the Committee on Budgets. At present, after eight years, you are once again in the hands of the Committee on Budgets as a coalition, and it is with a colleague from STAN. So why didn't you change that, and why are you saying here - you guys made a budget committee on Wednesday, and that's why I can't do it because we have a government? Please be correct. You usually are. I didn't like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u85	Thank you. And now with the priority right of President Schillerová. I just dare to read before I give you my word, my apologies. The Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the day for health reasons, Minister Ivan Bartoš also apologizes from 18.00 to 19.15, Mr Jaroslav Bašta Brož from 17.30 to 20.30 for work reasons and Mrs Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková from 18.00 to the end of the day for work reasons. And now, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, Minister Stanjur... It's not 2016 anymore, and I'm not afraid of your arrogant performances like when I was an inexperienced deputy and you raised your voice and taught us and intimidated us. Not long ago. I won't be afraid of your demagogic half-truths long ago. It's not true. When you finish as Minister of Finance, and one beautiful day it will be, at the latest at the end of this term, when you succeed, we will compare what has been done in our term, and I stand by it, and what will be done for you. You're not telling the truth. You're not telling the truth, you're being unserious, you're getting old information. If you'd like to know, you know that we've already settled the repair and technical evaluation today, this problem. Yes, it was a problem of interpretation, it was handled by the courts, and it was difficult for them. So you'd know. That he works there or there is a group - depending on what political assignment you have now given - the Income Tax Act. Yes, it existed there, it was quite in a decent phase. And on the basis of the agreement, and here I said it several times, on the basis of the agreement again with the representatives of the unions, the Association of Accountants and I don't know which everyone, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, so I put on their recommendation that this be settled in due course with the Accounting Act. You know he's going on, I've read somewhere that you've said that you've boasted that we're going to introduce simplified accounts for foreign companies. Of course, all this has been worked out and the foundation has been laid in the last parliamentary term. [[19.10 hours]] But the new Income Tax Act has a different problem. It's not a problem to write it. There's plenty of experts in there. Definitely terminology and legislative would be fine, but if there is no major change, there are major cuts in tax exemptions, which is in a way tax increases, I know very well that we had the debates and, with any exception, I came here, and I managed them for about 13 billion - 12.7, no matter how precise - we were able to cancel here, so each was a huge fight for those 100 million boiler rooms. I remember bleeding in the barricades here. And if there isn't a major deflation of the Income Tax Act, there's no point. What I am completely here is overwhelming information, and I understand that you will not come to the budget committee - what we will do, you have chosen Wednesday, shortened the House's meeting day. So it seems catastrophic to me to express myself that way. You sat on the budget committee for years. I remember you pissing me off a few times, that I took the liberty - I was walking quite regularly. I think that my attendance as Minister of Finance was quite exemplary for the Committee on Budgets - so if I didn't come at some point, because of course I had other work obligations too, I hope you can see today that the Minister must do something else too, so you had a whole series of comments about it. So -- and here you go, I won't come, I won't, I won't come, because it's the government. But what you said is worse. What you confessed. That you just want to get on your guy's financial management. That had some meaning. I wasn't there when the Civil Service Act was adopted. I didn't have any influence on it. I was over there somewhere... working somewhere in Brno. But it's got something to do with it. We can debate whether it should be five years, ten years, that's the second thing, but only a person in that system is able to understand the processes effectively, know them and manage them effectively. That means in other words, you just want to untie the rules of the Civil Service Act so that you can plant your man, your puppet, which you will drive and which you will politicize, that's the politicalization of the Financial Administration, and that's what I'm very afraid of, and I'm going to be very loud about it. Because if this has ever been done well by one of my predecessors, and this is ex-minister Kalousek - I also publicly commended him here once - it was depoliticizing the Financial Administration. It's that he's put her out of his league. That he separated her from the Ministry of Finance and it became January 1st, 2013 I suspect that I am wrong, I think so, it has become basically a separate system of organs Financial administration, as well as Customs administration, as well as then under my duties, or maybe under Andrej Babiš, to speak accurately, but under our work, for example, the Financial Analysis Office, which also ceased to be a separate office, or ceased to be a union within the Ministry of Finance. And this is the right way. And that system should generate from its center a person who understands that. Who simply apolitically, regardless of whether or not you or me or anyone else are the Minister, directs the Financial Administration and does not allow it to interfere with processes such as tax control, which must never be interfered with. And believe me, I've been in that system for a very long time, and luckily, thanks to my strong nature, I've always resisted anything at all, and now I think, when I was at the lower levels, I could tell a story at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u87	I also thank the President of the ANO Group of Parliament of the ANO movement, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Good evening. I've taken over the meeting. Your performance brought up two factual points. With the first Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u88	In this debate between a man and a woman, a man is at a disadvantage because you insult me all the time and you say I'm arrogant. But I will not return the same to you because it is not appropriate, and sometimes read a bunch of insults that you are capable of in three minutes, and they are yet to be praised as you are helpful, kind, yet insulting your political opponents. Well, I'm up for it, you said I wanted to have some in there, that I wanted to put my Chief of Financial Administration in there. [[A colleague is speaking with Mrs Schiller.]] Well, I'll wait, I'm in no hurry. You insulted me, but also the future boss or the head of the Financial Administration, because you said I wanted to put my puppet in there. For that we have a nice Czech proverb, without calling ourselves Madam President, through Madam Vice-President: in my opinion, I am judging you. That was the biggest insult you've ever said here. And yet you've praised how resilient you are, great, good I don't know what everything is. I won't judge, I could see how the former CEOs worked. And how much trouble they were in. And who chose them. Suddenly, when you were there from the YES movement, it was an independent selection committee that chose them, nothing changed and changed, but when the YES movement doesn't sit there, the independent selection committee doesn't really exist, and the minister sets his puppets there. In my opinion, I'm judging you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u89	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. I see that, with a factual point, Mrs President could have had the right of priority, Mrs Alena Schillerová reporting with a factual point. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u90	But, Minister, I wasn't talking about the selection committee, you're going to put together a plus or minus just like me probably from officials who - I don't know who else would be on that selection committee. I don't think politicians are. That would be the top of the line. So I'm not talking about her, I'm talking about the terms. Because if the conditions are binding to some extent by the law that the person must have had practice in that particular system, that is, something he did there, he knows the system, and probably when he was in the lead, he stepped on the reporter's, too, so the committee doesn't have a lot of options. And please, I know... I don't think we're gonna be insulting. I'm not talking about anyone in particular, so I could hardly offend anyone. I could hardly offend someone who wasn't there and who we don't know who it was. But you're specific, since you're so consistent, you've already offended. You insulted the previous CEO of the Financial Administration. And I'm not aware that at least the last one would have been misbehaved. She's been in the system for over 30 years and left behind a piece of honest work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u91	Thank you, Madam President, for keeping time. Another factual point, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u92	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I would like to respond to my colleague Schillerová through you. Well, let's just say, the openness of a possible tender doesn't rule out that the best one can be from the inside. It's just a bigger fan for choice. But in connection with that, I wanted to ask, because I was very interested in this debate, even though it is not directly related to this press, if really the best was the CEO Martin Janeček, with whom the abuse of hedge orders came, their overuse, when the Financial Administration started losing a lot of disputes based on the abuse of certain instruments? We all remember, we discussed it here in the past period, that he gave instructions on how to reward Financial Administration controllers so that they would be directly interested in the amount of the fine imposed, or tax retention and so on. So I was wondering if this was the right way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u93	Thank you for keeping time. That was the last point of fact. And now we are returning to the general debate, where Mr Jan Volný is duly signed up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u94	Thank you so much. The unbelievable has become a deed. Please, I've been pretty sophisticated around here, like, with some numbers, charts. But from what I've heard here, I've written down a few notes here, and I'm not going back to that. For one thing, my colleagues here, Madam President of our club, said a lot of things, but I'm worried that if I were to say really sum up the true numbers and facts here, then someone would come out here and say that they're fairy tales of a sheep's grandmother, and they would read me one torn sentence out of the explanatory report and say that I'm a liar. [[19.20 hours]] I would like to start my speech by pouting our chair of the MP's club that he and such people respond at all, if anyone - and here, Minister, you haven't been and you haven't heard this when a Member who has been a politician since he was 20 years old, started as secretary of the KDU-ČSL Senator's Club, tells someone who has been working for a living, or did 20 years at the Financial Administration, and then did the Deputy Finance and the Minister that he's a dilettante and that he's been telling crap and fairy tales, so I'm asking you not to. And if this seems fair and fair to you... [[He's turning to Minister Stanjure.]] You weren't here, it's not your fault, so I just wouldn't want this, I wouldn't want to wait. Such discussions, as colleagues here are pulling out of a hat like Mr Kučera, that we would burden those poor butchers, who now have their hands full with the energy crisis, the next load, yet they have already paid for the EET, and that they need to be free of their hands, which means he told them to help themselves as they can, so let them sort it out. I just don't want that. I must admit - except for the budget committee, which I will not forget you, Minister - that you are an amazing rhetoricist and your things are from some point of view, one can say, even true, but that EET and like every law or every activity in the life of the nations, people are black and white, sometimes there is nothing white and nothing black. And I thought today we were gonna talk about taking a look at this EET, evaluate what it did positively, what it did negatively, and why it would be good to keep it at least in the voluntary sphere. But you just look at it from that side and you choose everything that was negative, and we also can't say that EET was positive in everything, and you just explain in flame words how bad it is and how it must be trampled into the ground. And that's what politics is all about. That means you admitted to the end - yes, it is a political decision, it has nothing to do with the fact that a lot of billions could be collected that could be used now for the biggest unfortunates in the energy crisis. You have forgotten in your speech that it really levelled the business environment, but politically you are always - and I have to admit that, and I'm not saying it like it's wrong - you always said that EET is wrong. And I once said yes to one of you on TV, but you wanted to put in those registers, and then it didn't work out, and we want the better system. And you got so angry. If you remember, he insulted that - never and registration treasures, it's even worse than EET, never! That was socani, and we didn't... Well, yes, but today, the MP, the chairman of the agricultural committee, said -- the EET is wrong, well, let's talk about the register boxes, that would be the solution, we see as... And I said it's a shame that a colleague isn't here... [[Voice off the microphone.]] Yeah, but I don't blame you for being gone, I know it was arranged - because he would take a shovel and drive you out of here. That's not what I'm saying. That's it, I know you've always denied it, even the register. I'd like to take a look at this really maybe a little laymanly and reminisce. I wore a black tie today because I consider it my baby's funeral because none of you who sit here got slapped so much and wasn't as big a slap shot in the EET program and promoting the EET as I was. Is that true, Minister? It is. All the TV discussions that I took with Minister Stanjura, Mr Kalousek, with Mr Skopeček. I started discussing it on the outside. It was basically our first election theme in 2013, when we were already talking about us wanting to dust off the idea of registration cash registers again, then it evolved into EET, and the world, wonder!, people understood it and we got from zero to 19 percent and actually immediately got into government. It already means something, because it was really the central theme, the central theme of our elections. And when I say that I was getting my ass kicked and slapped and slapped from the beginning to this bitter end, I'll describe it to you. So it was the beginning when these people really didn't understand it, my friends argued with me, good friends explained to me how destructive it was, and I explained to them why it was done and how it was done and how it was going to be, and the world, wonder!, they started to understand it, I'm not saying that they jumped a meter high, but then somehow they admitted that they had something to do with it, and they started working with it. The second kick I got was -- and I have to say that here, my colleague -- when the start of the third and fourth wave was suspended, but I would understand, that would probably not be happy there, but that even the one, the two, stopped. I just wasn't able to get over it, I realized that it was a policy that he was a covid, it was awkward, but I couldn't bear it internally, and I told the Prime Minister inconspicuously at the time, of course I heard something, but maybe it had a reason, and maybe it had a philosophy, but at the time those people who told me we were introducing EET to me were saying, "Honzo, what the hell are you doing?" It worked, we all use it, why are you stopping it now? And the third slapping shot is now when the EET is to be completely canceled. And I think the pressure of my friends, my friends, who put it in those little pubs, and I'm from a small village, and we have a couple of pubs, and they sense that it has something in it, and they say, "Why are you interrupting? I say, well, we're not interrupting it, but it's canceled because 108 is 108. So it's just the kind of trauma that I carry with me. Yes, I wore a black shirt, but I didn't think I'd cry. But after Mr. Jakob showed me the tear on that black tie, because if those people who know about the economy, about taxes and about this issue know as much as he does, their hand will lift up and their voice cancels EET, that's really for the tears, and I'm sure I'm gonna cry a lot more tonight after the vote. So I'd keep going. I would just like to point out that I was happy to do the work around the EET - and very actively, I was happy to do it at the time - the KDU-ČSL members and many who have voted with us and who have carefully and carefully prepared it with us are sitting here with us and will vote in favour of this cancellation today or in the coming months. When we were starting to create this EET, we really were based on world and European experience, and at that time 19 EETs had - or EETs, sorry, records of sales from 24 countries in the European Union. The EET was such a phenomenon, but the phenomenon was being copied by the Rakušan, I don't know if they made it. They had register cash registers and they wanted to flip it over to electronic... like us. But I don't know how it turned out, I wouldn't want to bring that here right now. However, the electronic evidence was a progressive step, and there was a shift compared to the classic register tellers when the financial administration rolls had to be handed in every month. [[19.30 hours]] I've been here a couple of times when we had a long discussion about whether or not we had small farmers' markets, whether or not we had these small stores or not, I set an example for Sweden here, and that's still valid, where Sweden introduced a record of sales and separated a small part of the fish sellers on the coast of Sweden, and after two years they included them because they found it was breaking up their balance and the seriousness of the market in fish sales. So Sweden, where I consider them a very correct state, people there are not used to not paying taxes, just like in Germany, so they just cleaned up the portfolio this hard and put in the record of sales like this. One example. I was in Stockholm at my son's graduation, and I had a mania for a while, and I was shopping for little glasses of honey from all over the world, and I was at the market to buy a glass of honey. So I ordered, I put three euros like this, the gentleman wrapped me in a bag of honey, and I left, and he ran to me through the square, and he stuffed the sign, I say, I don't want it, no, you have to take it, then do whatever you want with it. That's the second example. I was with Mr. Václav Votava, he was the head of the budget committee at the time, most of you know him here, we were in South Korea. And on such a busy street, we met this little booth, no booth, it was something even smaller than this, two sticks, one upstairs, and there were four hand-painted ties hanging on it. [[shows the speaker's counter]] And he's gonna buy one home. So, like, 80-year-old grandpa, yeah, yeah, yeah, so he chose, he took the tie off, he reached under the table, he took out the box, he took out the silk paper, he wrapped it, he put the tie in it, he took out the box, he painted it, he ripped off the note, he put it in the box, and he handed it to him like this. [[He's showing the whole picture.]] And at the time, we looked at each other and we said, well, if people felt that way about us, I guess it would have been easier. I'll keep going. The first wave has successfully ended. The kind of crazy stuff like it's gonna shut down the system, it's not gonna work, it's obviously vanished, and it's worked perfectly from the very beginning. And I think that you, too, as opposition, were completely surprised. However, we prepared a second and third wave. The memorialists remember how one of my MPs, a devious and gloating colleague, I will not name him, invented that if we approved the second and third wave of EET, that it could not be approved by smahem, but that we had to approve it after individual customs items, which were at that time about 850, which were to be voted on. I had a chair here, I was pale, weak, but I voted for this gloating for 12 hours. But now I don't mean it badly. You were just a badass, you figured it out, and we just went for it. And I didn't want to, but my colleagues said yes, if somehow it would be easier to approve, it would be done. I would be interested, Minister, if I were to say, "We can't cancel the EET with just one vote." Mr. Munzar, you're the rapporteur, let's cancel and come vote 850 items. [[President: Through the President.]] Take the chair over here, yes, take the chair over here for 12 hours and let's vote. We can't cancel the EET with one vote. - You take your word for it. I wonder if you'll tell me you'd be in favour of letting Mr. Munzar practice here for 12 hours. Colleagues, that's about it. I just really want to say again that I am sad that this is really tonight, if it moves to second reading, I will cry because I am actually convinced that it makes sense, I am actually convinced that half of Europe, including Ital, Švéd, Němec, Rakušan, are not complete idiots, and that relationship with their businessmen and entrepreneurs is certainly better in the long run than with us, because we didn't even know what it meant until 1989. And for them to abuse their businessmen like that, that doesn't make any sense to me. And every time I do something, but even in the family, I always look across the border, I don't get far, and I see how they do it, because, as someone said right here, we don't make up a bike when they figure it out. I'm sorry to hear that, because I'm convinced that it has something in it, and all the more so, that it's already run-down, all the more so, that the unions that are involved in it are themselves saying, "Why are you interrupting this? At least leave it on its own. If I don't really understand what it would do, a voluntary EET, but why wouldn't the first and second waves run the way they run? I mean, they're for the device. And when the little innkeepers themselves say, "Honzo, what are you doing?" We went for it, we bought it, we got used to it, and now you're gonna cancel it? Well, they'll probably survive, too, you're right. It just turns off the rooster like that. They're gonna be running those bills anyway. But it just doesn't make a lot of sense. And the last thing I want to do - it wasn't just Minister Stanjura, it was others who were picking on - even the rapporteur, where is he?, over there somewhere - they were picking on the Financial Administration and the kneeling and the courts. Let me put it this way. Of course, people are just people, and the activities of the Financial Administration are huge. I didn't work there, but I can imagine. I know when I go to the IRS in Tachov, I know what kind of machine it is. And I have to say, during the days of the Ministry's administration, Mr. Babiš and the people who took the lead in the Financial Administration, the Financial Administration certainly improved its quality. But I'm not denying there were any mistakes. I do not deny that in zeal, people may have been kneeling more than they should have. I don't even accept the legitimacy of a court saying, here you are, state, erring, and you better fix it. That's normal in these huge numbers. But when we're talking about some stabilization, about EET, and you guys are bragging about how badly the Financial Administration was working... We've seen it, Minister. The principal used to come here to talk to us. He was an honest and incredibly hardworking kid, perhaps more agile than he was. That's right. But here to bring it up and say, you guys did it all fucked up, we're gonna do it better? Well, it's politics. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u95	I think we should speak more politely, Mr. Ambassador, here. And I remind you that we can address ministers directly, but MEPs address each other through the President. Now the factual points - Mr Jakob, Mr Kučera will be prepared, followed by Minister Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u96	Thank you. I have to really respond here to what has been said. They say I'm pulling out of context. But I'm afraid it's you, Mr Volný, through Madam President. And I have to retreat. I certainly didn't tell your club president that she was a dilettante. I wouldn't dare do that in my life, and that's what I'm defending myself against. I told you he was throwing up wannabe myths and telling a story. Yeah, that's what I said. But nothing about dilettanteism, certainly not. [[19.40 hours]] But you're pulling out of context and out of my résumé. You rip what you want. Yes, I was Secretary of the KDU-ČSL Senate Club. Coincidentally, at that time my colleague in the Chamber of Deputies was a secretary who is now secretary of your club. But I would never allow myself to work as secretaries, whether clubs, committees, or committees, however dehonest, as you did a moment ago, Mr Volný, through Madam President. They don't often have an easy time with us, and their work is important. I honestly don't care that you think anything of my erudition. For me, the results of my work are important. And for example, in a town where I've been building a city budget for 12 years, I'm running investments, so I can tell, and that's what's important to me. You were here ripping something out of co-worker Kučera's speech. He'll probably be back in a minute. So the results are important. [[Time!]] And I firmly believe that the outcome of our work today will lead to the satisfaction of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u97	I beg you to keep your time. I will also ask Mr Kučera to prepare Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u98	Thank you for the floor. To tell you the truth, I am touched by the way Mr. Volný says goodbye to EET emotionally, even wearing a black tie and tears. I'm really, really touched. It's such a very touching story to say goodbye to such a senseless law. But I would also respond to a few inaccuracies. Well, there were quite a few, but I'll respond to a few, which Mr. Volný here said. If you've read the book Zdeněk Jirotka, he's somewhere in the end that grandfather Mr Oulický and Saturnin will create an office for setting novel stories straight. So Mr. Volný would supply them fully. Maybe I mentioned what he said about the register cashiers, how I'd like to introduce them. I mentioned that in connection with the fact that if I cry, I'll tell big businesses that they're being robbed by employees, let them get register cash registers there - voluntarily, not stately. And that's exactly what I said. Look it up in the log. If they want to, they feel that employees are stealing from them, it won't be worth dealing with, but whether they solve it themselves by registering cash registers or any other type of electronic systems. Likewise, please take a look, Mr Volný, through Madam President, what is the content of the third and fourth waves. You'll see exactly the businesses you mentioned here that they don't belong there. And please don't really add any more work to the office for setting novel stories straight. And just to conclude, I'd like to show you a receipt from the Austrian boarding house. Hand written here paragon - apartment type A, bezahlt 16. 3, danke, signature, hand-written amount. So much for the Austrian EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u99	Thank you for keeping time. Now, the de facto remark made by Minister Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u100	So I would like to appreciate that Mr Volný and I have maintained consistent views throughout the debate on the EET. He was a zealous supporter and I was a zealous opponent. I confirm that we've had a lot of media fights together, even here. He said I was gloating, I think in those amendments, so I confess that I was looking for inspiration abroad and I was far from achieving what really caught my eye. I don't know now... The MP completely dismantled me. I don't know if that's... [[The Free Member shall telephone and leave the Chamber.]] Then it won't be as hot about the fate of the EET as I feared a moment ago. Otherwise, I understand. I was inspired in France. Now I do not know whether it was done by the left or right - the left or right - but they blocked one bill by filing over 20,000 amendments. And the government gave up because it wouldn't be 12 hours, maybe 12 months of voting. So I was very modest in that regard. I have put in really about 850 amendments, but if we forgive ourselves for 12 hours of debate today and 12 hours of second reading and 12 hours of third reading and agreed to vote for 12 hours, we will take the offer. Mr Munzar's gonna make it, I'll take it too, maybe we'll take turns as long as we stand, but you'll have to promise us that we'll forgive ourselves for the three or twelve hours, because the way we knew we'd lose in the end, it's just when you're in a minority, so the math is relentless, so this time we know we're gonna win the vote. If you want to repeat 12 hours of voting, we will accept the offer, but we would have to agree that we will not be able to have the debate because it will only happen again. I don't mean it badly. You're gonna say how good it is, and your arguments... [[Time!]] Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u101	We are now returning to the general debate. Mr Marek Novák is enrolled and Mr David Štolpa can prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be denied, perhaps the current government could be praised for the urgency of fulfilling some of the promises and certain measures that they have declared before the elections. What is interesting, however, is that these are usually steps that will upset the state sector and put it under quite pressure. This is a latent privatization into pre-defined hands and just under the motto: people will do well here and here is their list. I would have expected you to be fierce on a much different subject than this one. But this measure is just like that, and at the very moment when the economy of our state is being tested as never, when every crown that is to be spent has to turn twice, and this is where the EET negotiations belong today? It's certainly a premeditated step in style: the government's a good guy, the government's not rubbing it off, Stanjura turned on Babiš and so on. And even in the rhetoric of my previous speakers and the exchange of views, unfortunately, that's how it sounds. In fact, this large group of enthusiasts, including government officials, and some of you Members, in the best case, have no idea what he's actually raising his hand to. From my point of view and from what signals are actually coming to me from the public sector, but also from the business sector, so it is up against the vast majority of entrepreneurs. I remember very well, honourable Members, and many of you who were sitting there at the time certainly also, what kind of Martyrs and negative reactions we went through as a movement when we, in the YES movement, brought this really functioning model into the management of the Czech economy. We had a strong and influential group of entrepreneurs who did not treat the state as completely fair economic operators, and, unfortunately, by dictionary, some of you have optimized their sales and diverted them. Despite all the obstacles and blubbering comparable to the storms of craftsmen during the introduction of machines in the industrial revolution in the UK, it turned out that a tool has been squeezed into the domestic economy, whose meaning is not based on telling, as is unfortunately historical fashion in our regions, but just an instrument that helps businessmen and entrepreneurs. In the ordinary course of trade, the receipt or invoice is a normal integral part of the complaint process. In the operations of modern gastronomy, there are still growing possibilities of card payment as a normal part of the payment process. However, here it must be said that I, too, was not entirely happy with the interruption of the first, second wave of EET, and I think that not only me but also many of you noticed at some of the restaurant facilities, that at that moment not only did EET stop, but also that they stopped taking credit card payments. [[19.50 hours]] Additional secondary indicators can be created for restaurant owners or craft workshops from such a mapped flow of finance and can then help them to further route or expand their business. And yes, as has already been said here, the state has data, and thanks to the previous government, which somehow failed to make use of it, I don't think any of you sitting here knows that the most valuable system is not the IT system itself, but the data. And now we're gonna voluntarily disown them? I don't believe it. The honourable Members, their relationship and position had to be changed by the state, or by the financial authorities. In particular, if investment in technology and the pressure on employees' expertise were not affected, this was a change in operation. Yes, there were labor pains. It was the financiers who went through childhood diseases and after their recovery the relationship between the office and entrepreneurs began to function better, more flexibly, more efficiently, but mainly electronically. And so I am thinking, isn't this way also a wider part of the needs of digitizing the Czech economy? I understand the objection to the so-called faggot, but you, Minister, can limit it with reasonable settings today. One of the most painful moments of the introduction of the EET system was the initial cost to the technology and data tariffs, which everyone had to pull out of their pockets. Eventually everyone did it in the belief that the state knows what it's doing, the system will develop somehow, just that it makes sense. The most criticism fell on us just as we stopped the system and when the entrepreneurs told us: Why are you doing this? That's what we want. Today, after six years, I repeat this again, at the most sensitive moment for the economy of the Czech Republic for the reasons we are talking about over and over again, the five-wheelers want to dance their winning Verbuňk. He's probably gonna dance with the voices. Well, what do you think's gonna happen? It almost pisses everyone off that one government's gonna implement something and the other one's gonna shut it down. But that is you, Minister, as you said today about this objection, one thing. You have every right to be. I don't care if people jump the way the current government thinks they are. And it's sad. The honest and prudent would still use the system because it helps them and get used to it, but at least that would have to keep EET voluntary. I do not know what arguments you were convinced by the Chamber of Commerce, which you mentioned here, but it is in the context of the commentary procedure that I think, although they did not take this as a fundamental comment, but as a general comment, they certainly had it supported and for me their arguments were factual and clear. It's actually voluntary and optional today, because, unfortunately, it's off. Well, a bunch of clever people who optimized and diverted will be able to peacefully return to their business and gray economies. Does it seem normal to you that an entrepreneur does business because he can charge the tax to his customer, but he won't take it away from the state anymore? And when the state wants him to pay the tax, he says, "You're killing me." Is that normal? I guess so. Madam, honourable Members, in my opinion, a sensible government would first consider the matter very precisely, become familiar with the real consequences, with the opinions of both the expert and the wider public in more detail, and then take action. After all, remember that the introduction of the EET system did not take place from Sunday to Monday at once, but in stages, each stage being evaluated and very detailed. After all, it has already fallen that the system has brought about about as much money to the economy every year as the government wants to take away health insurance companies today. Personally, as a member of the Economic Committee, I would advocate such dialogue and evaluation. Let's do the voluntary EET. Let's give these entrepreneurs a fair game. Why not? Why couldn't the state help them? Unfortunately, it is clear to me that I cannot find common ground with the group "the five of us" in this punkt. And I'm so sorry. Indeed, as Chairman TOP 09 says, and very conveniently, the government is not here for the people. That's what this is about. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u103	Now I'm going to load the apologies and then there's going to be a 15-minute break because the minister really spends all afternoon here, there's no other minister here, so it's agreed that there's a 15-minute break, hygiene, you might say. So I'll read the apologies first. Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská apologizes between 18:00 and midnight, i.e. until the end of the day, for family reasons, Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes from 17:00 to the end of the day without giving reason, and then Mr Roman Bělor apologizes from 19:30 to the end of the hearing due to illness. So now I'm declaring 15 minutes, let's say it's not so complicated from the point of view of time, a few more minutes, so we would meet here at 20.15. It's a 19-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, the break for the petitioner in particular has already expired. I have another cancellation of my apology, Mr. Lipavský, specifically from 20 o'clock. So we are now continuing the debate, which will follow up with Mr Štolpa's speech. Next up, Mrs. Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the abolition of electronic sales records, and I have the feeling, not only on the basis of this, but also on the basis of other ideas and government proposals from recent months and weeks, that all meaningful and functional government is shutting down and, on the contrary, the more nonsense, the more force it is trying to push and overwhelm here in the House. We should discuss how the government is helping people in the current situation of high prices, or why it is not helping at all. The government should explain to us how it helped people its famous reduction in excise duty on fuel when gasoline and diesel prices are attacking their historical boundaries these days. Or the government should answer to the House, as it is with the connection of some of its members to the Czech underworld and organized crime. The government simply can't take care of itself, let alone take care of citizens and their needs. Instead, we are standing here now and discussing the abolition of the EET, a successful project by the government of Andrej Babiš, where, as in other cases, I feel that the motivation of the government is not some rational consideration or perhaps a benefit for Czech citizens, but that the motivation is purely spiteful towards its political competitors. So let's talk and remind ourselves what the government should be dealing with here today. Let's remember what's bothering our citizens today. Because the government obviously doesn't care and doesn't want to deal with it. It's got an EET. The inflation rate is 16 percent and the outlooks are not optimistic. We are the third worst in the European Union. It can't even be blamed on war. Pre-war inflation was around 11 percent. People and companies face enormous increases in basically everything. Energy prices, food prices, fuel prices have been on record for several weeks now. The problem is that everything gets more expensive than anything else. And not by units of percent, but they're often tens of percent in a few months. Those problems are not just about low-income fellow citizens, but they are already affecting the middle class significantly. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The government doesn't help, it doesn't come up with any, in minimal cases, half-assed, but most of all marketing solutions, see Fiala's speech yesterday. It was one big PR event when we learned mostly that the previous government was responsible for everything. What's more, the government is going against its own programming statement. It's been five months since the government started, and they're already breaking the words of the preamble, but then the passage on the battle with the grey economy. The preamble of the government's programming statement, if one of the government officials hadn't already known it, sounds like it. "The unification and digitization of the state process is the way to a more acceptable, efficient and cheaper government. We will teach the state to function effectively, using all modern technologies."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u106	Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I want to ask my colleague and colleagues for some peace of mind. There's five and a half of us here, but we can make a big noise. So please keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u107	"Digitalization is not only a way to make citizens more comfortable contact with the state, but process automation will also lead to a more efficient functioning of the state as a whole. For seniors and people with special needs, the paper trail will remain." Okay, Prime Minister, you're a little conflicted with today's intention of shutting down the EET. What about the pirát? Are they even still in government? Somehow they're not heard from again. They've been cursing themselves with digitalization for a long time, but one of the most successful e-projects here wants to cancel. By the way, the extent of the grey economy in the Czech Republic expressed as a percentage of GDP in 2010, i.e. in the ODS government, was 16,7 percent. In 2019, the last year before the covid, it was only 13 percent. In 2021, i.e. after shutting down the EET, it jumped up to 13.9 percent. The ODS and with it all government parties so simply want the return and expansion of the grey economy. That's the only way I can explain it. The electronic record of sales was introduced on 1 December 2016 and its first wave covered the food and hospitality sector. The Constitutional Court itself then stated in its verdict that not only is the EET not unconstitutional, but vice versa, and this is important, it is a legitimate instrument for verifying tax obligations. And that's a fact that current government parties still don't understand or don't want to understand. EET operates in different forms in 17 countries of the European Union, such as Sweden, Belgium, Austria, Italy. Other states are considering it. Even countries such as Sweden, where the payment morale of tax entities is at a much higher level and the amount of the grey economy is lower than in the Czech Republic, after the introduction of sales records in the form of registration cash registers in 2010, the right-wing government increased its reported sales by an average of 5.2 %. Tax collection increased by CZK 8.1 billion. The introduction of EET in the Czech Republic was preceded by a thorough analysis and comparison of these systems. It turns out that countries that later introduce sales records can use the latest modern technologies better than traditional countries that built their systems many years ago. [[20.20 hours]] The electronic record-keeping of sales fully met the expectations that it had against it, whether it was the settlement of the business environment, the fair conditions for honest entrepreneurs, the smooth functioning without technical problems and difficulties and, last but not least, the reduction of the tax burden. First of all, it is important to mention the clear and verifiable contribution of the EET to the state budget of more than 60 selected billion in taxes since the introduction of the EET. Electronic sales log is one of the most important tax measures and at the same time the most important step in correcting the business environment in our modern history. A fair environment is one where everyone has the same conditions in which proper performance of duties does not constitute a competitive disadvantage. This is why the record of sales has been conceived from the outset as an area measure covering cash sales across the Czech economy. Experience from the years of operation in the first two waves shows that there is nothing to worry about. Electronic sales log is a modern and fully automated way of communicating between entrepreneurs and the Financial Administration, which brings a number of specific advantages to entrepreneurs and the introduction of which the Czech Republic has ranked among almost twenty European countries, in which some forms of cash sales records already work. One of the other important benefits of electronic sales records was and are more targeted controls of the Financial Administration, thanks to which honest entrepreneurs are not harassed by so-called blind checks. After three years, it is clear that the EET has made these checks significantly more effective and targeted. EET also enjoys support for the entrepreneurs themselves, i.e. those that are primarily concerned when, for example, the CEO of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic, Eva Svobodová said that they supported the electronic record of sales as an association from the outset as an instrument to reconcile the business environment with the fact that, if conditions are to be completely fair, it is right for EET to apply to all. EET significantly increases customer confidence in sellers who thus gain confidence that the VAT that is paid in the price of goods or services is actually paid to the State. The receipt itself is actually a transparent account that removes suspicion of fraud between the customer and the seller. On the other hand, the seller creates good relationships with the customer, has a better overview of his sales, stock management, and often eliminates the fraud of his staff. More than half of businessmen and representatives of small and medium-sized companies consider the grey economy to be a serious problem for the Czech Republic. In a survey by ČSOB for Law, 57 percent of respondents reported this. Half of the contacted representatives of smaller companies believe that the effective measure to reduce the grey economy and to make the Treasury more efficient is the gradual introduction of electronic sales records. Just a few more numbers and more facts. By the end of 2019, 140 000 entrepreneurs were involved in the EET, who sent at least one sales in a given quarter, before the pandemic hit the coronavirus. Subsequently, the interruption of the obligation to send sales electronically to the Financial Office and the number of registered entrepreneurs began to decline gradually. By the end of last year, more than 63 000 of them were voluntarily registered under the EET. Thus, although most of the previously involved entrepreneurs have stopped sending sales, there are still tens of thousands of companies and businessmen who continue to register sales data voluntarily. Thanks to EET, many vendors and traders have also started accepting credit cards. This was one of the most tangible benefits for customers, but a number of customers also enjoyed that the business they came to is acting according to the rules and like them paying taxes. It's normal to pay taxes. That's why it was a moral shift for some customers. That is why a number of business associations also say that they want to maintain the EET because they want to show that they are not tax-payers and that their sector is honest. It is also one of the arguments why they want to keep a voluntary record of sales. This could have benefits for the state as well as for entrepreneurs, such as by wearing a label on the door, registering sales and being fair entrepreneurs. They believe that this will give them a competitive advantage. Electronic sales log doesn't really matter to anyone involved. For some reason, it only bothers the current government coalition. Why? I think that's pretty clear. What doesn't seem to matter is the decline in the revenue of the state budget that would follow up on EET. Minister Stanjura and the entire government are repeating with him that we, as a government, have left public finances in turmoil. It's not true. This was confirmed by Eurostat, which confirmed the Czech Republic as the sixth least indebted country of the European Union. In addition, we can still hear what all the money is missing for. We're also voluntarily losing 13 billion to the state budget here. It's 13 billion a year. So every year, when the government is crying over high deficits, it can only blame itself if it voluntarily disposed of one of the tools for better tax collection. What did the government say? Minister Stanjura is supposed to cancel the party assignment EET. At the same time, however, it will cry over the state of the budget that government politicians portray as the worst in Europe, and it will ordain savings and belt tightening for citizens and entrepreneurs. At the same time, the government is thwarting a large-scale investment by both the state and private entities. The state has invested almost a billion into the EET, which is in order less than what the EET will bring to the budget each year. Private entities have invested even more in total. It's just an incredible waste of money that isn't based on facts, but just a political assignment. Unfortunately, it turns out again that the government is uneconomically accessing public money, while constantly telling people about its responsible budgetary policy. We are here today, and this is not the first time in this government, and we are experiencing an absolutely absurd situation. At this meeting, we have long been discussing the absurd idea when the government decided to take 14 billion from the health system to pay for state insured people. Yes, insurance companies have reserves. You could say lucky. But even those aren't endless. Last year alone, insurance companies were in the loss of CZK 21 billion. In addition, and I am also not saying anything new, we are in a situation where nearly 300,000 state insured people are added to this system, which we simply have to take care of. We will also actually collect 14 billion for this constellation, so we can potentially jeopardize the quality of care provided. [[If?]] [[20.30 hours]] So I have a suggestion: do not cancel the EET, on the contrary, let it run completely and leave the money to insurance companies. Your approach is, in other words, destructive for both Czech health care and at the same time damaging our economy. So the government actually wants to do damage in two areas at the same time. I have a humble recommendation for you, government. Do not cancel the EET and you do not have to take money from Czech hospitals, doctors, and patients as a result. And what's more, if you push the EET cancellation through force here in the House, we'll get a few more negative effects. The state will lose important information, in addition to exceptionally available practically online, which it can use to perform its functions effectively. As far as citizens are concerned, there will be a decline in sales points that accept cash-free payments, the number of which, by the way, increased significantly after the introduction of the EET, even outside large cities. At the same time, the introduction of electronic receipts will slow down and reduce the number of traders registering purchases electronically, which, among other things, makes it significantly easier for customers to make subsequent claims. And entrepreneurs, they lose an effective tool to support their business, which many have already built on the EET platform, will also lose their natural ability to define themselves against criticism, that they do not contribute a fair share to the implementation of public budgets and thus to the functioning of the state. Last but not least, the availability of the necessary data will lead to the return of more random tax controls and unnecessary burden on entrepreneurs who comply with the rules. The state is taking a huge step towards digitization. When you look at the sector not only of restaurants but also of craftsmen, many of them used the system from the 1990s before the operation of the EET, so-called paper - pencil. That's unimaginable these days. And this was for many of them the first cash register, which not only showed how much the state was robbing some of them, but also how many of them were robbing their staff and how many opportunities they were losing for their business. We can continue to develop the EET, there are many possibilities. First of all, in the tax area. For example, we can introduce digital tax returns, which already works in different countries. Entrepreneurs save money on accounting and administration. The coalition says how much we digitize the Czech Republic, on the other hand we de facto shut down the digitization of retail. What is the Minister of Regional Development, the Digitisation Commissioner, the Member and Chairman of the Pirate Party doing in one Mr Bartoš? Will digitalization in the business sector really go to waste, or will EET use it to develop other projects? Let's get this straight and honest. What's the reason to cancel the EET? Why is this government shutting down the tool to combat the grey economy and so going directly against its own programming statement? Does the coalition have another, better plan? Does he have any other solutions in his drawer? Is that what the union and association are asking for? The answer to all questions is simple - this coalition has a single agenda. It's not even helping people, it's not even the health care they take money from. But it's logical. A blind man of five completely disparate sides with one single link, and that makes him an anti-babish. Like the pirát, the construction law, which won the Law of the Year award, which would move the construction proceedings only because it was approved by the Babiš government, so for the very same reason we are discussing the abolition of the EET here today. It's that simple. EET is a successful project by Andrej Babiš, everyone has a connection with it, so even though it works, objectively levelled the market environment and brought money into the state register, it is necessary to cancel it. I understand you've been manipulating yourself over the past few years in a situation where you're probably wondering that there's nothing else left for you, even though you know you're not doing well. But there is a solution - a voluntary EET. Even now, the EET is voluntary because of the covid, and do you know how many subjects are still using it? Finally try less anti-babish politics and start working really for the benefit of citizens and companies. It's high time. In short, even if I wanted more, I can't think of any reasonable reason to cancel electronic sales records. I will therefore vote against this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members wish a nice evening. We will continue with the general debate and, next, the duly signed Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will speak and Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u109	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope to receive such a round of applause, too, it was surprising, so I will wait until the end if it is the same. [[Several Members applaud.]] Well, thank you. Let me get started. In March of this year, the Government submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a bill abolishing the Act on Recording of Sales and the related regulations. I like to remind myself of the government's programming statement when discussing the government's proposal, as you might have heard me in other prints. As part of the preparation for the discussion of this press, I was interested in several passages, or rather two points concerning this press. First point, we're going to prevent tax evasion. Second point - reduce the bureaucratic burden on tax and charge administration, abolish the EET obligation and parametrically adjust the control report. Why am I quoting this? My point is that the state will prevent tax evasion by abolishing the EET. Quite a surprise finding. Now to the press itself and its essence. We have before us - not entirely in front of us, but in the system - a material whose aim is to abolish the obligations contained in the Act on Recording of Sales as a whole, and thus to abolish the entire public regulation. I understand that this is one of the points of the current government's programming statement, and it is thus being implemented not only on a general level. But even here, of course, before we finally decide to cancel anything, we need to carefully consider the pros and cons. And it is precisely this consideration that led me to conclude, which I want to say at the very beginning. I'm fundamentally against it. I have several reasons. Let's go one step at a time. So first, the purpose of the EET, what EET was supposed to bring and what it brought. More efficient tax collection was expected in economic terms. In the area of social constraints on the grey economy, strengthening the sense that cheating is not paying off, and in the business environment of balancing conditions in the market environment. To make a responsible assessment, let us recall a few historical facts. Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on Recording of Sales, entered into force on 13 April 2016. According to the Decree, the start of the obligation to register sales was divided into four stages defined according to the activities from which the sales originate. The first phase, which began on 1 December 2016, concerned only sales from accommodation and catering services. The second phase began on 1 March 2017 and included wholesale and retail sales. The beginning of the third phase was planned for 1 March 2018 and the beginning of the fourth phase for 1 June 2018 according to the original version of the Sales Recording Act. However, these two phases were effectively abolished by the Constitutional Court's finding, which, with effect from 1 March 2018, carried out such an intervention in the Sales Recording Act, that the further amendment of the Act to which it responded actually abolished the provisions of the Sales Recording Act setting out the start of the obligation to record sales in four stages, and therefore there had to be a general obligation to register all sales that would meet the definition of registered sales. The amendment entered into force on 9 October 2019 and the obligation to register all registered sales should have taken effect on 1 May 2020. [[20.40 hours]] However, in response to the covid-19 pandemic caused by coronavirus, the obligation to register sales has been temporarily abolished with effect from 27 March 2020, by Law No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of an emergency state, regardless of what activity the sales result from. In fact, there was an interruption in the obligation for sales from the first and second phases and the withdrawal of the obligation to register sales originally in the third and fourth stages. The obligation to record sales was thus interrupted, gradually until 31 December 2022, and thus the whole system could not fully produce the expected results. Today, therefore, we are in a situation where, according to the planned legal situation, there will be an obligation from 1 January 2023 to record sales to all taxpayers regardless of their type of activity. Thus, part of the taxpayers will only resume the registration of sales that they have already practiced before the pandemic, or some of them have never stopped practicing. The second part will have to re-establish the record of sales, i.e. also bear the initiation costs associated with it. At this stage, the government decided to submit a motion to abolish the EET. According to the explanatory memorandum, this step explains the following reasons: By abolishing the obligation to register sales, entrepreneurs will be relieved of the administrative and financial burden that the record of sales means to them. A sharp increase in cash-free salaries for 2017 was expected with a 20% share of cash-free payments. For 2025, it is estimated to be up to 80 per cent. For 2021, this share is estimated at 60 per cent, which is at the expense of cash sales. The generally significant trend to the use of electronic payment methods and further concerns further changes in tax laws. It is therefore based on the view that the effect of the record of sales in current conditions compared to the period when the record of sales was introduced would be significantly lower in the future and would not be sufficient to re-establish the record of sales. At this point, I would like to mention the effects that EET has already brought. EET has confirmed that it is an effective tool against tax evasion. It contributed to a sense of environmental alignment. This leads me to think about how those who fell into the first and second waves, bought everything they had, rightly expected the expansion of the EET to other entrepreneurs, and thus real equality of access, and now they are to accept that it was unnecessary. I consider it a moral hazard. There is also little talk of the consequences of the grey economy in this context. I remind you of the custom of employing employees for minimum wage and paying them in cash, in other words from unregistered income, so typically for Czech pubs. The figures of the Czech Statistical Office on the rate of growth of sales are also pleasing, which have multiplied several times immediately after the introduction of the EET in the sectors concerned. The EET and the need to record sales have greatly benefited from employing it for a normal wage, i.e. the social and health system is not harmed, and above all, these people are insureing the basis for a future pension. Are we sure that there will be no return to these miserable practices? Of course, I realize that to some extent these practices will always be. The introduction of the EET in economic terms has brought the following things: an increase in budget revenue of 10 billion per year is expected. The clear and verifiable contribution to the state budget is a total of more than CZK 60 billion since the introduction of the EET. Canceling the system will also cost something. It is estimated that around 2 billion were issued by the State to operate the EET system from 2017 to 2020. The operating costs of the EET include the costs of the Ministry of Finance, Financial Administration, Customs Administration. Were these expenses unnecessary? Cancellation implies a reduction in costs. There will be a reduction in the number of civil servants and entrepreneurs and the state will bring relief in the administration, in operating expenses associated with the EET. To this end, savings are involved, but no one is talking about estimates of a fall in tax collection due to a return to the grey economy and a change in the mood of entrepreneurs. Yes, covid time has brought significant changes in income and it is hard to estimate how much it means to optimize taxes for the least earning ones and how many are those who really rely only on subsidy help because they have no other chance, and how many are those who simply don't pay taxes because they don't have income and leave business. It is worth mentioning that it currently uses the voluntary electronic record of sales of over 50,000 entrepreneurs. Yes, they are the ones who have accepted the idea that there is a need to do something for justice, and they do not want to feel that they have invested in something for nothing. Once the EET system has been shut down, entrepreneurs could not register their cash revenues on a voluntary basis. The reason for this is the cost of operating the EET by the State. We should think about it. I take the liberty of summing up. We can accept the relevance of some of the reasons that lead to the proposal to abolish the EET. In particular, covid contributed to a significantly higher rate of payment of cash-free, electronically, especially with cards. So it's a different time than when EET was preparing. However, it certainly contributed to the settlement of the business environment. To equalize the position of those who had not admitted their income until then, with the more honest ones who admitted their income. By then, income from the grey economy has increased into the budget, not only in tax but also in the field of social and health insurance. Furthermore, the EET significantly levelled the conditions in a difficult to control environment until then. Guesthouses, restaurants where, as we know, forces were accepted on basic salary and compared with wages from cash income, with all the consequences, especially for later pensions so employed. It shifted thought in the direction of transparency and fairness for everyone and feeling, humanly speaking, that concealing income is not worthwhile. There have been spent resources to build and operate a system that has not yet had a chance to fully show all the benefits, both on the part of the state and individuals - entrepreneurs. In the financial environment, the benefits of the EET, the estimated contribution of the increase in revenue to the budget, in the amount of billions, were estimated to be around 10 billion per year, against the declared savings from the eventual abolition of the system, in other words, what costs us 463 million. I believe that abolishing the EET would be a mistake for us to throw away and lose more than we can get. I cannot therefore agree with the proposal. Thank you for your attention to all who have listened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u110	And I thank you, too, Madame. And next, Mrs Berenika Peštová will appear and Mr Martin Kukla will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the summary of the RIA's final report, the impact on the state budget and other public budgets is stated - I quote: "A lower collection of taxes on the part of the public budget is assumed, lower expenditure on the part of public budgets is assumed. The reduction in collection after cancellation of the sales register can be estimated at CZK 4.2 billion, of which CZK 2.8 billion the state budget, CZK 1.3 billion the local budgets, CZK 0.1 billion the budgets of health insurance companies. In fact, this is not a reduction, but an estimate of the increase in collection, which could occur in 2023 if the obligation to re-record sales was renewed.' End of quote. In the impact on local authorities, municipalities and regions, it is stated - I quote: "Only indirect impacts on local authorities are assumed as a result of a lower collection of public budgets from shared taxes.' End of quote. [[20.50 hours]] The explanatory memorandum on this issue also states - I quote: 'Assumes, insignificantly' - meaninglessly - 'the lower tax collection on the part of public budgets'. So CZK 4.2 billion is not significant for this government. 4.2 billion crowns is a minor item. And I'm asking, how much could one-off child benefits be paid for this amount? Or from such a collection, it could be improved annually to old-age pensioners. Or cheaper fuel to end consumers at gas stations, which is a hit today, right? Big hit. Or buying electricity for low-income households, that's also a hit today. If you want, it could contribute to the defense. It is further argued in the explanatory memorandum that - I quote: "There have been significant social and economic changes since the Act on Records of Sales was adopted in 2016. In particular, there was a sharp increase in cash-free payments - for example, in 2017 Komerční banka estimated the share of cash payments of 80 per cent, i.e. the share of non-cash payments was thus in the amount of 20 per cent. According to the Mastercard survey, for 2021, the proportion of payments made by the credit card was estimated at 60 per cent, for 2025 PwC estimates a further increase in cash-free transactions by more than 80 per cent compared to today's situation. Although the covid-19 pandemic has contributed to speeding up this process, this is a long-term trend that will be maintained even after the effects of the pandemic have subsided. These changes were thus mainly reflected in a significant reduction in the share of payments without digital footprint, thereby significantly weakening the negative effects on which sales records primarily targeted - by increasing the volume of cash-free transactions, the volume of sales that could potentially be referred to as 'optimization', as well as sales of which the tax administrator does not have sufficient awareness, respectively. cannot identify them even if they are used by the competent tax authorities.' [[electronic]] Today, 60 percent of payments are made by card, telephone or watch. A few years ago, however, you could only pay cash in places where you pull a card without a blink of an eye today. That's right. In small towns in small shops, in village pubs, in self-service on the village square, at the fair stand, entrance fee to the castle, parking by the castle garden - and this way I could go on and on. There was a need to have cash and change in expected values everywhere. You can pay with a card anywhere in these places nowadays. Since when? Mostly since the EET was introduced. So if we look at the benefits of EET through the eyes of consumers, it is clearly more comfortable for me to pay. I remember how it was dealt with that their cell phone was enough for dealers to boot the EET, with some software and a small receipt printer. Today, such a solution in most places is and much better and more sophisticated. That's real digitization, not a claim on paper. By canceling the EET, we return to the pre-electronic period. This government calls for digitalisation, but practical steps are against it. And I see it every step of the way. The restaurant lost the threat of EET, often have payment terminals, but they are only connected there and lying in a drawer or - in quotation marks - have a malfunction. Would I be quite interested, colleagues and colleagues, in statistics, in how different the faultiness of payment terminals in restaurants and, perhaps, at those calling service stations? It seems to me lately that filling stations have been fitted with infinitely more reliable terminals than many restaurants. For example, I know a better restaurant that works without a failure of a payment terminal over a week, which issues lunch menus in tens. However, as soon as the weekend comes, people start having family lunches and long dinners, a day-long malfunction of a payment terminal comes. It even repeats itself regularly every weekend. Why? Well, since the gas company no longer has to record sales in the e-booking of sales and payment by credit card through the bank's payment terminal, it remains the only electronic trace of a closed business, proof of the company's sales. Is that why customers in restaurants keep asking us how we want to pay - cash or credit card? Even if we're waving our cards, they always ask. And he's cash in the first place. If you say you don't care, the word ping-pong starts, we don't care, some conspirators ask for cash. With the same blink of an eye, thought ironically, electronic records were closed at the beginning in smaller pubs so-called without Babiš, i.e. without a receipt. Customers thus found themselves in an imaginary underground with an innkeeper in the fight against a hated state. A brief sense of rebellion then replaced the second day of sobering in the form of the idea that he had given his well-earned and taxed money to someone who did not tax his earnings and did not conceal it. What ethical information does such a gastronomic company send to customers? I'm putting your taxed money in my pocket. No invoice, ma'am? They said craftsmen in the '90s when everything was possible and nothing was a problem. On the other hand, and I must say, there are a lot of decent businesses here, and there are a lot more of them. I believe there are many more. They behave properly, admit their sales and pay their taxes. They registered in EET mode or have a functional payment terminal and are not afraid to admit it. They don't even mind paying with a card anymore. Even a small amount, even coffee. I recently checked with the operator at an unnamed restaurant in Prague, how people pay most often. Says it's three-quarters of a card or a phone. The owner isn't stupid, and he knows very well that if he doesn't accept these cards, he's losing potential customers. And there are a number of entrepreneurs who even volunteer to keep using the EET, which is almost forbidden to talk about, and few will admit it publicly. On the contrary, what ethical information do these companies transmit to their customers? Think about it. They publicly report that they record all their income and don't put their customer's money in the straw. And in conclusion, let me think a little bit. The truth is not intoxicated, the truth is in clarity. And that clarity is supposed to prevent the drunkenness. Therefore, no one will blame you for your vision today, if you have come to it, for your drunkenness at the time when EET was received was evidently logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u112	Thank you, too, Madame. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies. Mr David Šimek apologizes from 22 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons and from 21 o'clock to the end of the day for family reasons Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes for family reasons. I will now ask Mr Martin Kukla to speak and Mrs Lenka Knechtová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u113	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sixth year we have implemented in the Czech Republic and in the life mentioned in Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, the start of which was divided into four separate phases. When we think about what electronic sales records have brought us, it has filled us with these expectations: the settlement of the business environment, the fair conditions for honest entrepreneurs. Oh, yeah. It was the honest businessmen who were happy to have fair terms, because remember, when we go somewhere to pay at this point, I get to see it quite often, so they ask you, "Do you want it on the invoice? Even these days. It was also at the time of the sales log. Even some of them won't issue you the invoice and ask for the money. I was in one of those tires for a change and they said 500. And then, how are the other garages supposed to look at it, they just issue an invoice and they get it for 800? This is the problem in the Czech Republic, and I think that the record of sales would eliminate all this in the future. The record of sales had a smooth operation without technical problems and difficulties. Yes, there were problems at the beginning, but most of the problems were with setting up the software on the user side, not on the Treasury side. There was enough time to prepare. The gradual onset was without complications. The choice of equipment was up to businessmen, they even had a choice, they got a tax discount, they could apply it to the costs. It also brought down the tax burden. If we look at the economic benefits, yes, it's 60 billion. The first and second waves brought about some 12.8 billion, and the third and fourth would produce 7.7 billion. Unfortunately, the third and fourth waves didn't happen precisely thanks to the fact that we had covid and it was interrupted. When we look a little bit into history, the beginning of the first phase occurred on 1. 12. 2016, which included only segments of sales from accommodation and catering services. On 1. In 2017, the second phase was launched, extending the mandatory area of cash sales from wholesale and retail. The planned start of the third and fourth phases did not eventually occur, or the Constitutional Court found that the third and fourth phases were de facto abolished. In response to the decision of the Constitutional Court, the legislature amended the Constitutional Act on the record of sales setting out the start of the obligation to record sales in four stages and there had to be a general obligation to record all sales complying with the legality of the records of sales which are subject to registration. The effectiveness of the amendment should have occurred on 1. 5. 2020. It was thanks to the covid that the sales log was discontinued by the end of 2022 and the third and fourth stages did not occur. So much for a brief look back on the history of the e-booking of sales in the Czech Republic. Putting electronic records of sales in life was a courageous project. I thank the petitioners very much for that. It was accompanied by a number of major challenges, but its implementation was very successful. Many experts and experts have worked on this. The implementation of the EET cost citizens of the Czech Republic considerable resources, but in all modesty it can be said that it fell on excellent. However, the most important aspect of each project is its purpose and meaningfulness. The government coalition is trying to give the impression that electronic sales records are useless, surviving, expensive and entrepreneurial. The government coalition thus ignores data obtained from several years of sharp operation and denies facts about selected segments of the business environment in which cash transactions play a key role. In the explanatory memorandum presented by the law, it raises mutually exclusive arguments against each other, which would be smiling in other circumstances, but this merely points to the incompetence and shortcutness of processors. But let's go back to the meaning and purpose of the e-booking sales project. In order for the state to function properly, it must be able to collect taxes. In order to be able to collect taxes properly, appropriate instruments must be set up for this. The cash transaction area was until the introduction of an electronic blackbox sales log that created an environment that allows dishonest entrepreneurs to do machinations to reduce sales. Of course, not all entrepreneurs can be considered dishonest, but it would be naive to think that there are no dishonest businessmen. Unfortunately, they are and the grey zone of the cash transaction economy recorded to them and these entrepreneurs did not really admit their revenues so that they would not have to tax them. The secondary effect was the so-called unfair competition of the spectrum of honest entrepreneurs, which reflected, for example, in the reduced prices of a dishonest entrepreneur, whom an honest, transparent businessman could not compete. The Tertiary Impact was characterised in particular by the hospitality segment in which employees were paid so-called on hand, which also had another negative impact in the calculation of social benefits on the calculation system for the determination of pensions. The nepoctivec then did not have to make any further contributions for these employees to the public budgets from the non-confessed revenues. In short, a business area characterised mainly by dominant cash transactions operated in a distorted and unfair environment. The Act on Electronic Recording of Sales has aligned this environment into a more readable and fairer form. In general, prevention is always a cheaper and more effective means than the subsequent solution and elimination of problems of different sizes in varying degrees of severity. Another synergy effect is not to burden transparent and honest entrepreneurs with random tax controls. Electronic sales log is precisely the preventive tool that helps to straighten out defects in the business environment in which cash payments prevail. From the beginning of the e-booking of sales in the real environment, from a technical point of view, the system has managed to detune quite quickly, so that it runs smoothly, without any problems, with a minimum response time. As we know, the response time is the response, and I think that the response was less than 0.1 seconds, so the average administrative burden on business entities is negligible from this point of view. Only in 2017, CZK 4.7 billion was collected from business entities by the State for VAT in connection with the introduction of EET. As I have already mentioned, the first and second waves would produce around CZK 12 billion and CZK 3 and 4. I don't think these are the small funds that are going to be missing in the state register right now. Thanks to the covid, phase three and stage four were interrupted and de facto phase three and phase four were never put into action. The Ministry of Finance, which can no longer be regarded as determining in the light of the above circumstances. In any case, for its short life, EET has demonstrated economic viability and a positive contribution to public finances. The introduction of electronic records of sales also had a positive impact for business operators in connection with checks carried out by the Financial Administration. Their number has fallen in several tens of percent and the effectiveness of the checks carried out has increased simultaneously, that is to say the number of authorised controls for entities with identified deficiencies. Regardless of the total number of controlled entities, higher efficiency increased by around 34 percent. A positive feedback will also be that thousands of business entities are still using electronic records of sales at the moment when a flat-rate obligation to keep electronic records of sales is waived. Last but not least, it is important to mention the importance of a positive trend in the development of rising average wages in the gastronomic sector, which can also be attributed to the electronic record of sales. The results of the settlement and improvement of the transparency of the environment of cash transactions, especially in the area of hospitality and gastronomy, can then be assessed by the above standards, thus again positive. An interesting side effect after the introduction of electronic sales log was the extension of the number of payment sites allowing cash-free forms, and this is precisely the acceptance of payment cards. When we look today, some entrepreneurs have written on the door: We don't accept cards. We can ask ourselves the question - why is that? [[21.10 hours]] The Act on Electronic Recording of Sales was initially probably perceived inconsistently and its adoption was, let's say, somewhat lukewarm, but the whole robust and costly project managed to bring without any major difficulties in life, and although after a short time, it showed in time that the expected benefits actually brought. So at the end of the day, you have to ask yourself the question of who and what the cancellation of the record has to do with electronic sales log. Petr Fiala's government's attempt to abolish electronic sales records completely lacks logical and justified and, at first and second glance, it appears that the cancellation is primarily intended for speculators and dishonests. I would therefore like to hear from the petitioners of this law who or what group is the intended target recipient. Interestingly, the government, which calls itself reasonable, is taking this populist measure. If Petr Fiala's government continues with this spirit, next year we could probably wait to draft a bill to abolish light traffic signals, because traffic lights are expensive, they consume a lot of energy and are very expensive for maintenance. They are also a very confusing and redundant element of road traffic for drivers, as the rule of the right hand is known to all drivers. I have already given a few examples here, a few examples of life, and I think that simply electronic sales records level up the market and only the dishonest ones want to cancel it because the honest pay the taxes and become uncompetitive to those who do not pay the taxes. Finally, I would like to appeal to all colleagues of the coalition government Members not to vote in favour of the abolition of electronic sales records. This bill is a populist waste, which you certainly do not need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u114	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And now I will ask Mrs Lenka Knechtová, who is duly registered, and Mr Ondřej Babka will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u115	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, at the outset, I must say that the standard of living of our citizens is falling, energy prices and prices are rising, and the government is supposed to bring measures to stabilise and set a thought-out mix of measures that will lead to economic stability. How does the cancellation of electronic sales record fit into this? Is it really meaningful for entrepreneurs to stop using modern cashier systems? Will we write off public expenditure for the innovation of an automated tax information system operated by the Financial Administration? Budgeting is clearly an irresponsible step. The cancellation of the EET puts everything back on track, thus distorting the market, and once again puts those honest entrepreneurs at a disadvantage, not to mention those who pay taxes properly. Electronic sales log is an electronic cash sales log system for sales of goods and services. EET is a modern system of rapid communication between entrepreneurs and the Financial Administration and is one of the most important tax measures in the Czech Republic. Since December 2016, the Ministry of Finance has introduced online cash registers that have enabled the Financial Administration to monitor payments in restaurants, hotels and shops. Electronic recording by means of continuous monitoring of sales virtually in real time is a useful analytical tool, both for Financial Administration, which so better reveals where tax evasion occurs, and for the operator himself, who sees his business in real time, including control. Former Finance Minister, Dr. Alena Schillerová, made clear the facts - and I quote: EET has already established a fair business environment by taking unfairly the opportunity to shoot down a price common on the market. Who would want to do business in such an environment? In hospitality, where there were the greatest concerns, we saw an increase in the number of registrations to GDP by almost 1,000 payers. [[correct: VAT]] In this sector, the Statistical Office reports a stronger growth rate of 20 per cent of allocated sales and more than 7 per cent faster wage dynamics than the rest of the Czech Republic between 2017 and 2019. It is the reduction of unconfessed sales that contributes to the gradual weakening of the phenomenon of black fines and hand payments, which, although at first sight, may appear to be very advantageous, but in the result the employees will cause zero employee protection, for example, is not entitled to severance payments or notice periods. Moreover, according to the Ministry of Industry and Trade numbers, the number of trades has increased by nearly 9 000 since December 2016. Let us not waste, colleagues and colleagues, what has already been done. Businesses dedicated to e-booking sales prepared easy, efficient, user-friendly solutions for entrepreneurs that did not burden business and were also economically advantageous. A printer, a computer, a laptop, a tablet or even a mobile phone connected to the Internet and a specific application tailored to a particular business will take care of everything. I would like my contribution to sum up the benefits of EET in digitization, the benefits in tax and budgetary policy, and to conclude, I would like to name the motivation and total illogicality of the current government. During its operation, EET secured almost CZK 60 billion of additional revenue for the state budget. Thanks to the EET, we have up to 13 billion more in the state budget each year, only from the first two waves. In the event of the introduction of the third and fourth EET wave, the Ministry of Finance estimates that an additional 7.7 billion would be recovered, i.e. a total of almost 21 billion each year. It is clear to all that the main objective of electronic sales record is to align the business environment. It is intended to ensure that those who do not pay taxes do not have an advantage over honest entrepreneurs. Logically, from the outset, the EET was intended as an area measure for cash sales across the economy. The clear and important effect of electronic sales records is more efficient tax collection. EET brought CZK 60 billion more to the state register for its operation. So, in my opinion, fair tax collection bets pay off. The benefits of the EET include a fair business environment and a functioning state, a lower tax burden, significantly fewer checks for honest entrepreneurs, fewer black payouts per hand, people are properly employed, thus taking pension money and drawing benefits from the state as regular employees, regardless of the fact that thanks to their income they can also draw a mortgage, a tax discount of up to CZK 5 000 for the smallest entrepreneurs. The side effect of EET is that payment by card is possible almost everywhere. If the EET is cancelled, people will return to the twentieth century. Thanks to EET, we cut taxes. We have reduced taxes by CZK 436 billion during the period of our government. We have reduced the income tax to 15 per cent for all employees, which means a higher wage of 7 per cent. We have maintained that the CFI should remain the income tax rate of 15 per cent. We have made the tradesmen's lives easier by introducing a monthly flat-rate tax. We have transferred a lot of items to a reduced GDP rate of 10 percent - drugs, child food, books, soft drinks, heat supplies, water and sewerage, mass transportation, catering services, hairdressers, repairers and home care. [[VAT]] The invention of the ODS, the tax on the acquisition of real estate, we canceled and instead of the promises we really reduced taxes and at the same time leveled the business environment, because paying taxes is normal. It is indisputable that Eurostat confirmed the Czech Republic as the sixth least-indebted country of the European Union. We're constantly hearing what's missing money for, but we're gonna voluntarily lose 13 billion in the state budget here. It's 13 billion a year, so every year when the government laments high deficits, it can only blame itself. She volunteered to get rid of one of the tools for better tax collection. And the main argument? It will be spared. Why does the EET want to shut down the government coalition? The reason is simple. It was the flagship of the previous government, and it is, with exaggeration said, necessary to sink. Regardless of the benefits, regardless of the illogicalness of such a step. [[21.20 hours]] The parties to the government coalition are shutting down the EET regardless of common sense. On the one hand, we are presented with the state of public finances that government politicians portray as the worst in Europe, and all citizens and entrepreneurs have savings. On the other hand, the government is thwarting a large-scale investment by both the state and private entities. The state has invested almost a billion into the EET, which is in order less than what the EET will bring to the budget each year. Private entities have invested even more in total. A waste, which is not based on facts, but merely on a political assignment. It shows how uneconomically the government approaches public money while constantly telling people about responsible budgetary policy. We all know what cuts in the state budget have been made by the Minister of Finance, stating that he has no funds. I will give an overview of the selected changes in the expenditure of individual chapters in the now completely non-current Fialův Government budget for 2022. Ministry of Finance - decrease in expenditure by 1.87 billion crowns. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings Financial administration is reduced by 765 million. Expenditure to ensure the fulfilment of the tasks of the central authority has decreased by CZK 373 million. Expenditure on Customs administration activities was reduced by CZK 391 million. Ministry of the Interior - decrease in the expenditure of the chapter by CZK 3.2 billion. Reduction of expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic by CZK 1.7 billion and the current reduction of expenditure of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic by CZK 1 billion. Ministry of Industry and Trade - decrease in the expenditure of the chapter by CZK 6.5 billion. Reduction of expenditure to eliminate the consequences of mining activity, mandatorial expenses and additional needs of the state by CZK 1.4 billion. At the same time, subsidies were also reduced to renewable energy sources from CZK 27 billion to CZK 19 billion. Ministry of Transport - decrease in expenditure of the chapter by CZK 9 billion. Reduction of the subsidy to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure by CZK 7.5 billion and the current reduction of other expenditure associated with the State's transport policy by CZK 1.6 billion. Ministry of Agriculture - decrease in the expenditure of the chapter by CZK 3.5 billion. Reduction of the subsidy to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund by CZK 1.6 billion. Reduction of forestry support by CZK 330 million and reduction of water support by CZK 200 million. Reduction of expenditure on the Ministry's state policy, inspection, control and research activities by CZK 1.3 billion. Ministry of Youth and Sports Education - decrease in the expenditure of the chapter by CZK 5.2 billion. Reduction of expenditure by 1 billion for universities with the current increase in expenditure for research, experimental development and innovation by CZK 350 million and the reduction of expenditure by regional education and directly managed organisations by CZK 4.4 billion. Ministry of Culture - decrease in the expenditure of the chapter by CZK 921 million. Reduction of expenses for the National Treasure of Culture and Heritage Programme by CZK 400 million. Reduction of expenses for the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments by CZK 169 million and reduction of support for professional theatres and permanent professional symphony and singing choirs by CZK 100 million. We discussed the Ministry of Health today. There was a decrease in the expenditure of the chapter by CZK 5,8 billion, namely a reduction in the cost of bed care by CZK 772 million and at the same time a reduction of CZK 4.5 billion in the expenditure of vaccines for regular, special and extraordinary vaccinations under Section 49 of Act No. 158/2000 Coll., on Public Health Protection, and Expenditure on Security of the Pandemic Plan. Ministry of Justice - decrease in expenditure of CZK 1.8 billion. Reduction of expenditure on the judicial part by CZK 1.2 billion and reduction of expenditure on the prison part by CZK 551 million. National Sports Agency - decrease in the expenditure of the chapter by CZK 1.3 billion. Reduction of subsidies in the area of development and promotion of sport by CZK 1.1 billion. Reduction of funding for sports representation by CZK 76 million. Reduction of support for major sports events by CZK 101 million. Now the 13 billion that EET brings, they would actually be quite useful. Where do you get the 13 billion? You're gonna raise taxes? Will you privatize? It's the only thing you seem to know. You're simply interrupting an effective tool against the gray economy, but, as they say, the party order sounded clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u116	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Ondřej Babka will now appear and prepare Mrs Eva Fialová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have now wanted to persuade my speech by the Minister of Finance or at least some member of the government, whom unfortunately I do not see here. However, I am satisfied that at least the rapporteur will listen to me, since we have already met here today on an extraordinary basis because of the five-wheeler's plan to cancel the electronic record of sales. I don't suppose I'd be surprised to start by saying that I consider this to be a fundamental mistake. Start with what? In my opinion, Czech entrepreneurs clearly appreciate the settlement of the business environment that followed the introduction of the EET and their ability to define themselves against the criticism that they do not contribute to the fulfilment of public budgets in a fair way. In addition to the initial investment made at the beginning of the sales log operation, the EET system does not burden them financially, both financially and administratively. The system is functional and the suppliers of the cashier systems have automated it to the maximum extent. The same applies to Internet connection. This is now a necessity and a matter of course for every entrepreneur, regardless of his business, and whether or not he keeps a record of sales. The single advantage of electronic sales records for the public system is not only a higher tax collection, but also a quality source of information that is exceptionally available practically online, thus enabling to monitor trends in economic development and an effective focus of tax control, so let us understand some not burdening a more honest part of entrepreneurs. After three years of electronic sales log operation, it is clear that the EET has made these checks more effective and targeted. Statistics show us that they have decreased and show us a decrease in these controls by more than 20,000 between 2017 and 2019. At the same time, thanks to electronic sales records, the controls, as I said before, are more targeted. While in previous years the targetedness, i.e. finding rate, sorry, the finding rate of the control was 22 per cent and the error was therefore identified in one of the five checks, for each of the five checks, in 2019 the finding rate of the control was 44 per cent, i.e. almost every second check, which was therefore targeted correctly. Thus, the risk of control in an honest businessman has decreased dramatically. As a result, entrepreneurs were able to focus on what they really do and what they need to focus on, that is, their business, and they did not have to spend their precious time on some kind of administration during possible checks. This is a benefit which, of course, is hard to calculate, but has huge implications for the whole business environment. Also, the financial contribution to public finances is certainly not negligible. A clear and verifiable contribution to the state budget, more than CZK 60 billion, since the introduction of EET 12.8 billion per year for the first and second waves, the possible introduction of the third and fourth waves additional 7.7 billion per year, all with planned deficits for the following years reaching nearly 300 billion crowns. [[21.30 hours]] I have outlined the benefits for the state and entrepreneurs in part, and I will now try to explain the benefits of electronic sales records for citizens. And these are also clear: Better tax collection, which will not be lost on cheaters, as well as on health and social insurance. When a customer pays a trader a price including VAT and doesn't pay the value added tax, he just robs the customer of that amount. And once again, I will repeat the amount: the state has chosen up to CZK 60 billion per EET according to estimates, i.e. a circus of CZK 12 billion per year. EET also means more space for investment in education, health care, social and transport infrastructure, and so I could name it here further and further. Electronic sales record means hundreds of crowns adding to pensions, thousands of crowns adding to teachers, hundreds of kilometers of highways. EET is also a weapon against very widespread black payouts for employees. We all know that this problem is mainly in gastronomy, and of course, the people who do in the gastronomy struggle with this problem. The EET thus helps the state to have sufficient pension funds for these employees in the future. It will not be necessary to increase taxes, on the contrary, there may be a reduction in the tax burden if we maintain the EET in the future. Compared to the expected benefits, the cost of the system can be considered marginal. I repeat, the record of sales has been conceived from the outset as an area measure with a gradual start in time, whose main aim was to settle the business environment and increase tax collection. This was ultimately reflected in the reduction of the tax burden in the Czech Republic. So, what I don't understand is why the government wants to shut down the most successful digitization project in recent years. Digitalization is even one of the main priorities of this government. In her programming statement, and I still have it hidden in my drawer in my place so that I can browse it and possibly refer you to it, as I will do in this case, you write: Unification and digitization of state processes are the way to a more friendly, efficient and cheaper state administration. We will teach the state to function effectively using all modern technologies. Digitization is not only a way to make citizens more comfortable with the state, but process automation will also lead to a more efficient functioning of the state as a whole. - I quoted from the government's programming statement. I don't understand, I really don't understand why, or how, the cancellation of the electronic record of sales, i.e. the most successful digitization project in recent times, goes hand in hand with this government statement. I don't understand. I cannot shake the impression that the only motivation to abolish and destroy this successful project is that it was invented by the government of the YES movement. Speaking of digitalization, I wanted to talk to Minister Bartoš here, who I don't see here, but I might still allow myself to react briefly because many young people voted for the pirát, and maybe some of my friends, and you promised digitalization. And it was one of the biggest topics during your election campaign, not just Pirstan. And there are a large number of areas where I think with you, and I think with pirate ideas, I will not meet and identify with them, that is obvious, but I must confess that - and now I am speaking as the youngest Member of this Chamber of Deputies - so, of course, the idea of digitalisation is close to me. And I figured that some sensible digitization that would respect the fact that we have an older part of the population, which, in some way, might not be able to register, so that we need it. And that was a positive point for me in the pirate program. I think some young voters voted for you just because you were promoting significant digitalization and thought, well, maybe the pirát are more left-wing than I like, but the digitalization, they can push it. And now we are sitting here today in an emergency meeting and listening, but from the young progressive party, from young Members, whether from pirate, from a party full of IT specialists, I hear no defense of this basic digitalisation tool in the Czech Republic. I'm not able to understand this government's motivation to shut down the EET. Let's just try to figure this out so that we don't disturb what works and hurt anyone. I would understand if the government didn't want to expand it if it didn't want to expand electronic sales records for other business sectors. I think that entrepreneurs just deserve some stability, and not that a new government comes in and cancels all the good that the government has put in place last time. That's not how I think politics should work in a modern state. And what about me to cancel the EET, and I come to the conclusion of my speech, maybe it will be the most regrettable, I suppose, and again I'm with those young people, and I think it's justified concern that by canceling electronic records, just part of the traders, and already here it has been said, will just stop accepting credit cards. Payment cards, which are now the complete basis and full normality of payment transactions everywhere. For example, Miroslav Lukeš from the Czech Fintech Association points out that some entrepreneurs stop taking credit cards and return only to cash. And now again, I quote, "Many terminals are in the plug, but they're not used. A whole range of entrepreneurs are waiting to shut down the EET. That's crazy and sad." He further notes: "With the suspension of the EET, i.e. at a time when the obligation for covid was stopped for two years, a number of specific restaurants stopped taking credit cards. I would like to see only 20 to 25 percent in the cash transaction retail in 2025. The state, unfortunately, is now doing the opposite and is acting against this trend." This is probably the saddest part of me, and I hope, or I believe that if you manage to cancel the electronic sales log, it really won't lead to a reduction in payment transactions using a credit card. I'm worried about it, but I'm afraid that's what you've decided, and I'm afraid I can't convince you with my speech today. However, allow me to conclude by summing up what the electronic record of sales has accomplished for expectations. In my opinion, these are the settlement of the business environment, the fair conditions for honest entrepreneurs, the smooth operation without technical problems and difficulties, the gradual start-up without complications, sufficient time to prepare, the free choice of equipment according to the choice of entrepreneur, the reduction of tax burden, the tax deduction and the clear and verifiable contribution to the state budget, and, as has already been said several times, more than CZK 60 billion since the introduction of electronic sales records. The cancellation of the EET is a fundamental mistake. The record of sales opens up a huge range of other digitalisation opportunities. At the end of my speech, I call on this Chamber of Deputies, i.e. you, colleagues, to avoid this error, i.e. the cancellation of electronic sales records. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I also greet you warmly and have a good evening. In the meantime, I will read the apology received and Mr Radek Koten is reporting with a factual comment. But first, the apologies. For personal reasons, Mrs Lucie Šafránková apologises from 21.30 pm to the end of the day. From 21.30 pm to the end of the day, Mrs Iveta Štefanová apologizes for health reasons. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský from 21.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Hubert Lang again from 21.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. I'll just point out to the foreman that Minister Bartoš is also duly excused. Now please, your two minutes in a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u119	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to wish you a good late evening. I think that electronic sales records - I respond to my previous speakers here - have unfortunately caused a lot of things that have helped basically ruin small restaurants, where the owners did it more as an interest service. The introduction to the barbershop, the hairdresser, for example, didn't do much good there, because all this activity moved into a grey economy, where the barbers and girls cut at home and so on. But what did it do? Well, it brought 7,000 new jobs for officials who cost 7 billion a year. The benefits are therefore clear because we have increased employment in this sector and, of course, the extra money that will be collected is going to operate the EET. I think it is necessary to collect taxes and taxes should be paid, yes. That's why we proposed a flat-rate tax, and I think that the flat-rate tax would be solved, solved to the full satisfaction, and they would, of course, be able to work at no extra cost, absolutely perfectly, they wouldn't have to invent things to go around the sales log. I got a text today from my hairdresser, who is cutting officially, and it would be a huge burden for him. Because he's got spaces where there's no cell phone signal, because that's a room where there's no signal through those strong walls, and it would be a huge complication for him. Plus more costs. So I welcome the fact that the electronic sales log would be canceled, and if anyone's comfortable with it, let them keep the system. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It doesn't matter, does it? Well, that would be all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u120	Thank you. Mrs Eva Fialová is now in the general debate. Mr Karel Rais can prepare himself. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u121	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Ministers, fellow Members, I would normally not be able to speak on this subject, but also the proposal in the context of the previous point seems to me that someone has stopped thinking logically. Dear government, are you not aware of the paradox that you will take 14 billion from health insurance companies and involve them in the state budget and, on the other hand, cancel the instrument that will bring about 14 billion to the Treasury? Much has been said here, and repetition is the mother of wisdom, so here we go. I wonder what the real reason is. For me, it's just an election vow and an antipathy that connects the five-calice, and that's Andrej Babiš. I find shutting down the EET illogical even in context with your government's programming statement. "We will fight against the grey economy and introduce digitalisation." How are you going to do that? Do you have any specific ideas, Minister? Instead of trying to improve the conditions and make the EET user friendly and looking for ways to motivate traders to use it, you will cancel it without compensation. What else is paradoxical? You will also cancel it for those who would like to use this system voluntarily and use the data effectively. What's really gonna happen, or is it already happening? It cancels places where you could pay with a credit card. EET and covid wave resulted in an increase in cash-free payment rates. One example for all. Recently, a friend of mine complained to me that they were coming down the river on an extended weekend. Based on their previous years' experience, they did not come up with a large amount of money and counted that in all the camps it would be possible to pay by card as the previous years. And look how appalled! Almost all refreshments along the river are suddenly not paid with a card and want everything in cash and preferably without a receipt. Great, they said. Where are we supposed to look for an ATM now? Well, all they had left was to dine a piece of dry bread that they took with them to feed the duck. That's the reality we're dealing with. EET proposed a fair market. Another example may be accommodation, where a lot of companies send their employees on business trips and training where they pay for their accommodation. Their personal consumption in the form of refreshments went as employees at EET time. And what is possible again today? Rewrite refreshments to the price of accommodation if he is willing to pay cash. Everything goes back and the practices that we all wanted to get rid of become common practice. In the last week, we have seen this not only in the area of the abolition of the EET. If the reason to cancel the EET is to fulfill your pre-election promise, that would be understandable from the beginning of the year when we were not facing such an economic crisis. After all, the situation is completely different. I'm sure you could explain that to your constituents. You're constantly overly indebted - which isn't true - and by investigation, and you're voluntarily getting rid of the income of less than 14 billion and putting in the third and fourth waves by another seven? Not even a little kid who can count can understand that. And that's your populism. When the first wave was introduced, I asked the restaurant owners themselves how much it hurt them. Of course, the small ones, where the family business is concerned, are not satisfied. But larger employees suddenly estimated the long-term unexplained small scams of their staff, for example in the form of issued coffees, when one of them discovered that the employees brought their own coffee to the restaurant and the profit from the sold goes into their pockets. He was very angry - and that's a very weak word. He spoke to the staff, and he found that the salary that he gave them because of their fears and suspicions of fraud was so small that he had to take his own chances. After the introduction of the EET he could afford to increase the salary of his employees and set rules that work, and overall the restaurant started to flourish suddenly. The statistical office shows that basic salaries have increased in hospitality. I think we could find more cases like this. I will admit that we will also find those who are not satisfied with the introduction of the EET, either for ideal reasons or others. So why are you destroying a successful and implemented system? You, who are calling for an investigation, are wasting not only the resources of the state for its introduction, but you are thwarting the investments that the traders themselves have brought in, even though they could deduct it from their taxes, and you are destroying the digitalisation of retail. I would still understand this step at a time when your EET booths would be confirmed that individual traders would be bankrupt if it turned out that the introduction of the EET would somehow become expensive to traders. That wasn't confirmed either. Most have already used a cashier system. It was therefore a service that was often provided by the system operator for free. If someone was buying a cashier's solution, they could deduct a cheaper and more expensive option from taxes. If the customer requests to issue a receipt, the trader is obliged to do so. So he must have had some chance to do it anyway. And not to mention that controls have become more effective. Honest entrepreneurs are not burdened with unnecessary checks. The haunting of the unsent receipt and the draconian fines were not confirmed. [[21.50 hours]] I would still understand this step when all operators would be calling for it. But over 60 percent of the obligation in the first and second waves continued to voluntarily send reports. So why don't you at least consider a voluntary system and give these operators a competitive advantage and confidence between the operator and the customer? Do you really want to voluntarily throw your income into the Treasury worth 14 billion? You could use that, as you've already heard, to raise your pensions, and at least sometimes you could brag about some addition that would actually be from your workshop. Or you could support an increase in the parental allowance from 300 to 400 thousand and you might not have to stitch up by liking the proposal, but there's no room in the state budget for it this year. Or move them to the construction of apartments for self-government or to the construction of motorways. Just about anything that would make their lives easier for people. But you obviously don't care. You don't care about the Czech citizen and you prefer to brag about how you increased the number of people who can apply for social benefits. It's a mockery to every person who's tried to work honestly so far and hasn't asked for help from the state. And yesterday, the Prime Minister gave the nation a crown in his speech and told them not to be ashamed of it. So for me, this step is completely illogical. I would like to know what proposals you have for combating the grey economy and digitising the state's processes in this area, as stated in your government statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u122	Thank you, Madame. Another enrollment is Mr Karel Rais, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u123	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I will approach this issue a little untraditionally and allow myself to present some positive experiences from the introduction and use of the EET in such an unconventional business environment from universities. The previous speakers, such as Minister Stanjura, have argued here about how much EET has brought higher costs to entrepreneurs and how unclear the increase in income is, and that is why they are also rejecting the whole EET. But I think it's also necessary to look at the course of your entire financial flow, cash flow at the firm. Experience from practice shows that the introduction of the EET will significantly reduce the error rate in its own financial flow, reduce the administration of cash amounts, reduce the risk of their misuse, as has been said here a few times, perhaps by waiters and so on. I can demonstrate this claim to simplify financial flows or courses at a university. For example, at the so-called University of the Third Age, where the circus of one to two thousand seniors is registered here at this university, it pays an administrative fee of various amounts, mostly from CZK 500 to CZK 1,500, and it pays cash for one or several study modules, which are about 80 to 100 per semester in total. So here I see the introduction of this EET as a great advantage because the error rate in processing income documents within the institution is being removed. The classic way is that each of these seniors is filled out of course, filled out the command, and basically the human work of those referees, which is replaced by computer processing, is also reduced by the risk of deliberate or unintentional error. Similarly, for longer courses where there are tens or hundreds of applicants and where the collection of cash charges is normal, the introduction of an EET is a factor of action. In view of the university budget, it is quite common that part of the faculties will also have to earn money in the form of teaching, and not for each course it is appropriate to issue invoices due to the hundred crown amounts. I believe that even if EET is only voluntary in quotation marks, in this particular case EET will remain at university, or whatever we call it, this digital method, the electronic way of revenue sales, will be preserved. The process of automating the collection of small sums at the university will continue whether or not the amendment to the law will be adopted. There are certainly other specific areas in normal business life where the abolition of EET would be a minus factor. [[unintelligible]] And since I'm from a high school environment, I've dealt with this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And it raised a point of fact, that is, the Minister. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u125	I assume Mr. Rais was talking about the BUT? I'm a graduate. A little sad that the Technical University needs a law to digitally accept cash payments. That's how I understood that thanks to the EET, you introduced this system. I can only appreciate, you have the system, and I have a rhetorical question: Who or what will prevent the system from continuing to operate from January 1st next year? The very correct answer is nobody and nothing. So I'm not criticizing it. No one's gonna stop you from using the system. It has no relation to the bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u126	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher is also duly registered. Mrs Romana Fischerová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u127	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you have noticed, I am aware of feedback, so I have changed my strategy that I have always applied first. As a result, I became a rapporteur. That was under the pandemic law. So now I've turned myself in, and at the same time, no one here has listened to me much, because when the topics lasted for ten hours, everyone went away. So I changed my strategy, I signed up at the end. I am not the rapporteur, it is as an advantage, but there is still half of the hall, because the MPs are still not here, and it is still far from the end, so I should probably sign up at the very end when you all come back here for the vote. But the important thing is that the Minister and the rapporteur are here. I'll look at it again, as you're used to me, from a slightly different point of view. I'm going to ask some questions, some perhaps rhetorical questions, to which I will answer myself. And I'll disprove some myths and so on. When this government came up with the cancellation of the EET, I asked myself, and now I'm asking myself twice the basic question: why are we here approving the laws? What is this for? That's the most basic question. Among other criteria, I have thought of three: political priority, budgetary or financial priority and support for a target group. These three. When I look at it, all of these three, all of these three criteria, in my opinion, and I say from my point of view, are not met on this proposal. Because it's not a political priority for me right now. Maybe she was in the election campaign at the end of last year. But now it's priorities, and I hope we agree, somewhere else, even this government says that the war in Ukraine is changing those priorities. And we should be dealing with something else. We should be dealing with a package that you are or that was proposed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade yesterday. Food prices, energy prices development, medium-term plan, how to deal with this and so on. That means this is not a political priority for me. Maybe ideological. It's like campaigning. But not political. [[2.00 hours]] Notabene thinks that political priority should also address voters and show them the predictability of law and the situation where one government does not implement something (?) and the other one cancels it completely, and the third one takes it back. So I could imagine some combination of maybe canceling the EET for the third, fourth wave definitely and maybe doing it on a voluntary basis. But the fact that this is going to go completely out of order, it just seems to me that it doesn't meet either of those criteria or one of those priorities, and it's not even the political priority. When I look at financial or budgetary priorities, we're always talking about how to fill the budget. And here are always the two scenarios - either raising revenue, that means raising taxes, or cutting expenses somewhere. Nobody really wants to do it, anyway, whoever's in the government, do both. I say there's a third way, and that's more efficient tax collection. This means, at current rates, to collect more effectively from those who should pay taxes but do not pay. And, among other things, in my opinion, and I'm talking about the first and second waves, because in the third and fourth, I was skeptical, too, and I'll admit that -- so in the first and second waves, that means hospitality and company, that's going to meet the criterion. That means, in keeping with that rate, more taxes will be collected. It doesn't have to increase taxes and it doesn't have to be cut anywhere. Václav Klaus would say the third way he didn't like, but in this case, it will meet the criterion. So here, I think this proposal is totally against it. And basically politically, as opposed to this, it could be one thing for us because you guys are coming -- I made a comment from the seminar I held -- 4.2 billion, which was chosen in the last year when the EET worked, plus. That was the Treasury statement. That means we couldn't care less theoretically, but you, too, are saying that we're all in the same boat. We wouldn't care if you lost the revenue, but we're actually losing the income, so it doesn't even meet the other criterion for me. Third I said, support the target group, in this case probably businessmen. Well, here I was hosting a voluntary EET seminar, I was showing the minister here, the invitation. They were invited there - so were you, I was talking about it here, I guess in the negotiations, now I don't know about the budget or what, now don't take my word for it. And there were representatives of the Association of Hotels, Restaurants, Gastronomy, Association of Czech Traditional Trade and so on, meaning representatives of those entrepreneurs who use it EET. We're talking now, I say, about the first and second waves. And there they clearly said that EET didn't make life any more difficult for them and that they wanted to at least maintain a voluntary EET. And that's the opinion of the target group we're supposed to help. That means, for me, when I sum up this first part of myself, this proposal doesn't have a political priority in it that has changed, or financial, goes even against it, or the support of the target group, because that target group, I'm not saying that everyone, but a big part doesn't want it. What are minuses and pluses? And this is where I come from the seminar. I've been taking honest notes. That's the stuff from practice, that's not what we're gonna say here, we're gonna make up in the hallway to make it sound good on the microphone. If I say negatives, what did it say? Circulation of unofficial payments, absence of fair competition. I'll talk about it later. Now the distribution to honest, dishonest restaurants. The moment it's EET, this - I'm not saying it's completely nullifying, but the odds are increasing, the odds are that it's going to go with the dishonest ones, and actually it's going to be equal to the competitive disadvantage, because they're the restaurant guys who just do everything official, and then they're the ones who don't officially do it. And then there are those who do it completely -- payouts black -- and they have the stomach for it, and they obviously have a competitive advantage. It sounded cash only. We'll actually go back a step. And I'm saying that here as a person who otherwise prevents payment in cash in general. In general, it prevents payment in cash from being required to make a cash-free payment. I'd even like to imagine a change in the constitution for myself. Lowering the comfort for the guest in terms of his complaint, sounded from practice, I didn't make that up. More tax collection, that's what I've been talking about, and slowing down digitalization. That's what the IT representatives who took as a benefit of the, perhaps by-product of the EET, ICT business support in the Czech Republic said. What was the plus on the other hand? Fighting the gray economy - that's what we talked about without moving, so you're going to pick more with that rate. Tax reductions - and here I'll remind you that part of it, and that's forgotten, has fallen taxes. I will remind you that VAT has expanded the range of goods that fell below 15 percent and 10 percent, with catering services, draft beer, newspapers, magazines. At that time, among other things, I'm not going to read the whole table that's all down or where the deductible items have gone up, but maybe the discount on the baby has gone up. By the way, when you look, sales increased by 13 and 20 percent year on year in hospitality and hotelry. Accommodation services, sorry. So what's interesting, and in that context, of course, it brings logic and some secondary additional revenue to the state budget, that while between 2016 and 2019 wages increased by 28 percent on average, it was 34,5 in hospitality. That means six percentage points more. It means that there's some effect on the income return, while until then those people were paid minimum wage and the rest got unofficially, there's obvious. Among other things, it has also occurred when you look at the fact that there is no question that restaurants would close down and this business would be cancelled and that between 2016, 2019 the number of catering businesses increased by 9 000 - by 9 000, Minister - by 9 000. That's right, those are numbers. It's also not true, I asked that very special question, that hotels would have a problem with the transition to EET, as they were said. That was absolutely clear from the President of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants. There was no problem with the transition to EET. I'm always here to answer each other, to understand, to talk about the first and second waves. Nor is it true that they would go bankrupt because of EET companies, or that restaurants would close. The feedback I collected in that time was that more restaurants in those small villages closed because there was no smoking. That was more reason than the introduction of the EET, which means the severity of the anti-smoking law. And by the way, the motivation for maintaining a voluntary EET is less... are less responsibilities to the financial authorities, reduction of tax controls. So I looked again, between 2017 and 2019 the number of checks fell by 20,000 and the number of checks - there is said, I found, findership, I don't use the word very much - on the contrary, the finding rate has increased twice. This means that even for those entrepreneurs it is better, or for those who have been honest, nothing changes for them. Those who didn't admit it are changing for them, but it offsets their competitive advantage until then, until then, and at the same time, it actually reduces the administrative costs and the checks that are directed at them. [[22.10 hours]] When I asked for revenues and costs to know the conditions, the Treasury representative told me that at the beginning the annual costs were 450 million one-time and 200 million the following year, with the fact that at this time the costs are 80 to 100 million - 80 to 100 million, I have written it down, I can show it to the Minister, I did not invent the figures - while the revenues are 4.2 billion. So, in summary, I understand that the cancellation of the EET was some kind of - how do I put it? - the political brand for the election campaign. The question is whether the complete abolition of everything at a time when the EET is voluntary at this point in time, and perhaps the hospitality in it is 60 percent of the restaurants anyway, if that makes sense. And I think that both in terms of politics and economics, and in terms of logic, it doesn't make sense for me. And I'm really only talking about the first and second waves. Well, when we were talking about the effect of a voluntary EET, I was talking about this, say, moral aspect and choice for consumers at the conference, just like we did at the time of the covid, when there were restaurants that controlled, even though they didn't like it - and you know that I didn't agree with all those measures - and some of them didn't check. And there have been some initiatives to make people visit those restaurants that they keep, even strict, sometimes beyond healthy common sense, but they follow the strict rules, and they don't go where they don't follow them. And here it could be offered and offered such parallels of this voluntary EET that I'm going to visit that restaurant, which will voluntarily continue to do so, unlike the one that doesn't. It is, of course, the customer, but the view is similar to what we experienced at the time of the covid, and it was very unpleasant for those people, but there were such activities, initiatives. And for that consumer besides the price - although, of course, the time is changing now, even the point of view, as I say, mine is changing, because what maybe didn't apply a year ago, now the price is going to be decided, because of course, these people have a completely different point of view today than they had a year ago, and I dare say, of course, the first thing they're going to cut is culture, sports hobbies of their children and visiting restaurants. So, of course, the priorities are changing because of the costs that are dictatorial to those families. But there may be a group of people who want to visit a restaurant, and there's a symbol that they want to give it to a fair restaurant that admits its income and pays its employees, who then sub-consciously take social, health insurance out of it, so the money goes back into the system. So for me, I've tried to take it in some way, and as I say, at this point, Minister, I don't see it - and I want to make it quite clear, the political priority - I don't see the financial effect there, and I don't even see the opposition to the target group, from which, as I understood at the seminar, the target group doesn't even basically call after that. So you could call it doing good. So much for me to contribute to this in the first reading, and I would be happy to have the Minister to do some of those things, even if they were rhetorical questions, or perhaps the rapporteur, who trembles at it when they respond. Thank you for your attention at this hour of the night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with a factual remark, the rapporteur, and then the Minister is signed up. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u129	Thank you for the floor. By your help to my colleague Nacher, I will grant him that wish and I will respond to something. One thing. He said it wasn't a political priority today. Well, it's just that what the eyes don't see doesn't hurt the heart. That means the EET is off today, people don't meet him. And in particular, they don't meet him, and many don't even know it, from the third and fourth wave of those 300,000 traders, that they can fall on them from January 1st to the renewal of the EET and for them a new obligation to set up an EET. Well, that's the political priority. Second thing, second point. This is often argued by the Association of Hotels and Restaurants. You weren't the first to mention the association here. I would just like to point out that exactly the same association at the time when the third and fourth wave was approved in the last parliamentary term, so exactly they convinced us about it here, the Chamber of Deputies, how much disadvantage they have and unfair competition and unequal business conditions, because they have EET and, for example, craftsmen, hairdressers, gardeners are not obliged to do so. So when you remember the arguments a little bit, they keep repeating themselves from the same associations in a similar way, and they just adapt to the political situation. That's the second point. And third point, probably the most important one. You said there were no restaurants, no shops. Well, for example, in Kladensko, one shop ended up in a small village because an EET was introduced. But that's not just a subjective impression. I said here once in the discussion that the result of the introduction of the EET according to the Association of Czech Traditional Trade in 2017 ended 1 082 rural stores with mixed goods, another 513 in 2018. [[Time. Time, please.]] I'll finish the rest, if necessary, in another remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u130	Thank you, rapporteur. And now the Minister with priority rights without a time limit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u131	Thank you. So let's cut some more speeches, maybe. Mr Nacher says he'll come out with a different look. Well, it was exactly the same as your previous speakers, but it wasn't really a different look. And I'll try to disprove some inaccuracies. 365 million were acquisition costs, not 400. Operating costs 2017 - 410 million, 2018 - 390 million, 2019 - 410 million, 2020 - 390 million. Yes, when we turn it off, we don't use it, so it costs us nothing 80 million a year. Last year, $80 million for nothing, this year, $80 million for nothing. Mr Nacher, as well as his colleagues, describes what a disaster will be if we cancel, and he is silent about the fact that it has not been going on for two years, so the disaster has probably already occurred. All these rascals are robbing again, robbing. What difference does it make whether it's suspended or cancelled? None. The system just doesn't work. It is quite nice that Mr Nacher is opposed to the third and fourth waves, but he has never succeeded in his movement. You wanted the head of the head as a third wave as a movement. I do not rule out the fact that the Member's personal opinion was different, but he failed with it within your movement. The tax cuts you wanted - how would I put it? - to reduce the impact, I'll be very polite, we're not interrupting. So the advantage will remain for those who had. Nothing, we're not planning any tax increases to the EET level. 42 billion isn't the yield in the last year's forehead, but the expected yield if we start the third and fourth waves. It's also in the explanatory report. I already talked about it once today. So it's not like that. [[22.20 hours]] It may be surprising, but we are accustomed to fulfilling our promises. I think we said we didn't support the EET at the first moment, and we said from the first moment we had the strength, now I mean the political force, or most, that we would cancel it. It is really touching - ironically, I think: let us not disturb what the past government will do, it is not clever, from wall to wall. Who abolished the second pillar of a voluntary pension reform that was not mandatory? Voluntary! Who canceled it without blinking an eye on a thing as sensitive as the pension system? Wasn't the YES movement hand in hand with the ČSSD? I'll answer yes. Where was the approach then: let's not interrupt what one government has introduced so that we don't put those taxpayers in some kind of... Because it's from wall to wall? And I say, but the system was voluntary, we didn't force anyone, yet you mercilessly shut it down. Who canceled a single collection point to claim eight years later that they would prepare a new single collection point? Mr Nacher has a favourite topic, as I have heard in the media in recent months, of double standards. He's always complaining, and the way they're supposed to, I think he's got it in his genes, the YES movement, complaining all the time - we're the beatings and we're fair and everybody's against us. Not all are - the Communists were with you, the Socialists were with you, sometimes the SPD was with you, so don't complain, you're not completely alone in this. So it's not a double standard that if you cancel without mercy something approved by the previous government, it was okay? I didn't notice that you offered any debate here that you would leave the voluntary system of the second pillar, and now that we're fulfilling our agenda according to our electoral promises, you're convincing us that it's not reasonable. We don't do it because you accepted it. We are far from breaking everything and all the laws that your government adopted, whether you were the main party or the other main party in the two or three governments that you had. We're only interrupting what we've long been convinced is simply not right. I saw, Mr. Nacher showed me a list of those speakers or panelists performing at the seminar. I can't deny that these people were telling us how you reproduced it. And if I had to call it, that was an EET group of friends. I think we're able to hold another seminar where other entrepreneurs come in, who, like this part they were up for, will be against. I'm not saying that all entrepreneurs are against the EET, not even those who have the first and second wave, but it's also not that everyone is up for it. Yes, they were here from the association led by Karel Havlíček, there was an association led by Stárek, and I respect that from the start, who supported the project, and again I have to appreciate that they are consistent and have not changed that view. We, in turn, consistently have the opposite view. So I respect that, but let's call it the EET Friends' Seminar, and we can do an EET dissenting seminar at any time. Whether it's a political priority or not, I think it is. However, the law has been here for months, and we didn't put it on the program until the end of June, because there were other priorities. We can say that, I think he arrived here in March, so we didn't discuss him for three months, because at that time we really had a different priority. However, since there is a threat of the emergence of a third and fourth wave, and neither of you nor the opposition has come up with a proposal that the third and fourth wave should not be, I do not know such a legislative proposal for the YES movement, many times apart from the total abolition in the previous and previous parliamentary term, we have proposed at least to cancel the third and fourth wave, we have never succeeded. I do not know, of course, whether Mr Nacher voted with us or against us, I am sorry, I do not know, it is possible that he also voted with us for the abolition of the third and fourth waves, but the YES movement as such never wished it. And we have to say that some restaurants really don't have the opportunity to pay with a card. When the Member was preparing for his speech, I spoke about it in another speech about seven hours ago, and I said that it was a matter for debate, and let us discuss it before and during the second and third reading, as it is an obligation to receive cash, whether it would be an obligation to accept payments even cash-free. But I wanted to say that many, especially the small ones, do not have the payment systems not because they want to cheat and put untaxed money in their pockets, but for them in their small sales and fees for banks are not entirely easy. I talked to them about it, I talked to the Czech Banking Association about it. It's not that simple to put it at some acceptable value. So that's why in some restaurants there's no credit card payment, because of course it's costing the businessman. Yeah, well, in a top-notch restaurant in a city where there's a lot of tourism where there's a lot of strangers, that's not the problem. But in the smaller ones that we care about, sometimes that's gonna be a problem, and I don't see any legislative solutions yet to solve this. We just can't order the law on what the fee should be and enter into those contractual relationships. And what I wanted to say is that this is one of the reasons, although especially your colleague here today has been telling these tight stories about how those criminal entrepreneurs don't want to accept anymore, they don't want to accept those payments with a card, and that it's unethical. Well, it's not ethical, because the law allows it. I am also a fan of cash payments in some restaurants or in some fields where I pay, as Mr Nacher said, that he likes cash payments as well, for example, in restaurants I pay almost only in cash. Not because I think I'm contributing to some illegal activity, but because it suits me personally. Sometimes I pay with my card, and I'd like the customer to have a choice. Well, now that you're on the verge of volunteering today, you can answer for yourself - but I don't want to talk to the second pillar - why you canceled the voluntary second pillar and not mandatory. But I don't want to, it was a rhetorical question, I don't want to hear the answer, I'll save it another time. All right, well, I have to apologize for a moment, I didn't want to introduce it, I reacted to Mr Nacher, who likes to talk about double standards, so I caught him in his discipline when he proved himself a master of double standards, whether he's judging his movement or his political opponents. I told you three times today, you just can't convince us not to cancel, just like we didn't convince you not to. Mr Volný and I have remembered how many times we have met on this subject in various media and interviews, and that is probably all I would say. Well, since you're so concerned about the third and fourth waves, I'm really sorry that you haven't put forward a legislative initiative to this day to show your will and your opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u132	Thank you for your performance. And now, first of all, two factual points, namely Mr Patrik Nacher and then Vice-President Karel Havlíček. So please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor with your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u133	Thank you. I'll respond quickly. I don't know if I can make it. First of all, I actually talked about the first, second wave, I highlighted it about five times in that speech, and my fellow rapporteur farted on the third and fourth wave again. That's one thing. Secondly, I didn't say no one went bankrupt. I didn't say that look. I said that it failed less than the new ones, and I said this number here, that means increasing the number of businesses, for example, in hospitality between 2016, 2019 by 9,000 up. Nor did I say and use the word disaster - Minister, I did not say it was a disaster. I didn't say that. And you said I said it was a disaster, and none of it is happening. I didn't say it was a disaster. I said that this EET is now voluntary and participates in 60 per cent, 60 per cent of businessmen in hospitality. As far as the coalitions are concerned, at this point, I wouldn't blame each other for the fact that you're in the coalition with the SPD, and the only YES movement is against it. So you have this giant six caliber. [[22.30 hours]] Enemy seminar EET, so set it up, I'm glad if you invite me, I'll come, just like I'm here - opponents, sorry, opponents. Come on, let's do this. And the last one, the double standard. Well, thank you. I see it's a double standard, that he's already gotten into your heads like this, and that the Treasury Secretary is using it. Well, I'm happy for that, and I'll tell you what the poodle core of this double standard is. You set an example of the other pillar here, maybe Alena Schillerová will answer that, and I'll apply again, because I can see that it's quite different in character, it can't be compared. But the basic problem is that you guys criticized it earlier, that something will be implemented by the government, and the other one will cancel without a trace, but you're actually doing the same thing now. That means it's time to ask what the change is for the better. [[Your time. Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And that's the double standard that you're actually repeating... [[The President: it has expired.]] ... the same. Time's up, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u134	And now, please...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u135	Thank you. I'm just gonna briefly respond to the EET Friends' Club. In the Czech Republic we have the largest union or chamber, it is the Chamber of Commerce, the second largest is the Association of Industry, the third is the Association of Small and Medium, the fourth, I hope to say it right now, is the Union of Trade and Tourism and the Fifth Association of Hotels and Restaurants. All these five friends of EET, but the five biggest representatives, were definitely in favour. To be objective, the Chamber of Commerce is for such a little shrug, not completely enthusiastic about everything, but why are they for? Not because some of their leaders got excited about it, there's a general meeting going on, the general meeting is nominated by some Bureau, and that's what they're getting. So let's either agree that we're dealing in terms of some kind of communication and partnership with these business unions, for example, in terms of tripartite or others, or that we're not dealing with them. I take it, you can always decide on power, you can always go against tripartite, you can always go against the opinion of the key business unions, but then let's not say they're our partners and we're keeping their point of view. If I'd known that the five biggest ones were, like, two pros, three cons, I'd take it, but here it's pretty straightforward. You're going against the business unions, so you're going against most of their membership bases. Which I'm not saying that part of these bases has an opinion similar to yours. [[Doesn't it?]] I've seen it in the association, too, but the overwhelming majority is really for EET. That's just a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And now it was a priority right, but the President left the hall, so Mrs Romana Fischerová duly applied for. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u137	Good evening. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the EET has provided almost 60 billion additional revenue for the state budget during its operation. Given that the current government is trying to save freely where it can, often at the expense of our citizens, one would say that it will appreciate the system that brings such substantial revenues to the state budget, especially in a situation where it is supported not only by the general public but also by entrepreneurs themselves. For example, Miroslav Lukeš, who runs the Czech Fintech Association, is convinced that it would be a mistake to disturb EET. Mr Lukeš was told that, in his view, the EET is an instrument that has been adopted by a large part of entrepreneurs and which has brought a number of benefits. In his view, the state should rather look for ways to use this system as part of the digitalisation process. Mr. Lukeš could imagine using the system in the idea of a digital tax return. This already works in different countries. At the same time, Mr Lukeš blames the current government for claiming how much he digitizes the Czech Republic, but he plans to shut down the digitalisation of retail. EET could be used, for example, in the digitization of administration or tax returns, as well as in the implementation of a digital register of receipts. Let us also remember that, with the removal of the EET, there is a risk that traders will stop accepting cards in large numbers, which will move the Czech Republic back in time and far beyond other European states. The EET is also generally supported by the Chamber of Commerce, as it sees measures to limit unfair competition or to level up the business environment. Entrepreneurs holding back sales and thus not paying taxes or health and social insurance will undoubtedly benefit from the EET against those who are regular payers. Now that customers come into the business with EET, they may feel good about being with a businessman who is honest and who pays taxes properly. Similarly, the cancellation of EET is criticized by trade unions, which are also directly proposing to expand the EET. The head of the Czech Moravian Trade Union Josef Středula even called on the government to fundamentally reconsider plans for the total abolition of the EET and to extend its scope to all relevant taxpayers according to the original plans. According to him, this step is necessary for the establishment of tax justice and brings the necessary resources for public finances in the Czech Republic, given that EET brings tens of billions of crowns to the state budget, which would otherwise have eluded it. And in order to preserve the EET, both the general public and traders are themselves, the Chamber of Commerce and trade unions. I'm hardly looking for reasons to cancel the EET. The only reason for all of this is the efforts of the current government to abolish anything that the YES movement has introduced, even regardless of what citizens want and what the state is contributing. In conclusion, I'd like to ask a favor. I'm here for the first term, it's been eight months, and sometimes I feel like some ministers here are dealing a little bit, dealing with Mr. Babiš here, and they're dealing with YES here, and it's behind every sentence and every word and especially every presentation. And I think, let's face the Chamber of Deputies a little differently so we don't have to be ashamed of her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u138	Thank you for your speech, Madame. And now, Mr Roman Kubíček, Mr Miloš nový will be prepared, the last to be submitted to the debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u139	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Too bad the Minister left, I'd probably talk to him, but I've got a reporter here who will be able to represent him. I have a few questions. The very first question will probably be about the sentence of Minister Stanjura, which he answered to his colleague Rais, and that is that the school can actually use the system. It was one of my questions because a certain system is being built up, and the question is whether we're going to continue to manage the system, then we could talk about the voluntary EET, and there was some hope from those words that at least the voluntary EET could work, because otherwise I wouldn't completely understand how they could use the system if the system wasn't functional. That's what we said, okay? That's what we said. So that would be one question I'd like an answer to. I appreciate from both the Lords, and from Minister Stanjura and also from Mr Munzar, through Madam President, that he does not change his rhetoric at the time. They were one of the propulsion engines that kept us from receiving the EET, and they acted quite consensually and worked. I could therefore argue with some of the statements I have read in the paper, where, for example, the honourable colleague Munzar speaks of the fact that EET has no financial contribution, while the financial contribution to the Ministry of Finance is calculated and educated in sum. It's not like it's interesting. Just for example, I'm going to introduce a strange system that old Members know, remind them if they haven't heard it. The name of the system is CRAB. CRAB, the Central Property Register of the State administered by... the former secretary will help me with what's-his-name... for the management of property... Arajma, the director... Office for State representation in property matters. There was an interesting register. The registry was supposed to put all the properties of the state into some dababáze. The database was intended to evaluate the costs of the operation of individual buildings, including rents, including electricity consumption, including the cost of meters, the costs of persons and so on, and at the same time to show the government the occupancy and freedom of individual buildings, their necessity and so on. And when I joined the Supervisory Committee, and again through Madam President, my colleague Munzar here will confirm that, there were 27 percent of the buildings in the system at that time. We then took some measures, and the new headmistress competed over individual contractual relationships, because before the system was fully operational, it cost 3.5 billion, and I think the annual costs were somewhere around 380 billion. And after the intervention of the director of Araj, there has been a recompetitive process and the whole system is about - don't take my word for it - CZK 70 billion. So there's been some efficiency, and the system hasn't been effective for about eight years. About eight years. It became the subject of a review committee, and only on the basis of some pressure was there any change, because we, for example, found that in this republic the authorities were moving in rents and had vacant buildings. In the same city, he was supposed to stand up to his own buildings that he just didn't use. [[2.40 hours]] And now we have this system that stood back in that estimate of about 1 billion, and I'm asking, would this system not be more efficient to use? And I'm not gonna get the coalition here today, and it's decided, 108 is 108, and I'm pretty sure it's gonna end up being voted off the EET. But whether it would be worth considering that this system should be used to digitize this state, such as electronic tax returns, such as allowing the voluntary registration for the EET. Why not, if there's a call, there's a demand. Everyone, when we're campaigning, we're standing on the streets, and these people are coming to us, and I agree, I met people who refused EET, but on the other hand, I met the same group of people who very much welcomed EET. And regardless of the fact that some union representatives are calling for it. For example, Mr Prouza expressed the idea that, by starting the EET, there has been a significant shift in this area, and tourism has taken the course of some progressiveness. So here we should say how it's going to work, if it's going to be a dead system, then I don't quite understand how this college could use it. If any practical maintenance is done to make this system work, there may be a time when it's not up to date, and in six months' time, we can decide that this volunteering EET isn't bad, because if the system is still in some kind of operational condition, it's gonna work. The second thing that will also be quite interesting to me, because if I understand correctly from the Ministry of Finance's data, the EET has made a significant reduction in business controls and targeted interventions. That means where there used to be problems, the tax administration went practically for sure, and if I heard, I think the success rate was 50 percent, and in the previous period, when it was done by random control, it was about 10 percent. So it's very significant. It is true that the entrepreneurs and users of the EET are calling for some tolerance from the Ministry of Finance. They would be very welcome if the Treasury were to say, "You who use the EET, we have access to your data, and we don't have the need to annoy, annoy and control you in any way, because we see the data. And because I'm an analyst and statistics, I'm just saying that the data, that's what the state needs, and it's able to evaluate and support various sectors of business and support what benefits the Czech Republic, that's also the larger tax return, and then use those taxes for development, whether it's transport, whether it's a road network, whether it's education, health care and so on and so on. That makes sense to me. So if we work and we work with that system, it would be good if some analytical team sat down and told us how to use this tool. And I repeat again, even the second form may be the voluntary EET, but from the first stage, there will certainly be many opportunities not to kill the system, because if you kill the system, lock it up, the system will be out of order in a year, because clearly it won't be good for software or hardware at that time. And I remember very well, and again it was on the Audit Committee when the electronic toll was being introduced, and here the Minister of Transport was sitting with us at the same time in the Audit Committee and he knew that I was a very strict chairman, who practically called the Minister of Transport to account every two months, and I think we were able to create a great deal of pressure to create such conditions that there was no delay, no loss of funds, and so on. So I think that the Supervisory Committee could once again take this initiative and monitor the use of this system. And all I'm saying is use it. Yes, you promised it wouldn't be mandatory. You promised, you said there was no need to start it, and somehow it started it, and I respect the words of Minister Stanjura, who said: you had the strength to do it back then, and now we have the strength to cancel it. And so I consider it inefficient and a little inefficient to really do this in this form. I keep saying, it's an instrument of the state, it's an electronic tool of the state. It's one of the ways to digitize. And I also note in the EU that we are giving this instrument unnecessarily, because, for example... Who do I have here? Yes, Madam Vice-President of the Pirates. That's your rhetoric - digitization, modern state, a citizen who doesn't have to go to an office that can do everything, and this is one of those tools. And now I'm not talking purely about EET. I am talking about how this system can be used. I don't want to go into the controversy here that said how much it took, who was satisfied and who was dissatisfied. Then a colleague from the other side will come out and tell me again who was dissatisfied, and vice versa, and we'll talk here for two hours about who was content and dissatisfied, and then I'll bring my ten people, he'll have his ten people, they'll fight, we won't leave with any result. But all I'm saying is that if we really have a tool like this, it would be good to use it, it would be good to talk about it. And I've even heard here, let's say, in some media space, that the Minister is willing, for example, to communicate with ANO club representatives about it in some form. Then all of a sudden, rhetoric has changed slightly and communication is discommunication. And I don't think it's the right way to go. Now, there's one more thing I'd like to say about that. We're here at a time of enormous pressure on the state budget, a lack of money, and I'm a little surprised that we're not using the instrument, and it's on that voluntary basis today. Clearly, even those he helped in the business use it. And then let's ask ourselves a question for the employees - and we'll go back to the restaurants and the pubs and so on and so on - what about the salaries? The salaries have increased, as I recall, by 7.6 percent after the introduction of the EET. And now we're going to block it, and now we have inflation that's going to be approaching some 20 percent, and how much do these people get? Something on the arm again, something on the side, how's it gonna work? Some tip and so on and so on. And that state is going to miss it, and now I'm talking about not expanding the EET system, he's going to be missing CZK 13 billion in a year. I don't think that's enough. I know it's in the percentage, and Minister Stanjura said it here, it's about 1.1 percent of the state budget. But as they call it, a penny to a penny, a Mercedes in the backyard. And if we are really rational and open up some debate about this, and my honourable colleague Patrik Nacher, through Madam President, offered a round table, with the involvement of the enemies of the EET, because if you want to convince someone, you have to talk to him. It can't be ordered, it's got to be some kind of discussion. And I have many times, in turn through the Vice-President, with Mr Munzar interesting debates on various issues. And I never force my opinion on him, I always listen to his opinion. We don't always meet. Sometimes we're right, we can convince ourselves, and that's the kind of person that can listen and deal with. Then why doesn't it work anywhere else? I'm gonna use an example again. We have a health committee here, there are about the most anointed heads in which everyone has an opinion, and they have to have the firm hand to fix it, but they leave the opinions there, and how many times was something that was insurmountable and two round tables suddenly found a solution. And the solution should be found now. And right now, I don't think it's gonna sound great from me, but I'm saying that we should look together for problems to solve electricity, its prices. How we should solve food prices and so on and so on. And that's not exactly politics at the moment. That's what we should do for these people out of the obligation that we've been elected here, that we work here and that we're here to defend their interests in some way. And if we're losing the money that we can give these people if I say it completely stupidly, if we just take the money and give it to support the energy, then we'll save people some money. So what about this tool? It's a kind of database tool, it keeps track of the individual entrepreneurs, you can draw some data from it. And let's talk about how we're gonna fill it. How we're going to fill this system. And once again, if we ever want to go back to volunteering for EET, we can, the system will still work, but we can work out something for which this system, which cost quite a lot of money, will be effective. And then one more thing. I was listening to the SPD representative here who said that 7,000 seats were created because of the EET system. Have him come here to list the 7,000 jobs that were created for the EET. That's absolute nonsense. You need to read. I've seen the numbers. It's about the rules downstairs. So I'd be careful there, too. [[2.50 hours]] I also understand what you're saying with the flat-rate tax, how it works, but it would have to be some system of Sweden, that flat-rate taxes for some businessmen to a certain level are graduated by the size of the city, which is not entirely funny, and it's issued there in the form of a so-called highway sign that they're actually going to pay the flat-rate tax, and then the plant year works. Taxi drivers have the same thing in taxis and so on and so on. And then one more guinea pig with the EET and how it's used, because some colleagues here said where they saw what they saw. I was in Japan, and when we visited Japan, we visited the area where the Siku deer is. And it's quite hot, it's quite damp, so you're thirsty. And there was a Japonka woman in her 80s to 100s, and she was dragging this wheelchair with ice, and she had these waters, these little waters. That water cost 20 kroner for our money, if I say so, that's what it said. And she pulled the receipt out of the skirt she was wearing, so she pulled out the phone, and she normally gave you a receipt from the phone. Which shocked me because we were watching it, so we really didn't believe it, so we took a picture. I still have that picture. So I guess it's about the upbringing, the people, and what they want, and it's about listening to what these entrepreneurs want and what they don't want. And that volunteering is the minimum we can do for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech raised three factual points, or series. First of all, it is Mrs Věra Adámková, then Mr Patrik Nacher and then Mr rapporteur. So, your two minutes, madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u141	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Please nicely, of course I respond to my previous speakers, but even at this late time I have to say that we are being watched, and I have a few questions here. You're going to say - and it's going to be a link to the health department? And bingo, you're gonna be right, because, please, nicely, now I've got two questions to ask, and it's brought up the speech of my fellow honored Roman Kubíček, but I'm sure that engineer Munzar will take that into account and maybe he'll answer, please, nicely. And they're not yes voters, they're just people who write. First of all, EET, please nicely, first of all, people welcomed because they were becoming competitive somewhere, and they are people who live in Moravia in medium-sized cities, or it is not really a question of Prague. So now they're worried, and I don't know if they're right or wrong, please, I'm asking this question here. I don't even think I'm gonna get an answer today, just so we can take it into consideration. If they become uncompetitive again, because they're transparent, they're doing everything right, so if you're calculated, I don't think so, but I'm asking, maybe I'm wrong, what this would have had to do with the closure of certain establishments. And then the impact on the fact that, eventually, those people would end up in the employment office. Like I said, I don't think it's counted now, but I'm asking for this little tour, and I'm sure we'll talk about it. Thank you, Mr. Engineer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u142	Thank you for keeping time. And with another factual fact, Mr Patrik Nacher is registered. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u143	Well, thank you. I had a factual point before that I didn't have enough to answer the Minister to the difference between this EET and the abolition of the second pillar. I think it's almost a separate seminar. I see a few differences there. Firstly, the second pillar is some long-term strategy of a country where it would be worth agreeing with the coalition and the opposition, as well as energy strategies, the energy mix of the country, which is a matter that decides for several generations in advance. And pension reform is for several generations... and for several parliamentary periods, respectively, ahead. This really makes a significant difference compared to the introduction of the EET as an idea. The second difference I see in the success of the matter, because if I remember correctly, and perhaps the Minister will correct me, but some 75-80 thousand people have entered the second pillar that I remember. It was not successful and it was introduced at a time when other countries left this principle. That means the comparison is really limping, and in this case, it is, I'm sorry, but in this case, it's out. But as I said before, even if a hundred times what I just said wasn't true, one of your electoral passwords was that you would do it differently. Otherwise, meant better. So if you do it better, it doesn't mean that you're actually going to repeat, since you already consider it that way, the same mistakes that the competition against which you define yourself made. Because then you do it the same way. And then I don't see the added value. That means that this is not an argument for me, and I look forward to the seminar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u144	That is how your factual and now the rapporteur has expired. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Fair shows deserve a fair reaction. So to my colleague Kubíček, through you. We've said it here several times in our performance, but the response to the electronic tax returns, which I understood from your performance that it might have a welcome effect on the voluntary EET, so we've been over this a few times. The electronic sales log does not record all sales, records only cash sales, does not record cash-free payments, at the same time EET does not register costs. That's all the more information you need to file a tax return. That means the idea of an EET e-tax return isn't real, that's the first reaction. The second reaction to Mrs Adámková, who asked about the reduction, I will say competitiveness. If you're comparing it to today-- that's what we said here-- so your EET is off today. So, with you canceling the EET from 1 January, the terms and conditions to date do not change de facto. That would be two of the most important remarks I've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u146	And factual from the point of view, yes, please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u147	Well, thank you. Just your middlemanship with a colleague of Munzar. I didn't say he was registering it. I said it could be a carrier, I'm saying, that's the first thing that works here. And then the other thing that is, and that was the debate here, when Mr. Pilný was the Minister of Finance, we were discussing how to actually prevent the tax evasion. Well, it's simple. If you pay everything with a credit card, you won't have the money, it won't work, so we don't need this system at all in global because some countries have limited cash payments in some amounts and then they don't really need this account because all electronic payments are registered in another system. It's just - I didn't say we could do it, I said he's a carrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u148	Thank you for the de facto one. And so now we have the last two entered into the general debate. Mr Miloš Nový, that is. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u149	Madam President, honourable Members, there has already been a lot of talk here about electronic records of sales, in EET short. But what I lacked here is the view of economic theory, how theoretical economics treats this very issue to the lay public. I would start with the very concept of the market economy. In short, we see the market economy as a game according to certain rules. One of these rules is, for example, that you deliver the goods to me and I will pay you. The importance of rules within any game can be approached by example of a game that we know very well - man, don't be angry! What is the basic opening rule of this game? Only one who throws a six can wear it. But how would you like it if I put on a four or a two? Of course it didn't, because such a game would make no sense. And so is the market economy. If you deliver the goods to me and I don't pay you, the game called the market economy is losing its meaning. [[23.00 hours]] However, the rules of the game alone are not enough for the flawless functioning of the market economy. A mathematician would speak of a condition necessary, not sufficient. Why? Because the rules of the game may be gold in quotation marks, yet they will not work in a situation where - secondly - there is no control of these rules. Again, this second condition is a condition necessary, not sufficient, in the words of mathematics. Why? Because the missing third condition for effective functioning of the market is punishing those who violate the rules of the game. What I have briefly indicated here is that in economics, we refer to the institutional environment of the market economy, consisting of the creation of rules, their control and the sanctioning of those who violate the rules of the game. The second concept I want to talk about in relation to the market economy is the principle of comparing benefits and costs. Economic operators, such as households and firms and the state, are guided in their decision-making by comparing benefits and costs. If the benefits of any activity are greater or higher than the cost of this activity, then it is rational to carry out this activity. On the contrary, if the costs are higher than the benefits, then it is desirable not to carry out the activity. An excellent example for understanding this principle is the electronic sales log discussed here. What are the benefits? The most common is, firstly, the increased fiscal returns of the state to which I will return and, secondly, the settlement of a competitive environment where dishonest entrepreneurs lose their illegal advantage to the honest. What are the costs? Firstly, the increased costs of entrepreneurs to acquire the relevant facilities enabling electronic records, secondly the permanent operating costs associated with payments to various providers for enabling online connectivity, thirdly administrative fines linked to any, in many cases also banal, offense against very strictly set administrative rules of the EET and finally, fourthly, the loss of businesses unwilling or unable to proceed with the above mentioned costs, while the loss of these entrepreneurs, which create values and jobs for others, also means the addition of those who depend on others or those who depend on the State. I said I would return to the increased fiscal benefits of the state. Today, many specific figures in billions of crowns fell here about the direct contribution of EET to the Treasury. However, those who argued with specific figures have committed one of the most common errors in economic practice. This error, this ambush, this trap in economic thinking is called a ceteris paribus or under otherwise the same conditions. If we wanted to compare precisely how the EET specifically contributed to the revenue of the Treasury, we would have to compare two periods: the first period before the introduction of the EET and the second period after the introduction of the EET, while all other conditions affecting the national economy would have to remain the same. This means that average consumer pensions, size of the market, price change and availability of substitutes, subjective conditions, specific conditions, costs of producers should not be changed, the form of market competition should not be changed, by which I mean the existence of monopolies, oligopolyes, monopoly competition. Finally, the pace of economic growth of the economy should not change. How can you precisely quantify the benefits of EET in a situation where the economic growth of the Czech Republic will accelerate and thus consumers will spend more, which will logically reflect on the growth of the state's income, or, on the contrary, in a period when the Czech economy will slow significantly or even fall into recession? This quantification is very difficult, if not impossible, because the national economy is affected by tens or hundreds of factors and EET is only one of these factors. If I sum up the above, then the rules yes, control yes, punishment yes, but the way in which the benefits of the check will be higher than the costs associated with it. Electronic records of sales are certainly not part of these forms of control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u150	Thank you. Thank you. This contribution raised Mr Ondřej Babka's factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u151	Thank you again for the floor. Mr. Colleague, I would, because it's always these parallels that have such pitfalls...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u152	Please, through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u153	Yes. By your help, Madam Vice-President, I apologize. Man, I'm sorry! is a game for children from the age of three. And of course, sometimes, even with the smaller children, you just have to play and you have to put them on a figurine, even if they don't throw a six. That's one thing. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And then the other thing. I also found a modification of the game man, don't be mad!, which is called matfyzac, and it is suitable for four players and in this case each player begins with four figures of different colors, all players have the same set, and try to get four figures of different colors into the pigsty, and after the play plan can move any figure of color that he doesn't have in the house or in the pigsty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u154	Thank you. And now Mr Patrik Nacher is still reporting with a point of fact. In the meantime, I'll read an apology. Between twenty-three and two o'clock in the morning, Mr.Róbert Teleky apologizes for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes to de facto. Quiet in the hall, please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u155	Thank you. I'd take the liberty of reacting. [[Vote in plenary: Six figures.]] Not on the number of pieces or on the game, man, don't be mad!. First of all, no one has answered me, or to us, the basic question - not even a colleague of New - with that distinction to restaurants who are honest, pay taxes and pay their employees officially, and to those who are not. And those who do not have a competitive advantage of it - lower costs, which, among other things, was also resolved by the introduction of the EET, solved, almost solved. And you haven't answered my question yet. What's the problem? Because the honest one paid taxes before and after the EET. And the situation is only changing for those who didn't admit the taxes. I'm not convincing you here, you're overvoted. I'm just giving you that opinion. Furthermore, what my colleague Karel Havlíček said here is true. Just the largest associations and associations representing entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic are for. So now I don't know who you're actually speaking for, because in other places and in other laws, you're shielding yourself by representing the public and people outside this hall. And as for the last thing, that's the bigger tax collection. There, my colleague, through the President, it is quite simple there. You're just comparing the base between different disciplines, that's how tax payments grew year on year before and after the introduction of the EET in the field where the introduction of the EET was and where it wasn't, because those conditions are taken into account there. [[- Please, time.]] And the only difference is the introduction of an EET. And the difference there is noticeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u156	Time, Mr. Ambassador. There. And now, with a point of fact, the Minister. Please, two minutes again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u157	It is clear that the YES movement is in an argumentative emergency. All this time, we've been saying that your alleged increased returns are on the water, because I remember the famous study that you submitted after a lot of pressure. You were unable to answer why sales, for example, in other fields where EET was not mentioned, grew faster than in the fields to which it was imposed. That's hard, isn't it? That's surprising. Then I think you're coming out of a completely crazy assumption that when the economy grows, so linearly, all the business sectors of the economy are growing. Mr Nový here has made it clear to you that you simply cannot quantify the benefits. I heard today that it was 6 billion, 8, 10, 12, 14, someone said 60. I remember those thousands of preschools, hospitals, hundreds of miles of highways that all of this EET was supposed to pay. You haven't been able to submit relevant data over the years to say yes, and this data clearly shows that there was some positive benefit. You weren't able to do that. [[23.10 hours]] We discussed this very closely, the so-called benefit study, on the budget committee about the previous or the previous parliamentary term, I don't remember. And that's it. You are unable to reasonably refute the arguments put forward by Mr Nový. For this you have an expert among you who is able to play with Czech figures, put on when he wants, and let him break the rules and say what has to be done. [[Fun in the hall, applause for the coalition MPs.]] Congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u158	And now with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u159	Minister Stanjur, when you just speak to the oak, you speak to the oak. If we brought x studies, but we brought them at a time when we couldn't have any relevant results yet, you always found counterarguments. It was your mantra, lack of ideas of your own political, so you just chose EET. What are you gonna come up with next? With a check report? When did we liquidate the carousel scams to get back to them? What do you come up with next time you shut down the EET? And now three more notes. Second pillar of pension reform. Well, what were we supposed to do with him? This was no pension reform. That was some kind of experiment, 85,000 people remained in it, it was being introduced in our country at a time when the surrounding states were already leaving this system, so what were we supposed to do about it? No one was interested in entering it, it stayed that way, there was nothing left but to cancel it. There just wasn't any other way. There's no reason. There's no reason. It's just a system that works, where curly businessmen today call for his at least voluntary... I'll perform one more time... voluntary preservation. I've got a quote from Mr. Prouza and from other representatives you know, I think there's even someone in Mr. Prouza's advisory body, Minister Síkela, if I'm not mistaken. It's a single collection point. I wouldn't say that. That's a dirty word. A single collection point, and I was at work at the time, in one of the dozen working teams still as an employee of the Financial Administration for mapping and such processes, it doesn't matter, now I won't hold it up. And I know exactly how it worked. The big sign, the legislation was adopted, that's right, it was accepted on the floor of the then Chamber of Deputies, and that turned it off. But a single collection point, Minister, can't only be drawn in legislative terms. There must be a basis - the basis is the connection of the IT system. And you were talking about the Czech Social Security Administration tonight, you were talking about the problems that they weren't able to do, and I believe you. I know that. I've been involved in x debates as Secretary of Finance, and I know the state of it. And in order for a single collection point to work, I want to forget the word, the phrase, the system of Financial Administration, the Czech Social Security Administration and health insurance companies must be connected. That's what we tried on that tiny sample of about 75,000 flat-rate taxes. Now hopefully, I don't know, it's not going to come after the three bands you invented, and I thought that was a pilot project, a miniature pilot project to build on it - let's not call it - you called it a national cloud, but it can name itself whatever it is, that's irrelevant - to get to it. Those were the intermediates, and that was the plan when you said we didn't have a plan. So it's a single collection point. If you remember - you often bounce around with the Supreme Audit Office. You're saying he blamed you for that or that, so then he blamed the government, I think the finance minister was Miroslav Kalousek at the time when it was realized, he said it cost some 4 billion, if I'm wrong, maybe 4.5, 4.2. But it was spent on completely different things than what it was intended for. So I'm just asking for a single collection point when you mentioned him here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u160	Thank you. And thanks to this performance, we find ourselves in a small blur of factual remarks. Yes, Mr Patrik Nacher, then President Markéta Pekarová Adamová and then Mr Minister with a factual view. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u161	Well, I'd like to respond one more time. Colleagues, honored colleagues, you're gonna start a dangerous precedent here, what the Minister said, and what my colleague Nový said, and I'm gonna be watching it as a double standard. Because as you described it, in principle, any measure is unmeasureable. Because you said you could measure it before and after, unless all the other conditions change, which is unrealistic. That means that the moment you come here in a year, some of your measures worked, I'll remind you of this double standard contribution. And to no longer apply, that is, if I have understood this well, Mr Honorable colleague Nový, through Madam President, that the introduction of the EET, which you are saying, has not chosen an extra crown above the cost. It's like the conclusion I'm taking from this. That's right, because you say it's unmeasureable, and that's how it needs to be described. You have the right to cancel. I'm not convincing you here. I'm just making some arguments. You give them back to me, you explain. And in a year, when some of your new measures come up, I'm gonna borrow this exact speech and remind you of your own arguments, and that's gonna be the double standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u162	Thank you for keeping time in order. And now with the de facto Mrs Markéta Pekarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u163	I will not really talk about double standards, but I will respond to President Schillerová. And I'm not surprised at all that you don't understand Mr. Nový's contribution, because Professor Nový, who's analyzed it, and in a way that maybe goes beyond the imagination of some of you, he's very impressed by your ability... [[Punching into the benches and a loud response from opponents.]] Help yourself, help yourself. I am very surprised by the ability, and I am actually glad for it, which was heard here from the mouth of President Schillerová, the self-aflexion - when you speak to the oak. Well, I don't know if the Prime Minister here was aware that she actually admitted that, yes, my colleague nový spoke unfortunately, I must say unfortunately, to the oak. The ability of oak to receive that information is not entirely appropriate in this sense and to evaluate it in full detail, perhaps, but you yourself have said so, you yourself have said so, Madam President, through the President. A great measure of self-esteem! I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u164	Sorry, we're in a blur of factual remarks that are already turning into a storm. N followed by Minister Zbyněk Stanjura with his application. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u165	So we have in our government's programming statement that we will change the parameters of the inspection report. The press is already here. So we suggested a change, just like we promised. We reduce nonsensical fines, meaninglessly high fines, for small entrepreneurs, that means for the self-employed, for s. r. o., where the owner is the only natural person, and for the quarterly VAT payer. At the same time, to those who are not afraid to open the messages that are found in their data box, we extend this absurdly short period of time to respond to the explanation. I think that's just right. Mark flat-rate tax as pilot - did she say microproject? Well, maybe I'd call it a pico project, it doesn't work that way anymore. And your concerns? I really don't understand that you don't understand what we've proposed. So today the flat-rate tax is uniform for all self-employed persons up to one million regardless of the flat-rate expenditure. What does our government propose for these self-employed people, what change? None. None. For those who are already in the flat-rate tax, we do not propose any change. Is it true or isn't it? A rhetorical question. The answer is clear. It's true. [[23.20 hours]] You have, I see, our graph, so look at it, and you have to tell me the truth. That's just the way it is. For those who have 80% flat-rate expenditure, the same rules remain regardless of the amount of income, which means up to 2 million. So out of nine boxes of six, it's filled with the same color, light blue. She's like ODS to us. ANO, they're trying to steal blue from us, but of course they won't. Logically, those who have - I'll sign up next time. [[The overseer draws attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u166	It's a whole mess of notes. YES gives an opportunity. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u167	I'd like to respond to the MP, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. She TOP 09 is such a special side. You guys always bark something up here, and then you run away. But in your case...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u168	Please, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u169	Through Madam President - speak silver, silence gold.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u170	Thank you, that was short. Now, President Alena Schillerová, with her factual point. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u171	I'll be short too. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Madam President Pekarová Adamová, I am so sorry, that was so deep. I'm just a woman from the village. I didn't quite get it. In that oak tree - I would never dare do that in my life for an honored colleague from the budget committee. That was the reaction to the Minister when he told me how we just weren't able to explain anything. Well, just to set it straight. I'm not stalling with flat-rate taxes today. We'll have a good time when it gets here. Mr. Secretary, it's so perfect that you had to make these boxes so that anybody could find it where it belongs. Read the comments from the Chamber of Tax Advisors. He even wrote to me now - I dropped the name, but I wouldn't want to publish it here - he wrote to me that he was a member of the NERV and that he agreed with the comments and that he would like to communicate with me about it. So it's about pink and it's not gonna be perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u172	Thank you for keeping time. Now we are still moving through this storm of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher, then Mr Radek Vondráček and Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry about the performance by Markéta Pekarová Adamová, because when she was the President of the Chamber of Deputies, she said she was representing the entire Chamber of Deputies. Today after the 15 performances, it was her - which I noticed, I don't know how it was here before, and I tried to listen to everyone - who was first in line, who didn't say any argument, but she just insulted her opponents. It seems to me that no Member should do, let alone the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u174	Thank you. With another de facto Member Radek Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u175	Thank you for the floor. Well, it won't be the first time Patrik Nacher has actually given me my contribution. I just want to say that the role of President of the Chamber of Deputies is not simple, in our system of competition, a party struggle for the more complex. However, at least in a framework, one should try to be impartial in some way, be the first among equals, be the chairman of all. You're my Madam President, too, through Madam President, and you just didn't do the part much today. You have to choose whether you want to be president of all of us or president of the 3% party. I just can't do both. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u176	Thank you. Please, now the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u177	The President does not need this, but if I had to follow up on the previous performance - the President of the House, who worked on the umpire as an officer of the ANO movement, said so and never joined all the MPs. We've been there for four years. I think the Prime Minister said nothing but that, as we say with the ODS classic, she raised her eyebrows a little bit. That very often the expertise of individual Members is picked up here, and here the professor of economics is mastered by those who are not so good in this field. Mr Nacher is a typical example of how he whines about double standards. He breaks it all the time. That your Member here - I always forget the name, I apologize - the Member who spoke a moment ago says that the Prime Minister has barked something. Where's the protection of mutual decency? Somebody barking, do we have a dog or a bitch? Yeah, sure, somebody's screaming again from that crowd of strangers, yeah. So where is the decency, madam - there sits the third one at the top of that alley - when they dare to call their colleague's performance barking or barking. And you're also applauding that it's delicious, excellent. But watch out, watch out, you can't do this to us. We can and you can't. I remember how you've always trained us here for how sensitive you were when we talked about all the presidents who were yelling about five thieves in the House, and didn't want to say who. And you applauded him fanatically. So start with yourself and question, try to question some of the arguments that Mr Nový here has made. Neither of you have done it yet. He did not říci, Mr Nacher, through Madam President. He didn't say the benefit was zero. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] He didn't say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u178	Please, time's up, really. Now with another de facto, then, Mr Radek Vondráček. Then Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Mrs Berenika Peštová and Mr Karel Havlíček. I don't know what to call it anymore. It's almost time to put an end to the storm, I think. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u179	I'll be very brief. I just think the Minister misses the parliamentary debate. That even though we're here late at night, he's actually happy about it, and that he's enjoying it and that he's just a parliamentary man and he wants to perform. But I would like to ask him: Minister, give me one example, one example, where I broke the Rules of Procedure and opposed this House as Prime Minister. And look what's happening now, in the last five or six months. When did you take our interpelations, when you enforced an extension of the pandemic law, even though you and your senators said you couldn't? When you took our interpelations, when this House leadership is completely adapting to the government. I've never done it. Never! And I stood up to the Prime Minister, like in a covido, when they wanted to discuss things quickly. I've spent four years - and until today I'm inclined - for four years I've always looked at Mr. Stanjura first. And he knows it. For four years, I've always looked at the opposition, and we've always behaved with respect to the opposition. Give me one example of when I did what you've been doing here for six months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u180	Thank you for your de facto. Now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u181	I'm not even gonna take a step. I'm logged in properly, two minutes. First of all, I will have the rhetoric and gestures of the Prime Minister. First of all, Madam Vice-President, you're not gonna tell us to end some crazy storm here. That's our business, and we'll perform as long as we want. First of all. Secondly, Madam President Pekarová Adamová. Self-flexion? So please, you have it too. Three, he's not yelling at me. [[Voice from the right.]] You're supposed to be sitting there, not here. Please don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u182	I beg you, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u183	Madam Vice-President, can you tell the Minister and the Prime Minister not to yell at me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u184	Yes. I can ask for peace in the hall, and so can I ask you to address me through me. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u185	Thank you, and I'm asking you to extend my time, because I'm not going to arrange my own order. Three. You're saying the Prime Minister was performing here. But the Prime Minister was the Prime Minister, and he was the chairman of our party. Whereas the President of the Chamber of Deputies is to be impartial. That's three.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u186	Please, please, really. There will be an opportunity to comment. Please continue, I'll add the seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u187	I think that what is now showing everyone here is shouting, and it is hard to hear that it is enough for citizens, Madam President, by your means.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u188	I'd just like to say that after my friendly call, there was no more de facto, except for one. Now, then, Mrs Berenika Peštová, with one de facto and then one last, President Markéta Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u189	I'd like to respond to Minister Stanjura. Of course, I wasn't talking about a particular person. I said it as a TOP 09. You've been here all day - I can do it straight - all day, and I respect you for sitting here with us and discussing it with us. And if you've registered, the TOP 09 has always come, barked here, and I don't mean... But she's just always barking up a line! [[A voice from the diaper.]] It was created... It is not a bad thing, again, through Mr President, if you want to discuss with me, press the factual one. She just said a line here -- I'm cleaning my chakra, yes, thank you. [[A Member in front of the rhetorical area to the speaker outside the microphone.]] [[He's laughing.]] She said a line and ran away cowardly. She's a coward! And the discussion continued here. The minister sat here and heard it. And the same thing has now been expressed here by our President, through Madam President, has also just said something here, but in her case, if you look at her being part of Twitter and Facebook, that's why I said that in her case it's really about talking silver, silence gold. That's why I said it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u190	Thank you for keeping time. Good evening. I've taken over the meeting. So now I have two factual points here. The first person to comment is the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u191	I like sayings, too. I like idioms, too. So, through the President, Mrs Bereniko Peštová, in this case, I think - I judge you by myself. If anyone's talking about barking, it sounds perfectly appropriate from your mouth. As for how Mrs Pastuchová, Madam Vice-President, was attacked here, I want to stand up for her. She really didn't say anything about wanting the way she's using to put an end to factual remarks or anything else. She's just saying there's a lot of notes. So I want to stand up for the way he's running the meeting, and that she's simply expressing herself about the amount, but she never said how she said to our colleague here that maybe it was something negative or something like that. So just please, since some of your members here, especially one, like to use something about double standards, please don't use it the way you're used to. You can bark here, you can apply the double standard here, but once we get back to you, is that wrong? So it's anything that can't happen? As for the position of President of the House in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, please, we do not have the rules, such as the Swedish Parliament, that the President would have to be fully impartial. So, please also, through the President, Mr Vondráček and others, do not say that it would have to be that way. It's not written anywhere. And if you do, I don't know about it, so please prove it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u192	Thank you for keeping time. We have other factual points. Mr. Michal Kučera, Mrs. Berenika Peštová, Zuzana Ožanová, Karel Havlíček and Alena Schillerová will be ready. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u193	Good evening, thank you for your word. We were planning till this morning, so I think we're gonna make it here. I, perhaps, to Mrs Peštová, the barking. I was quoting the great work of Zdeněk Jirotka and his Saturnin today, so maybe I'd like to tell her more holes - more elephants, more heads - more senses, many dogs - a rabbit's death, and a dog that barks, doesn't bite. That's what Aunt Kateřina said, and I think it suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u194	Thank you for keeping time. I would like to point out that the factual point responds, of course, to speeches in the general debate. The next person to report is Mrs Berenika Peštová. I'll ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u195	I do not have a problem, through Madam President, when there is a substantive debate going on here and there is simply a voice raising in this factual debate to give emphasis. I have absolutely no problem with that. You can tell me I'm barking here. I really don't have a problem with that. I don't have a problem. But the problem with you is that you haven't been here all day, you haven't been here all day, you come in, you let something out and you run out the cowardly door! That's the problem. [[Screams from the O.R.]] See, Madam President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u196	I will ask all Members not to shout out to those who speak at the speaker's desk. And I want to tell everyone again that at this point, we are discussing the sales record bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u197	Yes, and if the President stood up here, Madam President, I would also like to stand up, but again Mrs Pastuchová, who was standing here instead of the President shouting at those who were yelling - namely you, Madam President, who jumped up and hissed here! - instead screamed Mrs Pastuchová, which is wrong. No? If I'm in charge of a meeting, I'm gonna set up peace everywhere, and I'm not just gonna piss off who's at the counter. So I have a problem with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u198	Thank you for keeping time. Now another person who is registered with a point of fact is Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Madam, you have the floor. And I'd like some peace in the room. If there's anything you need to do, please go to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u199	Thank you. Madam President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you know, the first person who has completely forgotten what law we are discussing today was the President of the Chamber of Deputies. When she made her second point of fact, I thought she'd apologize. Since I'm sorry, Madam President has offended me, I think I have a high enough IQ to understand what's going on here. Perhaps it would be appropriate to correct this mistake, rejoin it, and perhaps even give an apology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u200	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point, Mr and Vice-President Karel Havlíček, will be prepared by Mrs Alena Schillerová and Olga Richterová. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u201	I would like to respond, and maybe to divert it a little bit now, the debate, the interesting speech by Mr Nový. That wasn't a bad speech at all. I liked him, and I have to say, he had a lot of things -- too bad he wasn't here -- right. There was no reason to mock him in any way. But the thing has a slightly different dimension. We can talk about how to quantify costs, how to quantify benefits, even if there was a professor here, former President Klaus, he could still dissect it, that was his favorite method, and you're right that it's not easy to put it that way at all. And we can argue here if those costs would be that and the benefits, the benefits, the others, and prove it. But the thing is different. It's not just about costs and benefits, it's about the fact that the role of the state isn't just about adding up and undermining, and when it's plus, it makes sense, and if it doesn't, it doesn't. The state is supposed to do a certain service, to serve. And it's supposed to be so simple that it's comfortable for everyone to have a part of it. He must conclude whether it pays off or not, but also whether the service he provides makes sense. There are a number of activities and activities that the state does and loses on them. So let's see if it makes sense or doesn't make sense. We believe that when a number of business groups think that they want it, the instrument is comfortable for them, they agree that there is also a qualitative indicator, now I do not mean the technological, but the contribution, and if I had counted into it, I might have broken not the theory, but also convinced Mr Nový, who once again thanked for the contribution that we may be right. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u202	Thank you for keeping time. The President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová, is the next person to make a point of fact. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u203	One sentence. I am with Mrs Pekarová, through you, Madam Vice-President. I'm glad we know who's who, and let's please go back to electronic sales log. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u204	I, too, thank you for the challenge. Another factual point - Vice-President Olga Richterová. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u205	Thank you. It happens very rarely that I agree with President Schillerová. I wanted to ask the same thing to go back to the sales log, and who wants to deal with how the meeting was managed here, I recommend video recording, screen recording and careful monitoring.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u206	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Ondřej Babka is the next person to make a point of fact. It's the last point of fact at the moment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u207	Thank you. I'm already coming up with it just to explain my previous entry. Of course, I, as an economic engineer, understood what Professor Nový meant by that, but I was just bumping into the beginning, and that is when he was just talking about the meaning of the rules and that we can all just put on a six. And that's just because we don't like it when someone throws a two or a four and puts it on. And that's the meaning of the sales log, that is, that everyone has the same rules and everyone has to throw a six. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u208	Thank you for keeping time. That was the last point of fact. We are returning to the general debate to which Mr Robert králíček is duly signed up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u209	Good evening, Madam Vice-President, colleagues. I've prepared for about an hour an excursion into the history of EET and digitalization. So I'd like to start somewhere so we can get to it. I think a lot of both sides have been said here, and it would be good to look at it from a distance around midnight. So I would try to do this thing. I don't want to respond to some of the performances because I think it would raise questions or reactions again, and I'd like to stick to the subject. However, I once took to heart the word of Minister Stanjura that it is not good for anyone to read something here, so I will speak on the floor, and so that we also get to some action after the hours, because we are being accused of just speaking in vain and it is not to the point and that we are trying to delay, so I would propose an action, and that this law be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u210	Thank you. Mrs Jana Pastuchová is another one who is enrolled in the general debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u211	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. There are more women here, but it doesn't look like a change in political culture. Never mind. I'm glad we have ten minutes before midnight. I have kept this post late because I want to respond, and I am sorry that it is not here, through you, Madam Vice-President, the Chairman of the TOP 09, who has been performing, and we have not had the opportunity to respond because it was only priority rights. He said you're ready to sit here till morning and that you don't mind at all. It doesn't bother us either, because when you blocked the EET in the last parliamentary term, we sat here for many days and nights, and you also fought to keep the EET from being approved. President of the TOP 09, with 3.5 percent of its electoral preferences, through you, has told us that he is a citizen. So I'd like to ask, what citizens are they dating? He said: I go among people and businessmen. Unfortunately, it is not among which people and among which entrepreneurs. Businessmen who want to cancel the EET? I, in turn, go to businessmen who like EET because they can control their employees, and I think it's the right thing to do. And now you're gonna cancel it. So we're actually going back to the gray economy. Everyone's gonna do what they want, everybody's gonna go without papers, no taxes, no state budget, when you took 14 billion for health care, so you're gonna come -- you're actually gonna get it back with something. Another thing he said to every businessman, or that this cost 1.5 billion. I was gonna ask him if he was thinking about everyone or everyone? He told us we were in the last century. Well, your government is in the '90s now! So I think, let's just say who's better and who's worse. You guys kept telling us we were populists because we were giving seniors. Your suggestions were to add families with children. Yes, you just added 5,000. But 5,000 to the age of 18. All social benefits are up to 26 years old. So who's the populist here? Next thing. You have the program - and I know what you have in the program you want to do - we will cancel the EET. That's probably why there's an emergency meeting tonight. And then in the program, we're going to cut the budget. But with what impact will you reduce the budget? You help businessmen. Medium, small? How do you help them, please? Any of your energy fiction that you're promoting on Facebook today, how did you help all the households? So I responded on Facebook to STAN, who says you're helping all the households with electricity, gas, everybody's gonna be happy, everybody's gonna get money. So I asked if you're helping companies, and if you're helping low-income people who live in panel houses, which are mostly single-parent mothers and pensioners, because panel houses don't have anything to do with your energy populist and your praising package. Those who have their own gas boiler room, you're not helping them at all, because you don't know how you'd calculate it. So your answer is, first of all we're preparing, we're going to put 6 billion on the renovation of the boiler rooms or these gas plants, and we're going to have promised that these suppliers won't increase the price. So I asked the suppliers if you'd discussed it with them. Nobody knows. So it's just a Facebook post again. Reconstruct the boiler rooms. And you promise you'll figure it all out until the heat season starts. Are you helping companies? Please, somebody tell us the one thing that you helped those companies. Yesterday, I will repeat, I watched the debate of our shadow minister, Mr. Havlíček, and Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr. Síkela. The arrogance that has been running on screens and which has now been here live and through you, the President of the House, who should be here for all of us, for us, for 200 Members, shows how much you are helping everyone. [[23.50 hours]] And you know what amazes me the most? I have seen the Pirate Party's discussions here in the last parliamentary term, how they want to be transparent, how they want everything to be clean, how they want all income to be transparent. And now you're gonna raise your hand to cancel the EET and put it back where it was? I understand that there are four of you here, that you have to keep some kind of agreement, but I don't think you're voting here because you believe in it, and I think you're voting only to hold on to the five-calice government, with the five-blind man who's devastated our republic and our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u212	Thank you, Madame. Another person who is enrolled in the general debate is Mrs Monika Oborná. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u213	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'll really just be very brief, I promise. I would like to comment on this press - the abolition of EET - because I believe that EET has proved successful as a project, as a project that has led to the settlement of the business environment, the removal of work black, the increase in cash-free payments, the increase in tax revenues, thanks to which taxes including VAT could be reduced in the past, which I consider to be a very important part of the benefits of EET not only for entrepreneurs. Now here the government is proposing to abolish the EET and a whole series of long-disproved myths, while repeating over and over again and adding some new ones. Just before the start of the first wave, the opposition warned against the massive cessation of the activities of restaurants and pubs. Minister Zbyněk Stanjura in Events, comments in November 2016 claimed that more than a thousand restaurants and pubs had ended before the system started. He also warned that 15-20 percent of establishments would end after the startup. Some entrepreneurs say that the government thinks they're dirty suspects, others resent the cost of it, many resent the fact that they don't want to learn how to use new technologies, and so on. And what's the reality? The reality is that the liquidation of businessmen has not been confirmed in hospitality. Other myths spread by the then opposition were not confirmed. There's no point in reminding a few of them. Even Big Brother didn't show up to watch how much beer you'd drink. Nor has data abuse been confirmed to compete. The queues in the shops, the collapse of the Internet and the registration itself were not confirmed. Even estimates of enormous costs for entrepreneurs with the introduction of an EET or the threat of winding-up fines for missing one payment were nonsense. Today we know that the EET was well prepared and worked without any major problems. It was all about scaring people. On the contrary, what was confirmed was increased tax revenues. In this context, I would like to return to the often repeated claim that the EET is based on the assumption that every businessman is a dirty suspect. It certainly is not, but the aim of the state must be to set up an equal business environment where a person who does not properly fulfil his obligations does not win. And for this reason, the EET has supported a number of business associations and entrepreneurs themselves, who have asked for its maintenance at least in voluntary form. EET helps entrepreneurs with accounting management and, last but not least, in controlling their own employees. In the explanatory memorandum, we can also read how the cancellation of the EET will save, or save the state itself entrepreneurs. With the state, well, there is no doubt about it, although the amount mentioned almost half a billion seems to be considerably excessive for the operation of a functioning system, on the part of entrepreneurs there is to be a decrease in the administrative burden, as well as in the costs associated with fulfilling the obligation to record sales. With the cancellation of the obligation to register sales, according to the petitioner, direct costs of entrepreneurs are not indicated. Theoretically, it could be a cost of updating a cashier's facility, or it could be savings. In fact, any interference with their operation is costly for switching off larger and more complex cashier solutions. For the smaller ones, there's -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u214	Madame, I will interrupt you and I would like to ask you all to remain calm. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u215	Thank you. The smaller ones, in turn, are subject to write-off of the cost of purchasing the system, even in cases where an entrepreneur would like to continue operating it on a voluntary basis. So by ignoring this demand, the state betrays entrepreneurs. The mistake is also that the government did not attempt to use the system in any other way. EET is a robust system that we just throw in the trash. This government likes to talk about how it digitizes the Czech Republic. By interfering with the EET, however, they cancel the digitization of retail and services and return them to the time of the pencil and paper. The characteristic of the proposal is that one of the savings for entrepreneurs is to cancel the internet connection. So let's welcome back at the time of the fax and the fixed connections! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u216	Thank you, too, Madame. Your speech raised one point of fact, with which Mr Radek Vondráček is registered at the moment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u217	A real comment responds to the whole debate as a whole. I think we should end in a positive way. I was out on a lunch break today, and I met the owner of the restaurant, and of course the basis of the interview was that he was apologizing to me for voting for the coalition, but besides, we were talking about EET. I asked him what he thought. And he told me, look, Mr. Vondráček, there's a gray economy in every economy. Somewhere it's a thin layer, somewhere it's a thicker layer. It's just different in every state, but it exists in every state. I'm glad you're interrupting EET. I just couldn't stand it. I just need to make some money, and in this day and age, when everything goes up, those taxes are a big item to me. In my country, it's just specific that I don't know another state where a government guarantee would simply promote where it would give a green gray economy. That's probably the first time I've logged it. But to end up positive, somebody was talking about a payout being 4.8 billion -- is an estimate. So I suggest you add it to the statistics on the umbrella and the 66 billion. Add 4.8 billion to support those innkeepers who will now be moving in the gray zone to survive somehow. Let's face it, you're gonna get your stats up. It's not the happiest way to help businessmen, but so be it. And in that misery, at least something! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u218	Thank you for holding time. Your performance brought up two more factual points... So only one, and this is Mr. Jiří Havránek, and then I have an appointment with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u219	It'll be very quick. Thank you, through Madam President, to my colleague. He was actually from the way the YES movement did it in covid. There we found many items that did not actually relate to the fight against the covid. I'm sure the Secretary of Finance remembers how we found the end of the property acquisition tax and so on. So I understand that the board comes from experience, and let's take a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u220	Thank you. Now with the priority right of the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-002-002.u221	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ambassador Havránek, through Madam Vice-President, you shot yourself in both legs! You're ODS, right? Do you belong in a club? It's ODS, okay? Sorry, through Madam Vice-President. Well, who voted with us to cancel the acquisition tax? The ODS! [[Fun and applause.]] Remember... Come on, through Madam Vice-President. There. That was a little education. I've been teaching at law school for over 20 years, so I missed it. I'm just being really brief. I've had a long speech lined up, but I think we've said enough tonight. I'm just thinking, even my colleague Radek Vondráček urged me to do this, let's see what time we are. And now I'm being very serious about this, it was to lighten up with Mr. Havránek.
