ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u1	107. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš The mandate and immunity committee has discussed the request for consent and his resolution number 15 of 18 January 2022 has been delivered to you on the bench today. I now ask the President of the mandate and immunity committee, Mrs Helena Válková, to report to us on the discussion of a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, today we have a point that will certainly attract attention not only to us but also to the public, and I think that right at the outset is my duty, especially to those of you who have not yet experienced the work of the mandate and immune committee from previous parliamentary periods, to do only a very brief education, or information about what is the mission of the mandate and immune committee, because we are like any other committee - and I, Madam Vice-President, will ask you, because it would probably still be...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I will be very brief, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the work of the mandate and immune committee as your working body is described in Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure. Whoever has it can check it out right away. There are two important things. The first is that we, as your working body, examine whether the conditions required by the Rules of Procedure are met, and there it is important to take a look at Section 12 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1, in order that the request that came to us from the prosecutor, the judge, could be discussed here, in these two cases, we will still be discussing the extradition of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's fellow Member, whether or not those conditions are met by the prosecutor's or the judge's request, or Section 45 and Section 12. And these are the frameworks which, of course, specify Article 27 of the Constitution, which guarantees us, as Members, our immunity. I'm sure that's what we're talking about here. I will now try very briefly - because I do not want to take the information that is within the competence of the rapporteur, and the rapporteur was Mr Cogan to paragraph 107, which he will present to you, because it is also his duty under the Rules of Procedure, and a resolution has been adopted for this - I only, as chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, guarantee that there are no delays and that these requests are always discussed on time. Listen to the timetable as it actually went on, what really took place, and compare it with what you heard in the media. We all know that we received a mandate in October. On 8 November 2021, the city prosecutor, Dr. Jaroslav Šaroch, asked for permission to prosecute Mr. Andrej Babiš. Right on 11 November 2021 - and now it's handy, I want to thank all members and members of the mandate and immunity committee, who have never said no, even though we were the committee that met most often after the electoral committee, we met almost in full with the exception of diseases, and I have to say that if the discipline of all committees such as the mandate and immune committee were on, I would be very pleased to have experience, so I have a comparison - i.e. on 11 November, right at our second meeting, I informed everyone about the requests of the city's attorney and we actually agreed there, we adopted a resolution, I think unanimously that I will request my letter from the State's Attorney for access to the criminal record. On 11 November, on the same afternoon, I asked Mr Šaroch for access to the criminal file. On November 23rd, I activated it, even in the media. Then it was discovered - and I want it to be said here on the microphone - that he sent a letter that he didn't send it through a data box, and the letter was lying somewhere in our magazines, materials. So, of course, it was a subtle criticism of how it didn't send it, on the other hand, he sent a letter that I received later. Never mind, we didn't miss anything anyway. On 23 November I inform at the third meeting, the committee says yes, we must have the file as soon as possible, so that we have agreed, because I have already received it by date, and from this point on, correspondence takes place only by data mailbox, on 7 December we received the file. Here I also want to thank Dr. Šaroch on the microphone because he surprised us pleasantly - we have other experiences when we had to attend the maid and study it in small rooms. Here in this case, a file of more than 90 volumes has been transferred to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies and we have carried out all necessary security. Dr. Šaroch came with us, and we had three full weeks to study the file. Again: except I suspect one, we all made use of repeated visits. Of course, some of us, the rapporteur, spent hours and hours there repeatedly. It was 90 volumes, and those who didn't have the opportunity, like me, to study them until about 45 volumes, and just go to the current ones, so of course it wasn't an easy task, and not all of them are lawyers. So we dealt with it, from December 8th to December 28th, the file was filed with us, and on December 28th, we finished our studies. On December 29th, we returned the files to the District Attorney. [[9.20 hours]] Before Christmas, December 15th, we met up and said that we had intercepted not entirely accurate and true information that the key negotiations, when we would actually vote, and when we would invite Dr Šaroch, when we would give Members the opportunity to speak, would be January 18th. So we were on January 18th. And on 17 January, I received a letter from Mr Andrej Babiš asking me to introduce the contents of the mandate and immunity committee. You know very well that our - and that is what is in this section 45 of the Rules of Procedure - negotiations are strictly private, so I will not introduce you to it. I read the letter on January 18th. On January 18, Dr Šaroch arrived and we adopted the key resolutions. It's one of them that you're going to vote on, or we should vote on tonight, so it's on your desk. It is extensive, and the rapporteur - we have agreed precisely because we will certainly talk about it, there are certainly irregularities that may not be fatal, but they can - read it on the microphone so that we have a record of what we are going to issue Mr Babiš for today or not. So it's not just written, it's sounded like a microphone. Finally, on 20 January, by my letter, as authorised by the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee, I am sending appropriate resolutions to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. At the beginning of February we are already discussing inclusion on the program. Those resolutions left in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of 20 January. So I did the math. From the time of receipt of the application, including three weeks of study of the files, including holidays, the whole case takes two months and 12 days for me to send a resolution to the Chair of the Chamber of Deputies for a mandate and an immune committee as your working body, which allows this matter to be discussed. Then there are obstructions, see the pandemic law and so on. Unfortunately, someone can say thank you, someone unfortunately, we are only getting there on March 3, 2022. But the mandate and immune committee worked very quickly, thank you to its members and members. That's a brief summary of this case. I am, of course, signed in later in the general debate, but here I wanted to be very neutral - and I am as the chair, who is responsible for the fact that the committee is working - and to introduce you to the time course and to assure you that the mandate and immune committee is working well, and most importantly, it is working quickly. We wanted to dispel possible doubts that we were delaying something here, so we did not delay and, as far as we can, there was a request - on 8 November, and already on 20 January, my letter asked for what the mandate and immune committee had adopted in most of it, and now you have on your desks. Madam Vice-President, I'm done as chairman now, and the rest is up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u5	Yes. Thank you, Madam President. I will now ask Mr Josef Cogan's committee rapporteur to take the floor. Before I give him my word, I'll read more apologies and announcements. Mr Jan Hrnčíř cancels his apology, Mrs Eva Decroix apologises for all of today's working day. Minister of Transport Martin Kupka apologizes from 9 to 13 hours for work reasons. Andrea Babišová also apologizes for this morning's medical treatment. The last apology is the apology of Mr David Pražák, who apologizes between 13 and 21 a.m. because of the electoral process in the region. I will now ask the rapporteur, Josef Cogan, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u6	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to present a report on the request for the extradition of Mr Ing. Andrej Babiš to prosecute, which I will supplement with a resolution recommended by the Chamber of Deputies plenary to adopt a mandate and an immune committee. On 20 November, the Municipal Prosecutor Jaroslav Šaroch asked the Chamber of Deputies to give the consent of the House to prosecute Mr. Andrej Babiš. The Committee therefore discussed this request and nothing else in the matter. The Chamber of Deputies and its mandate and immune committee are in this legal position under the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies: pursuant to § 12 para. The rules of procedure shall lay down the elements of the request which we are now discussing, with a demonstrational statement. However, the application must always contain the definition of the act at issue and the legal qualification envisaged. The application complies with both of these requirements. The Committee's tasks are then set out in Section 45 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) (c). Under this provision, the Committee shall determine whether the conditions for criminal prosecution of a Member are laid down in immune matters, conduct the necessary investigations, allow Members to participate personally and to express themselves and propose: The Chamber of Deputies, how to decide on this matter. The time programme here has been discussed in detail by the President, and I can only say that the criminal file has been transferred to the Chamber of Deputies at the request of the mandate and immunity committee, and the members of this committee have had it fully available within a sufficient period of time. They have made use of this deadline, so I can declare that the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee has been adopted with due knowledge of the issue. The mandate and immune committee subsequently discussed the request at its meeting on 18 January 2022. At this meeting, Mr Andrej Babiš was given the opportunity to participate personally, which he did not use. He has expressed his views on the matter by means of a written statement, he does not agree with the issue. On the basis of the ongoing negotiations and investigations, the mandate and immune committee found no finding that the conditions for prosecution were not laid down and adopted Resolution No 15 which you each have in front of you on your bench, as well as Resolution No 16. Resolution number 15 also takes into account the opinion of the Chair of the mandate and immunity committee that the request of the Chamber of Deputies should be duly recorded, I shall read in full. The only thing that is changed from the motion for a resolution against the requests of the city prosecutor is that the names of the persons against whom the prosecution has been prosecuted are listed only as initials and their other personal data are also deleted. In resolution number 15, the mandate and immunity committee proposes that the Chamber of Deputies decide on a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies according to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 4 of Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and pursuant to § 12 para. 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, agrees to prosecute the accused Member Ing. Andrej Babiš, born September 2, 1954, who was to assist in the crime of subsidy fraud pursuant to § 24 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the Code of Criminal Procedure, § 212 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the criminal code and assistance to the crime of damage to the European Union's financial interests pursuant to Article 24 (2) of the Code; Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the Code of Criminal Procedure, § 260 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 of the Criminal Code.' [[9.30 hours]] He was to commit this crime by saying, "in precisely unknown period of the second half of 2007 . Andrej Babiš, intending to fraudulently obtain a subsidy from the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia in accordance with the Regional Operational Programme NUTS II of Central Bohemia, hereinafter the ROP NUTS II of Central Bohemia, to support business infrastructure and tourism services, i.e. funds originally for the implementation of its private project, family farm Dvůr Semtín - Farm Čapí nest, later transformed into a project Multifunctional congress and training complex for the needs of the AGROFERT group in Olbramovice locality, the cadastral territory of Tomice u Votic, and thus contrary to the conditions and purpose for which the subsidy was intended, with this project of a private family farm, later changed to the project of the Multifunctional congress and training complex of the AGREOFERT Group, from the outset, was to implement IMOBA, Ing s., then with the headquarters of Roháčova 1099/83, Prague 3, which had been taking steps towards the implementation of this originally private project . Andrej Babiš, consisting of the purchase of real estate in the locality of Olbramovice, the cadastral territory of Tomice u Votic, the award of project documentation at SGL project, s. r. o., IČO 26742594, with the registered office of Liliová 249, Prague 1, and led all steps towards the issuance of the territorial decision and building permit for the purpose of implementing the project Farm Čapí nest with the knowledge that IMOBA, a. s., and other companies from the holding structure of AGROFERT HOLDING, a. . do not meet the definition of a small and medium enterprise and therefore are not eligible as beneficiaries of the said subsidy, in order to conceal the identity of their person as the real owner and effectively controlling persons of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., dal. as a person controlling the management of Zelhov company, Pelhov. Z. K., . J F and J P for the purpose of implementing ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., from the holding structure of AGROFERT HOLDING, a. s. when, on the basis of this instruction and in agreement with Ing. Andrej Babiš, . Z. K., . J F and J P. as the board of directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., the sole partner of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., knowingly for the purpose of the future concealment of the ownership structure of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., first in October 2007 decided to change the legal form of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., to a joint-stock company, although there was no economic or business reason for this step, where the only real and real reason for this step was to hide the future ownership structure of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., which was the purpose Z . Z. K. as Managing Director of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, . . o., commissioned at the expert institute, PROSCON, s. r. o., IČO 49356381, with registered office K Lochkovu 661, 154 00 Praha 5, at the time with registered office Na Zlatnici 13, 147 00 Praha 4, an expert opinion on the valuation of the assets of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. . and subsequently on 14. 11. 2007 . Z K. as Chairman of the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, . s., and J P, Chairman of the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., granted power of attorney JUDr. E H to represent in writing and to sign a decision of a single partner in the exercise of the general meeting in the form of a notary registration before JUDr. . P, notary in Prague, in which ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., as the sole partner of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., decides to change the legal form of this limited liability company to a limited limited company with a commercial company ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., which took place on 22. 11. 2007 in the office of JUDr. S P, notary in Prague, at Pyšelská 2327/2, Prague 4 - Chodov, when JUDr. E H on behalf of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., made a decision by a single partner, that the sole shareholder, i.e. ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., will become the sole shareholder with a 100% share in the capital, acquires 20 share shares on the owner with a nominal value of one share of CZK 100,000, issued in paper form as a collective charter, and further approved the statutes of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., elected the sole member of the Board of Directors of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. . . Z. K. and Supervisory Board composed of Mgr V K., JUDr. E H and B V and then Ing. As a controlling person, Andrej Babiš instructed the board of directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s. in the composition of . Z K., Ing J F and J P for the fictitious and purely purposeful sale of 20 shares of ordinary shares per owner with a nominal value of 100 000 CZK to ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. ., in advance to the acquirers, when on the basis of this instruction and in agreement with . Andrej Babiš's board of directors ZZN Pelhřimov, . ., composed of Ing Z K., . J F and J P this intention . Andrej Babiš at his meeting on 17. 11. 2007 discussed and approved the sale of 20 shares of ordinary shares per owner of the nominal value of one share of 100 000 crowns by the issuer of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., without the public offer and efforts to achieve the highest selling price, knowing that it was a special and fictitious transfer of shares in order to conceal the real identity of the controlling person, already knowing in advance that the new but only formal holders of the shares in question would be A. B., A. B. and M B, i.e. family members and long-time partner . Andrej Babiš, and that's . Z K., . J.F. and J.P. deliberately helped to fulfill Ing's intention. Andrej Babiš, directed towards the purpose and only the formal implementation of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., outside the holding structure of AGROFERT HOLDING, a. s., in order to hide the identity of Ing. [[a. B.]] [[a. H.]] Andrej Babiš as a effectively controlling person and the beneficial owner of 20 pieces of ordinary shares per owner of the nominal value of one share of 100 000 CZK to ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., so that it is not possible to establish the identity of the person exercising the actual influence on ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., and that the entity may subsequently apply unlawfully for the subsidy provided under the NUTS II ROP programme of Central Bohemia to support business infrastructure and tourism services as an SME, and subsequently on 31. 12. 2007 in agreement with . Andrej Babiš and, after obtaining written consent from AGROFERT HOLDING, a. s., closed . Z.K. and Ing J F . behalf of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., as a party to the sale of a fictitious contract for the transfer of securities to the new formal acquirers of the shares in question, which were A B, . B A M B as a party to the buyer, when the subject of this contract was the transfer of 20 pieces of paper shares to the owner of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s. under shares numbers 001-02 with a nominal value of one share of CZK 100 000 for a total price of CZK 2 386 000, that is at the price of CZK 119 300 per share, with . B as buyer number 1 bought 5 pieces of paper shares on the owner of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., under stock numbers 001-005 with a nominal value of one share of CZK 100 000 for a total price of CZK 596 500, A. B as buyer number 2 bought 5 pieces of paper shares on the owner of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., under share numbers 006-010 with the nominal value of one share of CZK 100 000 for the total price of CZK 596 500, and M. B. as buyer number 3 bought 10 shares on the owner of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s. under share numbers 01-020 with the nominal value of one share of CZK 100 000 for the total price of CZK 1 193 000, although all three buyers knew that it was a formal and fictitious transfer of shares and that no shares actually bought and did not take over any shares, and by expressing the consent and signature of a fictitious contract for the transfer of securities A. B., A. B. and M. B. deliberately helped implement the intention of . Andrej Babiš purposefully and formally create the appearance that in the case of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a. s., it is a separate small or medium-sized enterprise which is not connected with any holding structure, thereby helping to cover up the conditions imposed on applicants for grant of the subsidy and thus ensuring the creation of a seeming possibility of illegally applying for the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia in accordance with the NUTS II ROP Central Bohemia to support business infrastructure and tourism services and knowingly help hide the identity of . Andrej Babiš as a person effectively exercising influence over ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, a.s. [[9.40 hours]] Following Ing's instructions. Andrej Babiš on 17. 1. 2008 took place in the office of JUDr. . P, notary in Prague, extraordinary general meeting of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, N s., with shareholders representing Mgr at this general meeting. . K. and Mgr G K., to which the statutes of the company were changed and the name of the company's business name and registered office was changed, i.e. newly to the Čapí Nest, a. s., with the registered office of Semtín 1, Olbramovice, where he also granted consent to the location of the registered office on 17. 1. 2008 Ing Andrej Babiš as Chairman of the Board of Directors of IMOBA, a. s., owner of the property in question, and the subject of the business of Farma Čapi Nest was changed, a. ., when it was especially extended to include activities aimed at supporting ROP NUTS II Central Bohemia, i.e. business infrastructure and tourism services, to choose new members of the Board when Farma Čapi Nest, a. s., was elected to this body by . J, . J.N., ., born 26. 9. 1970, and L K., as well as the election of new members of the Supervisory Board, when the Nest, A s., was elected to this authority by Farma Čapí, was elected by . B, M H and I H, in the case of the choice of these persons to the organs of Farma Čapí nest, a. s., were members of the Ing family. Andrej Babiš, about their relatives or about persons active in various positions in AGROFERT companies, and thus the persons on whom Ing had. Andrej Babiš was undoubtedly influential and who from the beginning knew who was the actual owner of the shares in Farma Čapi Nest, a. ., A the person who exercised decisive influence on the operation of the company, and subsequently on 16. 2. 2008 completely purposefully, based on a fictitious contract for the bribery transfer of securities, M H as the buyer's party bought 1 piece of paper stock on the owner of Farma Čapí nest, a. ., with the share number A 005, when the seller's party was . B, as well as 16. 2. 2008 completely purposefully based on a fictitious contract for the transfer of M H securities as a buyer's party bought 1 piece of paper stock on the owner of Farma Čapí nest, a. s., with the share number A 006, when the seller's party was . B, A again on 16. 2. 2008 completely purposefully, based on a fictitious contract for the bribery transfer of securities, M H as the buyer's party bought 10 pieces of paper shares on the owner of Farma Čapí nest, a. s., with stock numbers A 011-020, when the seller's party was M. B., when this special purpose transfer of M H was completely consciously carried out, due to the disregard of the ownership structure of Farma Čapí nest, a. s., when the sole purpose of these fictitious transfers of shares was to further mask the identity of the real owner of Farma Čapí nest, a. s., and persons having factual influence on the operation of this company, i.e. persons . Andrej Babiš, as well as formal and purposeful bypassing the requirements of a small and medium-sized enterprise, so that persons who could be considered close to the Ing person. Andrej Babiš, did not own a share equal to or exceeding 25 per cent of the company's capital, Capi Nest, a. s., so that this company was not considered as a partner business, thereby M H, . B, . B. and M B. who knew that no such transfer of shares actually took place, deliberately and consciously helped the company Farma Čapí nest, a. s., On the outside, it acted as a small or medium-sized enterprise, which is not connected with any other economic entity, and Farma Čapí nest, a. s., could thus be illegally applied for a subsidy granted under the NUTS II ROP Central Bohemia to support business infrastructure and tourism services as a small and medium-sized enterprise, following the instructions and instructions of Ing. Andrej Babiš, a person effectively controlling the company Farma Čapí nest, a. ., which he awarded to the board of directors of this company in the composition of Ing J.N., Chairman of the Board of Directors, . J N, D, Vice-President of the Board of Directors, and L K., a member of the Board of Directors who knew that the person actually controlling and effectively exercising his influence on Farma Čapí Nest, a. ., is Ing Andrej Babiš, a project of the Multifunctional Congress Area of the Chapi Nest was prepared, together with a request for a subsidy from the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia in accordance with the NUTS II ROP Central Bohemia to support business infrastructure and tourism services and with an honest declaration signed on 28. 2. 2008 . J N, ., registered in the information system IS BENEFIT 7 on 28. 2. 2008 was at 22.28 hours and was subsequently on 29. 2. 2008 at 8.28 hours in printed version handed over to the Office of Regional Council of the Region of Cohesion Central Bohemia, IČO 75082314, with registered office of Karlovo náměstí 313, Praha 2, when the application for grant and certificate of registration of the project was confirmed by . J.N., D, on the basis of the power of attorney granted by Ing at precisely unknown time. J N, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and L K., Member of the Board of Directors of Farma Čapí Nest, a. s., when by . J N authorized to sign the application document and submit a request to the Office of the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia, to process the application for a subsidy from the programme ROP Central Bohemia, call number 4, and to negotiate on behalf of the company for the entire grant award procedure without restrictions, and thus completely consciously and intentionally helped Ing Andrej Babiš realized his intention and obtained an undue subsidy from the NUTS II ROP Central Bohemia in support of business infrastructure and tourism services, while Ing J and . J N, . N included in the application for a subsidy and in the project Multifunctional Congress Centre of the Tea Nest, which was its integral part, false and grossly distorted information and some essential facts were withheld, In particular, they reported roughly distorted economic data and parameters listed in the financial statements of the project, in the balance sheet and in the profit and loss account, false information on the loan from which the construction of the Multifunctional Congress Centre of the Capi Nest will be financed, its length, amount and maturity, they have withheld substantial data by blacking out data on the amount of the contract price agreed for the rental of real estate under the property lease contract No 01/2008 and under the real estate lease contract No 02/2008, both concluded on 27. 2. 2008 between IMOBA, a. s., as a landlord on the one hand and Farma Čapi Nest, a. s., as a tenant on the other, what they withheld from the economic data considered in the financial statements of the project and provided false information on the financing of the project Multifunctional Congress Area of the Chapi Nest, when they stated in the request for a subsidy that the project was planning to finance the decisive part of the project from bank loans, the project was really financed from private non-bank resources, in the grant application they stated that the applicant was a small enterprise, and in the statement - information on eligibility as a small or medium-sized enterprise provided false information on the fact that in the case of Farma Čapi Nest, a. s., it is an independent undertaking, signed on 22. 2. 2008 . J.N. as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Ing J N, D as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Farma Čapí Nest, a. s., knowing that the beneficial owner and person effectively controlling and implementing the decisive influence on the operation of Farma Čapí Nest, N s., is . Andrej Babiš and that Farma Čapi Nest, a. s., is therefore not eligible for the grant in question, and they also knew that Farma Čapi Nest, a. s., formed one economic entity with AGROFERT HOLDING, a. s., and deliberately withheld this essential information in the request for the subsidy, in order to fraudulently obtain a subsidy from the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia in accordance with ROP NUTS II Central Bohemia in support of business infrastructure and tourism services, to help implement the project . Andrej Babiš, originally a private project of the family farm Dvůr Semtín - Farm Čapi nest, later changed to the project of the Multifunctional Congress and Training Complex AGROFERT. [[9.50 hours]] Based on these false data, grossly distorted economic parameters of the project and the silence of the essential facts, following the assessment of the staff of the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region Office of Central Bohemia, the project was recommended by the Multifunctional Congress Centre of Čapí Hnízdo for approval of the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region Committee of Central Bohemia, which at its 24th meeting on 20. 8. 2008 adopted Resolution No 02-24/2008/VRRSČ, in which he approved for funding under point I, among others, the project Multifunctional Congress Centre Čapi Hnízdo, on the basis of which a contract was signed between the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia, IČO 750 82 314, with the registered office of Zborovská 11, Prague 5, as a provider, and the company Čapi Nest, as a beneficiary, signed as the recipient, the Agreement for the granting of the subsidy No. S/000/RRSC/2008, containing the conditions and an honourable declaration of the beneficiary of the subsidy, which was annexed to the Declaration - information on eligibility, as a small or medium enterprise, when they signed the contract on 15. 10. 2008 . J.N., as Chairman of the Board of Directors, and . J N, ., as Vice-President of the Board of Directors of Farma Čapi Nest, a. s., and subsequently on 22. 10. 2008 Ing signed this contract. P B, Chairman of the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia, on the basis of which Čapi Nest was a farm, a. s., by the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia was granted a subsidy of a maximum amount of CZK 50 000 000, where the proportion of funds from the European Regional Development Fund amounted to CZK 42 500 000, the share of funds from the state budget of the Czech Republic was CZK 3,750 000 and the share of funds from the budget of the Central Bohemia Region was CZK 3,750 000, while in the Treaty on the granting of the subsidy No. S/00500/RRSC/2008 Ing J.N., as Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Ing J N, as Vice-President of the Board of Directors, on behalf of Farma Čapi Nest, a. s., as beneficiary of the subsidy, honestly stated that all the information given in connection with the conclusion of the contract, i.e. the project, to their person, including the financial and property situation, was true and complete, when part of the contract was also Declaration - information on eligibility, as a small or medium-sized enterprise, knowing that the said information was false and does not correspond in fact to the actual situation, and when, without undue delay, the provider of the subsidy was given written information in this contract, if any fact had been changed, and then the funds were gradually drawn into the bank account of Farma Čapi Nesto, N ., no. the account of 672503209/8150, maintained at HSBC Bank plc - branch of Prague, IČO 659 97 212, with its registered office at Florence 2161, Prague 1, in the given time with the registered office of MILLENIUM PLAZA, V Celnici 10, Prague 1, when, upon request for payment No. 1 on 6. 11. On behalf of Farma Čapi Nest, a. ., signed and subsequently filed an Ing at the Regional Council Office of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia. J.N., D, were under the transfer order of 26. 11. 2009 from the bank account of the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia no. account 2818842/0800 held at Česká spořitelna, a. s., transferred funds of CZK 26 606 818,73 to account No. [[hereinafter referred to as HSBC Bank]] 672503209/8150 to Farma Capi Nest, a. s., led by HSBC Bank, credited on 27. 11. In addition, on the basis of a request for payment No 2009 2 of 14. 12. On behalf of Farma Čapi Nest, N ., signed and subsequently filed an Ing at the Regional Council Office of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia. J.N., D, were under the transfer order of 17. 12. 2009 from the bank account of the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia no. account 2818842/0800 held at Česká spořitelna, a. s., transferred funds of CZK 13 393 181,27 to account No. 672503209/8150 to Farma Capi Nest, a. s., led by HSBC Bank, credited on 18. 12. 2009 and on the basis of a request for payment No. 3 of 27 7. On behalf of Farma Čapi Nest, a. s., signed and subsequently filed an Ing at the Office of Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia. J.N., ., were under the transfer order on 20. 8. 2009 from the bank account of the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region of Central Bohemia no. account 2818842/0800, held at Česká spořitelna, a. s., transferred funds of CZK 9 9 997 443,36 to account No. 672503209/8150 to Farma Capi Nest, a. ., led by HSBC Bank, credited on 23. 8. 2010 by Ing J.N. and . J N, ., from above described, fully conscious and intentional actions, implemented and completed the intention of . Andrej Babiš obtained undue funding in the form of a subsidy from ROP NUTS 2 Central Bohemia in support of business infrastructure and tourism services, when they reported false and grossly distorted data in the request for grant, they also withheld substantial data from Ing's instigation. Andrej Babiš, who completely consciously and with perfect knowledge of all the facts of the negotiations and the individual steps of the other accused towards unauthorized obtaining the subsidy, drove and coordinated, taking . Z K., J J.F., P, L.K., A B, . B, M B and M H by their conscious and intentional infringement consisting of the purposeful concealment of the identity of the effectively controlling person and the beneficial owner of 20 shares of shares of the owner with the nominal value of one share of CZK 100,000 to ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov a. s., later renamed to Farma Čapí nest, a. ., helped implement the intention of Ing Andrej Babiš, when the removal of obstacles created the appearance that in the case of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov J ., later renamed Farma Čapí nest, . s., it was a small or medium-sized enterprise eligible for the grant in question and thus made it possible and facilitated another commission of the crime, and by this act the accusations to the above extent caused damage to the organization Regional Council of the Region of Cohesion Central Bohemia in the amount of CZK 49 997 443,36." This deed was indicted by . Andrej Babiš qualified as a particularly serious crime of subsidy fraud pursuant to § 212 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (a) the criminal code in the form of participation pursuant to § 24 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Criminal Code and a particularly serious crime of damage to the European Union's financial interests pursuant to § 260 para. 1.5 of the Criminal Code committed in the form of participation pursuant to § 24 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Criminal Code. In the next investigation, Ing was charged. Andrej Babiš informed the police department that the action for which he is prosecuted will continue to be classified as aid to the crime of subsidy fraud under § 24 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the Code of Criminal Procedure, § 212 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (a) the Criminal Code and assistance to the crime of damage to the European Union's financial interests pursuant to Article 24 (2) of the Code; Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the Code of Criminal Procedure, § 260 para. 1, 5 of the Criminal Code.'; [[10.00 hours]] So many acts described by prosecutor Jaroslav Šaroch. This request, which is why it is in the motion for a resolution, was dealt with by the mandate and immune committee. Our task is not to deal with this matter factually, but we have only examined whether the conditions for prosecution are laid down. The rest, of course, is a matter for law enforcement authorities. This was resolution number 15 and I would now like to introduce you to the relevant part of resolution number 16. In this resolution, the mandate and immunity committee agreed under point I that it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš, born 2 September 1954. That would allow me to end a rather long intelligence report for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening a general debate in which I have the following Members enrolled: Mrs Válková, Mr Faltýnek, Mr Svoboda, Růžička and Mrs Vondráček. And Prime Minister Andrej Babiš reports with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Madam President, honourable Members. I watched the plenary, and nobody listened to the rapporteur, and even if he listened to him, no one would understand him, because there is no understanding of the load of lies, nonsense and nonsense. I have a speech on two and a half pages, so maybe you won't listen to me either, but the point here is to make a statement. So, for the third time, we've been meeting here in connection with my extradition to prosecute in a pseudo-cause known as the stork's nest. I'm not going to talk about the legal side of the matter, the statements processed by my attorney, you've all been e-mailed. It is also not true, as the rapporteur said, that I would resist extradition. Even after four and a half years since I started my prosecution, I insist that the whole The stork's nest is unprecedented, manipulated, artificially invented, politically motivated, carefully planned and precisely timed pseudocase. Pseudocause with one single goal: to push me out of politics because I didn't get dragged into the business of traditional parties and I constantly criticize them for it. For this reason, in 2016, i.e. two and a half years after I became Minister of Finance, the ČSSD came up with the TOP 09 amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests. Two and a half years didn't bother them until the Prime Minister and I said one thing about the government that I don't want to quote here, then they understood. And it was an amendment that was tailored to me and voted for by all the traditional political parties, which is why it is called lex Babiš, who today's coalition out of fear of me, wants to tighten it up, and even extend it to the President of the Republic, because everyone is saying that I will run. So here we'll have Lex Babish number two, laws against Babiš. And besides Lex Babiš, there were other pseudo-causes. There was a nonsensical accusation about working with StB when I, in fact, won all three courts in Slovakia, including the Supreme Court, and that decision came to legal power. And I'm not gonna talk about who did it because I don't have the evidence. A few weeks before the election, again. Or remember the Shuman case, which took place in 2017 and was an illegal news game aimed at influencing the results of free democratic elections. And then the koruna bonds came up and Sobotka kicked me out of the government, even though Kalousek invented them, and Sobotka himself voted in favour of those bonds as an MP. But then the same scenario, 2017 as 2021, lying things, prosecuting again, and nonsense again. And when neither the alleged conflict of interest, nor the case of the StB, nor the koruna bonds with the preferences of the ANO movement moved significantly, and since they couldn't dig up anything at all from the time I was in politics, they came up with the Capi Nest, or with 50 million subsidies from 2007, says the rapporteur, I have written here 2008. So 2007, 15 years! Unbelievable, 15 years. And it is a subsidy approved by MEPs in the Central Bohemia region who used to sit or are now even sitting behind five-calices in the House. Everything was done with the participation and sanctification of then Mr. Governor Bendl, Mrs. Langšádlová and finally the Ministry of Finance checked it under the direction of Mr. Kalousek, and everything was fine. All conditions for granting the subsidy were met and then repeatedly checked. No audit, not even nine, rapporteur, nine checks! they have never found that the subsidy was drawn in breach of the conditions of the European Union. The farm stands, it is open to the general public. It employs 90 people on average and paid CZK 301 540 000 for its existence at wage costs and paid 91 580 000 for social and health insurance. And, of course, the subsidy was refunded! So I don't know what the rapporteur is talking about. And I must inform you that today the farm will accommodate eight Ukrainian refugees and another thirty beds are ready. I recommend visiting if you haven't been there yet. According to the charges, it was supposed to be a criminal conspiracy where 11 people were prosecuted, and I was supposed to organize and run the group. Absurd! They didn't even blame my family. The lies that have been told here are unbelievable, and it's a good thing you didn't listen to it, because no one reasonable can understand it. But the charges gradually began to fall. First at seven, then all the charges of the D.A. stopped in accordance with the law. But then the Attorney General intervened as a loyal member of the P.O.P.D. cartel, and if you don't know who he is, then that's the gentleman the Justice Minister for the ODS first - now I don't know who he is for the TOP - went to show the Pilsen godfather if he agrees! And Mr. Attorney General has extended the prosecution. So it was stopped once, but of course it needs to be still in space, and I have no doubt that Czech TV will be broadcasting it all day. So he stopped it and accused me and the manager so it wouldn't be so obvious. So today, there were two people left from an 11-member criminal group, and I, who was originally supposed to organize and manage it, did not, according to the findings of the investigating police and prosecutors, organise anything or drive anything. I don't understand. The nonsense of the prosecution is underlined by the fact that the 50-million-dollar subsidy was repaid - so I do not know what damage was caused to whom, Mr rapporteur - even though the company fulfilled all the conditions and thus was entitled to it. And I put $52 million in charity to prove it wasn't really about the money. So we can sum it up: 50 million subsidies have been paid back, no damage has been done to anyone, the farm has put nearly 400 million in public budgets, employs 90 people, and I have given 52 million to charity. Because it's all ridiculous! [[10.10 hours]] These are all the reasons why I insist that this is a politically motivated pseudocase, timed for August 2017, a few weeks before the House elections. It was so timed that everything was still in time. Because of her, I was released a month before the elections by Members to prosecute, I am talking about 2017 because they hoped it would affect elections, such as the Kubice report in the past or last year's Pandora Papers. That was still great, but they even organized it from abroad because from abroad they want to tell us to our citizens who will be here in the House and who will be in government. There was a global term for Mrs. Holcová on October 2nd. And the fact that the Financial Analysis Unit then found that it was okay, but they didn't have time to sit down before the election - of course, because it turned out to be a lie again. So, of course, all of these things are pointless. And Pandora Papers? Who's heard of it? Where are the lists? There's still a gentleman on Twitter with Panama Papers. Now he's complaining that I supposedly had some conditions for an interview and all that nonsense. So, in the end, the October elections to the House of Commons in 2017 clearly won, but still, the pseudocase of the Tea Nest served all the traditional political parties as an excuse why they can't go into government with Babiš and our movements. Unfortunately, we had nothing left but to set up a minority government with the ČSSD, which was based on support from the KSČM, which, of course, traditional politicians blamed us for over and over again. So what do I say in conclusion? Pseudokauza The stork nest is a completely absurd, absurd and purposeful construct, several times in a row, in order to push me out of politics and until then keep it in media space. It's about trying to beat me, not with an honest fight in the election, but with a low-level and purposeful prosecution. It is being maintained in media space today in case I decide to run for president. If I hadn't joined politics, no one would have ever heard of the Hawk's čapí, ever. Although this is a purposeful prosecution, in fact, I do not resist extradition, for I can say with a clear conscience that I have never done anything criminal, and so it is in this case. However, I would like to mention one more thing: bear in mind that your vote today can have far-reaching effects on the work of the Chamber of Deputies. A request for my extradition is a sort of bingo check that doesn't describe what criminal activity I'm about to be issued for. By law, however, the description of the act for which I am to be issued must be given, otherwise, in conjunction with the extradition of persons protected by immunity, the Institute of Parliament's mandate becomes completely unnecessary and you resign to the legal process of extradition. In the event of your vote to promote such a procedure, you will create a precedent. In such a case, the immunity of the legislator ceases to make sense, and Members will have to accept that they too may be victims of unjustified and totally incorrect interference in the performance of their mandate through special criminal prosecutions. And I'm sure we know how much hundreds of millions of dollars they pay to people who have been prosecuted and have done nothing. I'm not here to talk about Mrs Parkanová and other people, our MP Růžička and so on. So today, you're not just deciding about me, but about yourself, about all the legislators who come after you. The presumption of guilt will be automatic and there will be no defense against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u9	Thank you, Mr President, and now the President of the Committee Helena Válková is enrolled in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u10	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to point out that I will now act not as the chair of the mandate and immunity committee, which must be very strict, I would say neutral and, in view of the lack of publicity, the negotiation of the mandate and immune committee must not say anything beyond what can be said on the microphone. I will now act as a Member, and especially as a lawyer, a lawyer who just wants to draw your attention, before we raise our hand to or against Mr Andrej Babiš's extradition, to some of the very important facts that, in my legal opinion, I dare say, maybe I can - maybe in a rather than too long time, we will recall again in this Chamber of Deputies. And I would speak this way, even if I were to speak of any Member, so now take it that it really concerns all of us, because Section 12, which I would like to quote, and unlike the rapporteur, who here - I warn - did not say his legal or factual opinion, he merely read the literal wording of the request made by Mr. Attorney Šaroch. Thus, what you have heard all this time and what you may have been bored with, you disagreed, wondered or agreed, so it was not the opinion of the mandate and immune committee presented by the rapporteur, but that was the request, the content was a description of the act which describes Section 12 of our Rules of Procedure about this or this condition: "The request of the competent authority to express the consent of the House to prosecute a Member, as well as the announcement of the detention of a Member in the commission of a crime, or immediately thereafter, must contain it" - and now it must, that is, mandatory, it simply has to, if we do not have it there, so obviously we will not sit here at all, because the mandate and immune committee will say: It has not been there, we have nothing to discuss - or must include in particular, the request has to contain more, the deed that is involved. A description of this fact must be part of the request. And you've heard the description here, the description is what we're going to vote on. The description is what the prosecutor and the judge may then decide, because the one in question is an MP and he enjoys immunity, and we either get rid of the immunity, or we don't just get rid of it, and only in relation to the deed you've heard described here. And the deed you've heard described, I think we've all heard it, and as I say, it wasn't easy to endure it for all sorts of reasons, it was about organization, organizing certain activities, activities, acts that were then classified as a particularly serious crime under all those provisions in the form of organizing. Section 24 of the Criminal Code, which is very brief, says about participation - because there are different forms of how I can commit a crime - as the perpetrator himself, the accomplice, the participant. Mr Babiš, as the deed is described here, should have been committed by deliberately committing a crime by designing or directing it as an organizer - Section 24 para. Article 4 (1) (a) a). You've heard very much how the state's attorney, or the police, thought it was organized. You also heard that when you organized, you had to organize someone, and there really were originally eleven people that he organized or should have organized. And the negotiations, as he organized them, are very detailed in the request for extradition. We know that the prosecution was stopped first by four persons - 2018 - and then 2019 by the remaining seven persons. [[Five out of seven?]] So what you heard there was stopped in nine cases from the original 11 persons. We all know that at the end of 2019, as has been said here - and now there is an interesting new aspect, with which I have not yet met in my practice and the theory, which is long enough, - the resolution in question was annulled by Mr. Attorney General, but left it in relation to Mr. Engineer Babiš and I will call it engineer N And with the others, he left the stop, or eleven of the original great group, and then seven of them remained two. [[10.20 hours]] And I, when I first had that application in my hand as a lawyer, a criminal lawyer, I thought, "I'm curious how qualified it will be, and then I read it repeatedly, and there's not a word about what happened just before the investigation ended and the presentation of the file to the prosecutor, namely that it was the most serious form of participation under § 24 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) requalified to assist, which, of course, represents the least serious form of participation. So Mr Babiš and his defense could applaud and say, "Thank God for that, at least this, even though we reject it - as we have heard. And I see it strictly now, regardless of whether it's Babiš, Válková as the defense attorney. However - and now it will come, however - why don't I raise my hand here for Mr Babiš's extradition: there is one sentence missing from this request by Dr. Šaroch's Attorney General to describe to me what this aid is supposed to be. So, well, quite rightly from the point of view - I will now look away from all the relevant matters, from the facts - that should really be assessed by the law enforcement authorities, which are paid for, funded and we will not interfere with their crafts, however, if, on the basis of this request from Mr Andrej Babiš, we issue him only for the conduct he describes in my legal opinion, and, of course, he must prove himself in court if he is charged with organizing criminal activities. There's no mention of help, no words, no sentence. If there's been a mistake or if - I don't know what other reason - the one who prepared the request didn't have time to deal with it, so be it, of course it's up to him. If Mr Andrej Babiš is issued, in such a case, we will, of course, be as Members to whom we may all be concerned, monitor closely whether to stop the prosecution, return the police body to the preliminary hearing of the prosecution, in the course of the prosecution's proceedings it will be for the deed that has been read here on a microphone which has been described and qualified basically earlier as an organisation and organizing, or whether it is a deed that will be different, otherwise defined in such a way as to respond and be consistent with the current legal qualifications of the mildest forms of participation in the crime. If that were the case, all the actions that would have been done to stop the prosecution would have been void, because today the Chamber of Deputies will grant consent to the extradition or extradition only for the actions that we have heard here and which are still described in the application as an ingenious, particularly serious offence in the form of organizing individual acts. So when I took this little field trip, I'm sure I'll give it to you after -- once it's finally stopped or decided otherwise, convicted, unconvicted -- to the students and I'll say, you know, as an example of immunity, this example can serve, because we've received an application that doesn't fit the legal qualifications described by the deed. In order to be completely objective, it is not required here that the legal qualification, here in this provision § 12 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It says here: It must include, in particular, the definition of the deed - it must be there - which is the case, we will issue it for this negotiation or we will not issue it today, and its anticipated legal qualification. It means that the act can, of course, still be requalified by the prosecutor in such a way that, according to his best knowledge and conscience, the description of the act for which we, Mr Babiš, will now issue him or not, corresponds to his legal qualifications. This is not the case yet - in my legal opinion. And, of course, it's going to be very interesting from a legal point of view, and I don't dare guess how it's gonna end up, and this case is definitely interesting. I apologise to Mr Babiš, through the President, from a legal point of view, it is a very messy case precisely by saying to Mr Supreme Prosecutor that it did not occur at all that when he stops at all others and leaves at two, he gets into such a legal loop because he falls as part of the evidence of the deed which was originally qualified as organizing and described as organizing. I'm not sure, I don't understand. So either I would stop everything, but thank God I'm not the Attorney General, I'd leave it stopped, or I'd probably take a different step, but that's not my place to judge. I'm protected here, I hope when I speak into the microphone, indemnity, so I say openly that it was a very bold move that could have huge criminal consequences, procedural consequences. I don't envy Mr. State's Attorney Šaroch at all, but he's dealt with it by basically copying the extradition application he once had, and there's one sentence about it being helpful when I simplify it a lot. So there's no way I can see the help there, and that's why I think you should all think about it. We can happen - and the last thing I would like to say to you here - this: it can actually happen to us that the state's attorney will proceed according to what we will ultimately judge and decide and maybe give up Mr Babiš, and then risk that the criminal court logically comes to the conclusion that it doesn't correspond to the legal qualifications, it falls, or it will not proceed accordingly and adapt the description of the act to the legal qualification, and then I almost want to bet with any of you that it has to submit a new extradition request, basically for the fourth or fifth time, because it will have to describe the negotiations otherwise, which, of course, can always be a prosecutor, but I am a little surprised. I'm sure it doesn't increase the reputation of criminal justice, I have strong doubts, and I'm going to expect the next step of the prosecutor's office with suspense. On the other hand, on his defense, we must say: he is overseeing the police, but he is dependent on it in a number of ways, so the police did his job and he dealt with it this way. I'm ending my speech by not raising my hand for extradition, because the request, in my opinion, has such a big contradiction in itself that I can't do it. However, I understand all those who have a different legal opinion, and I am curious to see how our criminal justice will deal with the outcome of today's negotiations in the event that Mr Babiš is issued. And by that I don't just mean the state's attorney, that is, in case it goes to trial, I mean the criminal court, but I believe and I have always believed that the court is not only independent, but it is the most competent body within the judicial system, so sometimes it takes a long time, but I believe that even in this case, which has such indisputable political features, it will proceed independently, competently, unbiasedly, and therefore convincingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u11	I also thank you, Madame, and now Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek is in the debate, Mr Pavel Svoboda will be prepared. And before I give the floor to Mr Faltýnek, I will read the apologies. For reasons of work today, Mrs Marie Jílková apologizes from 14.30 to 18 pm, as well as Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová between 14.30 and 21 pm, until the end of the day, for family reasons. I shall give the floor to Mr Faltýnek, and we shall also exchange here with the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. This sentence came out of my mouth on 6 September 2017 and I would like to take the liberty of reading my speech to my colleagues who were not there on 6 September 2017 when we discussed the issue of Mr Babiš and myself: "So, once again, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. I will not be as long as our President." The current drawer - I'm gonna be longer than the chairman today. "I will be considerably more brief, however, before I begin my speech, which I prepared last night, I would have one request, especially on Czech Television, to keep it objectively informed in my reports and information, if possible. I have one personal experience from last week, on the day he met the mandate and immune committee, and I went there to defend myself or to a debate, so the whole day on Czech TV ran information, at least three to five times down on the bar, that Jaroslav Faltýnek was a member of the organs of Farma Čapí nest. I've said this several times, and I've asked the editors to look into the business register. I've never really sat in this company's organs. But that's not the point. I only ask this form to inform our public Czech television at least once in a while objectively. Now, about that particular thing. In fact, I had the first chance to get acquainted with the content of the police request last week on Tuesday, when I was there with my attorney, and there I actually read the story for the first time - although it was already offered to me by Czech TV reporters about fourteen days ago - so I read there a story that I am supposed to be one of the main actors. But this story did not happen to me personally, and I found only some pieces of my real experiences and experiences back then. In my opinion, it is a compilation of events that took place ten years ago, but they were going a little differently. I didn't remember a lot of those things, of course, after ten years, but when I read the application, I gradually remembered everything. So, ladies and gentlemen, after studying the police request and after consulting my colleagues, I have concluded that both President Andrej Babiš and I and with us and the whole ANO movement are facing an unprecedented attempt to influence parliamentary elections with the help of police authorities. And now I'll tell you what makes me think that. First, the request for extradition in a case more than ten years old was delivered to the House just seven weeks before the forthcoming elections, moreover, it was delivered on the very last day when the House was still able to initiate the extradition process at all. Does that seem like a coincidence to you? Especially in a situation where there are significant doubts as to whether there are real reasons for submitting an application at that time? Secondly - and I apologize that I may repeat myself in what President Babiš said, but secondly - the investigation was commissioned by a police officer with whom reasonable doubts were expressed by the Supreme Court in Prague about its influentialness, professionalism and impartiality. In the past, this police officer has been associated with unfair practices against which we, as an YES movement, have fought and strongly defined ourselves throughout our political activities. Is that also a coincidence?" I'm just reminding you that we're still in September 6, 2017. "Three, the entire request for our extradition is full of factual errors, inaccuracies, unsubstantiated fables, and - I apologize for the expression - of complete nonsense. I'm talking about a request that preceded a year and a half of police investigations. As an example for everyone, the police department blames us for selling the shares of a private company without a public tender. If you look at today's request after five years or what it is, it's there again. It's in there again! But I'll get to it. This nonsense suggests the incompetence of a police officer who confuses the obligations of a public and private company. Anyone who's ever owned a pub on a square knows well that he doesn't have to hold a tender when selling his own property. The police commissioner, who is signed under the request, didn't even take the job of verifying the facts contained in the request in publicly available sources. Is that a coincidence, too? And I, when I was interrogated a year ago or given an explanation to the police, the main question that was repeated by the Commissioner several times was why we did not sell the shares in a public tender. And I tried to explain to him in vain several times that he got it wrong, that it was a private company. But we sold the shares, and I'll get to that, at the price of an expert opinion. In his request, Commissioner Nevtípil also writes that the shares of ZZN AGRO were not taken over and paid for by the new owners, which is another lie. The new stockholders have taken over, paid for them, and the police commissioner has, of course, evidence that he has withheld from the mandate and immune committee" - we are still in September 2017 - "and he doesn't even mention them in the application. In so doing, the transfer protocol on the physical transfer of shares and bank statements on the payment of the purchase price were transmitted by the police." In this context, I remember the question of my colleague Roman Sklenák, who is now absent, on the mandate committee, who asked me if I was physically present at the share transfer. It wasn't, for me it ended with the board's decision, which I was a member, and signing the purchase agreement. "The whole request is" - and it's a good thing that it's a public document today - "pimpled expressions such as fictional, purposeful, tutorial and so on." Nothing has changed until today. It's described again in that request in such a senseless way. "However, there is no evidence of anything fictitious, purposeful or tutorialable in the application or in the file material. It is not so clear what the fiction of the transaction should consist of, let alone what evidence the police authority considers it to be. And that's a coincidence, too?" [[10.40 hours]] The entire request for our release was sewn at the last minute by a hot needle with the awareness of the approaching elections and the approaching end of this House's mandate. Otherwise, I cannot explain that Commissioner Nevtípil is asking for my extradition for agreeing on 17 November 2007 to transfer shares that did not exist on this day. The Commissioner would have found that at that time ZZN AGRO was still a limited liability company, which, as the rural pub operator knows, does not have any shares or can have any shares. Is that another coincidence? According to the information provided by the mandate and immune committee, an important evidence to move the police investigation to the next stage is some kind of expert opinion. However, the police authorities did not introduce members of the mandate and immunity committee who had the opportunity to consult the file. Is that another coincidence? To date, the competent control authority of the European Union has not assessed whether or not there has been an error in the case of the Stork Nest. However, the Commissioner already knows that there has been an error and even that this error is a deliberate crime. That's another coincidence. For the eighth time, I also had doubts about the course of the session of the mandate and immunity committee, where I was, therefore, the first time and was able to take part in the meeting. The text of the motion for a resolution was already prepared before its own discussion, physically lying on the table before the members of the committee. The discussion and discussion of the police request itself, in my opinion, were only formal, even though I tried to prove that the police deliberately conceal the evidence from the Chamber of Deputies - the evidence that is tearing down the story of the Capitol's nest. However, nothing has changed about the text of the resolution we have prepared on our table. Not a word. And, you know, a comment from fellow Huml, who was a member of the mandate committee at the time that, in my case, the whole thing seems to be bent, shows that we are far from alone, who seems to find that the whole thing is not a complete coincidence. I apologize to my colleague Huml, but it just sounded like that. I was very amused about the committee, and at that moment, I felt like I wasn't all alone in it. After this listing, colleagues, allow me to recapitulate what I was supposed to actually commit, according to the Nevtípil. As stated in his request to the House, I, along with my colleagues from the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, should have sold an unnecessary subsidiary without a tender to the children of Mr Babiš and his wife. With this step, we should have covered up Mr. Babiš's true identity. Doesn't that seem absurd to you? At least the lawyers in this House? To hide Mr. Babiš's true identity by selling it to his children and his wife? And to sign a dedicated and fictitious contract - that's another offence - a dedicated and fictitious contract for the sale of shares, and the acquirers didn't take over these shares and didn't even pay them. I'm asking again: Is it a crime to sell an unnecessary company at a price according to an expert's opinion and earn 20 percent on it? Yes, that's the purpose of business, to generate profit. And it can sometimes be done, Commissioner, even without a tender. And what's a fictional contract? Is it a contract that exists, signed by both parties, there are proofs of payment of the purchase price and a transfer protocol for the takeover of shares to new acquirers? These documents are all available to the police. So again, what's fictional about this contract? Plus, my role, my personal role in this story ends at the end of 2007. I was not interested in what was further sold to the company, as was the case with the sale of other unnecessary companies within the Agrofert Group, which I sold tens or participated in the sale of. The goal was always logically and to make such an operation, which I think is normal in business. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also familiar with the efforts of some of you to counter the timing of the request received. I know the argument that there are elections every year, and the police couldn't do it at all. But let's face it, we're standing a few weeks ahead of the national elections that take place once every four years to decide on our country's future direction, and that's certainly not a coincidence. I can't shake the impression that negotiating our extradition for criminal prosecution is meant to serve one purpose, and that is damage to our media image. Fair political competition, in my opinion, has been replaced by a media police game in which my current management career and my professional and personal honor are questioned. And I dare say that this is the last desperate attempt to reverse the democratically ongoing electoral process in which the leaders of the political party or the movement whose preferences have so far indicated possible success. One of the key objectives of our movement, which has been set and enforced in fact for the entire four-year term, was the fight against corruption, and it is precisely the request for my person's extradition - at least that is how I see it - to prosecute is the result of this fight. Although I have been active in politics or in high politics, because I have long worked in municipal policy, I have worked in a commercial sphere where mistakes and personal failures are not pardoned, and you have personal responsibility for each decision. And if, in a similar way as in my case, they were purposefully taken out of the context of any action or actions of certain persons and artificially linked to the actions of other persons, the ad absurdum can be criminalized by any one of us. I know that the House is not a court and cannot judge the guilt or innocence of any of us here, but it frightens me that in the House, there is no willingness to perceive specific lies and falsehoods in the request for the extradition of Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of my performance is not to ask or beg you not to publish me or to publish us because we are not afraid of it. We didn't do anything wrong, and the truth will eventually come out. I am convinced that the entire investigation into the grant to the Farm of Capi Nest is, as I have said here many times, a police fable, and it would never have happened if Andrej Babiš and I weren't in politics. And I'm not gonna be part of this dirty game by recommending or asking you to vote. Today's vote will actually be the biggest test of all of us and with us Czech democracy. My previous speakers and I - or my previous speaker, but I'm sure there will be others - have shown that the so-called case of the Farm The Cape Nest and the request for our extradition are a political cause, and we all, as we stand here, have sat down, heard before the election, for months, that the police will prosecute us just before the election. It's been a public secret for months to be charged, Mr. Babiš and I. It is therefore up to you and your conscience to vote today. Andrej Babiš and I can't lose today in my opinion. If you turn us in, it'll be our moral victory. If you don't release us, it'll be our moral satisfaction. Finally, I would like to tell you that I myself will vote in favour of my extradition. Because I am life's optimist, and I believe I live in a state of law. I believe in the professionalism of prosecutors and the independence of the court. We didn't do anything wrong, let alone illegal, and the truth finally, I think it will prevail and we will clear our name. Unfortunately, in our case and to the detriment of Czech democracy after the elections, because nothing will happen to the elections. But the purpose of this political conspiracy to damage our movement has been fulfilled, but that is unfortunately our Czech policy so far. Thank you for your attention." So much... no, no, no, friends, don't clap yet, we're halfway there. [[Fun in the hall.]] [[10.50 hours]] That was September 6th, 2017. On this day, the House first released us, after the October 2017 elections we regained immunity and the police asked for our release, which took place on 19 January 2018. Then what happened next? Wonder for the world, 30. On April 4, 30, 2018, the prosecutor decided in my case to repeal the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution for which I was twice issued by the House. And you know why? Because he found that this decision was unjustified. Unwarranted! Bottom line, my prosecution, which affected the political situation in this country, had no criminal grounds. There was no criminal reason! It served only to fight politically. I am not referring to the fact that a similar view of the prosecutor was taken at the same time by three other politically uninhibited co-conspirators. I'm not talking about what kind of media hell these people have been through. I stress that since 30 April 2018, no one has ever dealt with the participation of the four of us in this case again. The investigation is over, forget it. I could end up in this time recap, but I'm not going to pretend that I'm still interested in this case, which I think you all understand, so I'm going to continue briefly. There were seven of them left out of a story about 11 robbers. For the next year and a half, the media kept us informed about how the prosecution of the Prime Minister and his family continues. Sometimes, the case was theatrically theorized by kidnapping. And then came another turning point. 2. 9. 2019 has notified the prosecutor that he has stopped the prosecution of all persons in the case of the Capi Nest, decision of 30 August 2019. Of course, he immediately found that he was not just a media handler, as he changed his mind, Mr. Attorney General. What about the fact that the police's fundamental reservations about the work have already been applied by the supervising state prosecutor for 30 years? 4. 2018, i.e. a year and a half in advance, in the framework of the decision on complaints against the resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecution, where it pointed out the lack of evidence, I point out, after more than two years of intensive criminal proceedings, I mean from 5 January 2016, when the criminal proceedings were initiated and the resulting possibility of stopping the prosecution of all persons, including Andrej Babiš. Unfortunately, that didn't fit in the media store, so the hysterical views of the cameras were fixed towards the state's attorney-general, we all remember. He then fulfilled his historical role, and by his - I am not afraid to say - political decision, the trump ace of political struggle returned to the table again and allowed this pseudo-cause to survive and influence other elections. And here I would strongly remind myself of the sayings of the time: it is almost two years before the elections, so the police have enough time to deal with this case, and so on and so on and so on. And what happened again? From a story about 11 or 7 robbers, we have an episode about two people, where, of course, Andrej Babiš can't be missed because we're doing it for him. And you're not gonna believe it. It's not gonna make it back to the election. On the contrary, before the elections it was added to the boiler again, yes, kidnapping is a media proven thing, especially before the elections, because there is no talk of it anymore, and media dramaturgists and event producers have basically disappeared. And so this travesty really affected our next election. So much time-clear summation, based on my personal experience with this case. And what is the conclusion? We are actually deciding for the third time on the extradition of Mr Andrej Babiš. Since eleven people were originally prosecuted in this case, four of them were 30. 4. 2018 the prosecution has been definitively annulled and for another five 30. 8. 2019 permanently stopped, we only have two persons left. And I'm asking all of us here, how is it that in the extradition request today, the story of 11 people is re-described just as it was at the beginning of 2017? Colleagues, colleagues, is there anything weird about this? Don't you think it's weird that you're essentially deciding about me again? Even about me, because even though by the initials of F, I have been mentioned x-times in this text, even though I have been finally cleared for almost four years, and my prosecution, according to the state's attorney, has been unjustified. I didn't believe that I read the nonsense that I read here five years ago: "And on the basis of that instruction and in agreement with Babiš, the board of directors of Z.K., J, P discussed this intention again, approved it, without public offer and efforts to achieve the highest possible selling price, knowing that it was a purposeful and fictitious transfer of shares in order to conceal the true identity of the effectively controlling person." I feel like I'm in a madhouse, like I'm in a madhouse. So I'm just making one conclusion out of this. In this case, it has never been and could not have been a crime, which the law enforcement authorities have already admitted in nine cases. From the beginning to today, this is not a criminal case, but a political one. Political, on order. And it's up to us, yours, dear colleagues, colleagues. After my personal experience, I'm not going to raise my hand for extradition this time. I picked it up twice for myself and for the President, but this time, I'm sorry, after reading the extradition request in detail, it's the same as in September 2017, I can't do that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u13	I'll load an apology. She apologizes between 10.45 and 12.30 for work reasons by Mrs Renáta Zajíčková. Another enrollment for the general debate is Mr Pavel Růžička. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a crook standing before you, a landlord, one who was dealing with municipal property and in 2017 was published by this House. I'm saying this exactly as the House of Police came here. For those colleagues who are new here in the House, I would allow them to quote from their own story how easily a prosecution can be ordered. It's very simple. I'll tell you on points, too, so you can learn, in case you need to take down some political competition. It's really simple. But I'd start all over again. [[11.00 hours]] In 2019 - I was already a Member - the District Court in Chomutov acquitted nine citizens of Postoloprt - these citizens were representatives of the city, including myself - of the prosecution for the fact that, as representatives, they were to commit an offence of breach of the obligation to manage foreign property for negligence. The fact was that, as representatives of the town of Postoloprt, they decided to sell the house in the property of the city at a lower price than the price usually available on the site without justifying such a decision at the council. I think this is also very important for the representatives of STAN who defend the interests of the mayors. The association of cities and municipalities, when we were in this problem, made a dead bug, and it didn't stand up for us. The only person who stood up for us at that time was the Deputy Minister of the Interior who recommended that our case be assessed by the Department of the Interior whether or not we did something wrong. But I'll get to that, too. So the story of nine, or at the beginning of ten representatives of the town of Postoloprt - because then the police department found out that the one, the tenth, did not participate at all, but was also charged. Never mind, it was political competition. It was clearly a person who wanted to be in the council, did not get there and began to harm, as a similar example here with Mr Babiš. Someone wants to get rid of somebody, so what's he gonna do? He's ordering prosecution, that's the easiest thing. I'll get to that one step at a time. It is very interesting and informative, especially for those new Members who are here during this parliamentary term. So the story of nine, or ten, representatives of the town of Postoloprt headed by the mayor. I note that during the YES movement, I myself was charged with the fact that all the other eight representatives were only from the association they were running for, so I was alone in the political movement - so that no one would say that the YES movement had its own people there. I was there alone for YES. So an example could serve as an example to all critics who point to the failure of the public prosecutor's system in cases relating to the decision-making of self-government. The role of the law enforcement authorities is based on a single expert opinion, the method of which raised doubts from the outset, the disregard of the evidence in favour of the defendants and the ignorance of the current caselaw. Please, expert opinion is the most important thing. I'm gonna mention it here, how we can exploit an expert opinion. Little is enough - to find a related expert who appreciates something in his expert opinion, even then he doesn't know what, at some cost, and doesn't even know at which price. Unfortunately, this mix of individual misconduct did not find a corresponding correction in the criminal proceedings system before it had to go relatively banal to the court. In the meantime, I have become a Member and, with Mr Svoboda, we have been issued here in the last parliamentary term. This matter ended with a final decision to exonerate the prosecution, and please, on a proposal from the prosecutor. This process lasted four years. So Růžička plus eight other representatives were dragged in media for four years, they were referred to as bad guys, those who deal with municipal property, and then the prosecutor at the court will clearly say that nothing happened. From the damage of half a million crowns we were supposed to cause as city representatives, with a review report - which was submitted to the court because our expert reports were not taken into account - this expert opinion said that we actually sold it with fifty thousand dollars' profit. So it's a half-million-dollar loss, then a 50-dollar profit. The logical question then arises as to whether the damage to the State was caused by those who caused unnecessary criminal proceedings and the associated costs. What was it like at the beginning? At the beginning of the case was the criminal report of a citizen Josef Tišák, a local businessman, a collaborator. Postoloprt's representative decided in the autumn of 2015 when I was not yet in politics - I didn't even think about it - to sell the house to the previous tenant in the square. Yes, in 2015, I've actually been there before. She's been using the house for two years. Before that, the house was almost a year and a half without a tenant. The city had to carry out regular repairs, which, as the court expert confirmed, were rather maintenance, cosmetic and in no way raised the value of the house. The town was looking for a house for which it had no own use - the lower floor was designed for business, in the upper was one large housing area, but uninhabitable. The previous buyer repeatedly from 2008 - the original estimate until 2008, which served for the purpose of purchasing a third of the share so that the city owned the property in its entirety and could sell it - set it at 1,506 000. Approximately at this price, the city also offered a house for sale without anyone registering. In 2011, the city therefore decided to reduce the required price to 1 million, which was justified by the overall decay of the building, which would necessarily be expected for use by extensive reconstruction. The city simply didn't know what to do with this property, it didn't want to invest in it, and most importantly it wanted to prevent any speculator from buying this property and, for example, here in Prague, he moved us some other inadaptable because we are a socially excluded locality. The only person interested in Vietnamese nationality who offered to deposit a million in cash, whose offer was not heard by previous representatives. According to some witnesses, concern about the subsequent use of this house, which stands in the center of the city, played a role. In the fall, the city received the same offer from the aforementioned Mr. Tišák, and he wanted to buy the house for half a million - for half a million before that, and now he didn't seem to have a million. [[Too much?]] He also argued that the property was dilapidated and there was a need for reconstruction. This was all the police and the prosecutor's office knew, but the prosecutor's machine kept working. We're just gonna get those nine thugs, the deputies, to court. They did it, too. The representatives did not approve the sale, however, it was again publicly stated that the house was dilapidated and in general in poor condition. The house then lost the tenant. However, the city did little work in it for about 460,000 so that the house wouldn't fall. As has already been said, according to the court-invited expert, this reconstruction did not increase this value. The aim of the representatives at the repair was to keep the house from uglying the square and at least having the facade repaired, if nothing else. The list of these events is important for it, as it describes local conditions and general awareness of the state of the house before its sale. Since 2014, I have been elected to the city council, so when the current tenant, who had been running the tailor's salon since 2013, expressed an interest in the purchase of the house in 2015, at a price of 1 million, the city was not opposed. The intention was once again approved by the council, published on the official record, where the period prescribed by law was during which the city received one single offer from the said tenant, which was subsequently sold to the council for CZK 1 million in full. Yes, the only thing I did in this was raise my hand on that council. Nothing more, nothing less. However, the banks refused to provide the tenant with the required mortgage, both of which reached prices of about CZK 1 million when assessing the value of the house. It was Česká spořitelna and Equa bank. [[11.10 hours]] These circumstances led to the city council having to deal with the draft repayment of the purchase price after a few months with a payment schedule, when within ten years the city received CZK 1.25 million for the house. During the meeting at which the payment schedule was duly approved by the council, a debate was held by representatives of the said property. This was accompanied by an estimate of banks and a proposal was made by Mr Tišák, who will buy this house for CZK 1,010 000, which is 10,000 more. But he was told that this sale was no longer possible because the representatives had already decided at the previous meeting. That's where the story begins. Mr. Tišák got angry and said, "I'll sweeten it for you." And things started to happen. The previous criminal report from this disgruntled citizen has fallen. Police, specifically members of the Department of Economic Crime in Louny - Louny, for those who don't know it, is a small town, twenty thousand, it's beautiful, it's not so much happening there from the crime, so the case at the beginning of ten, then nine local police representatives was something huge - all the police officers in the economic crime squad sparked their eyes, how nine representatives could start prosecuting and do everything to get them started. So this department of economic crime brought in an expert in property valuation in February, a Mr. Jiří Vaněk. This expert has already worked on reports within the Ústí Police Department and exclusively for this Loun department, where he was from 2011 to 2016, so the police were glad to have his expert. They had some ties, he got about 22,000 for it. The police department, and here it comes, gave the experts an assignment to set the property price for its sale in 2015. Well, he forgot how much he wanted to know in that expert opinion. It wasn't what it wanted, so that's great. The first thing is that you get mad at someone, you need to find a loyal cop to convince you that you're right, you have to go to him for a long time to then say, so I'll start prosecuting them, so I can keep quiet from that Tišák, and find a suitable expert to say, "We need to get those nine representatives to court, for us it's a case, we need the damage to be more than half a million, so we can start prosecuting under a more stringent paragraph." And if the expert doesn't have an expert's opinion on what price to set, he's going to set a price, he's going to do it in ficans, and that half million went over CZK 2,864. It wasn't weird at all for the D.A. to climb by less than 3,000, and they started prosecuting us according to the stricter section. So you can do huge things through experts, and you who are in self-government, so this way, where there's a huge whip on you, you really just have to disgust someone with your decision and you have hell for at least four years. So the expert made such an assessment and submitted it, but he was unable to explain exactly the reasons why he had reached the price and the method he had chosen in the court. That wasn't weird in the pre-trial process, not the police, not the state's attorney. In addition, the testimony of the new owner of the house in the preparatory proceedings showed that the expert stopped at the house on Friday afternoon with his wife while traveling to the cottage and spent about ten minutes in the house. Within ten minutes, this expert told the Ortel over nine representatives and made their lives an incredible hell for four years. In some parts of the house he then did not look at at at all, the roof only looked down in the dark and the witness also questioned the figure in the opinion that the expert carried out any measurements. The expert himself did not deny these facts in his testimony to the court. In this statement, the owner of the police officer also drew attention to other estimates that exist, one for 700,000 and another for 1,000,000. In the course of the preparatory procedure, suspects and subsequently accusations by representatives repeatedly against contradictions in the opinion - including its similarity with the opinion drawn up in 2008, merely copied it, changed the date and copied it - did not solve the determination of the selling price, or the usual price, at the time and place. In that opinion, the 2008 passages, which reminds me of the current request for the extradition of Mr Babiš, where things were also copied. It was about identifying different rooms and clubhouses. I pointed that out in the process, and nobody cared at all. Not at all, just blindfolded blindfolds, we're gonna get those nine bad guys. In our complaints to the State Attorney, we also disputed the determination of the liability of the representatives, which the police authority established in accordance with Section 39 of the Municipalities Act in the communication of the accusations. According to this provision, the City's assets are normally sold at a price at a given location and at a normal time, with a derogation from that price to be justified. Again, no one cared. If you find your cop, you can do whatever you want with everyone. In my complaint against the initiation of the prosecution, I expressly stated that this provision does not entail an obligation to draw up an expert opinion in order to satisfy the condition of such justification, based on a reference to professional literature and the relevant comments of the Municipalities Act. Both I and the mayor have repeatedly stated in our statements and complaints to the prosecutor that such justifications exist and have asked for their action by the police authority. Everyone laughed at us. However, the prosecutor Radka Pavlišová rejected the defendant's complaint with a justification that, since the expert opinion drawn contains all the elements, the expert conclusion on the resulting price is to a sufficient extent justified and logically linked to the methods used, it cannot be concluded that the findings of the expert examination are fully eligible for a procedural procedure leading up to the decision under appeal, for which it is sufficient to base. So, actually, the D.A. here has consecrated the work of the police and we've been charged. According to the D.A., the D.A. did not normally justify its departure from the price, considered the relevant reasons for the mention of a poor technical condition and so on and so on and so on. [[You didn't?]] It is also necessary to stress that the very statement that the price has been reduced due to the state of emergency of the house cannot be met because it is not a reason to deviate from the normal purchase price. But I repeat, the expert did not examine any usual purchase price and was not in the expert's opinion. So it's kind of funny, it got court-martialed. Of course, the Regional District Attorney's superior confirmed what the State Attorney was doing in Louny. She said it was all okay, and the prosecution ended up at the District Court in Chomutov, where the President of the court Kateřina Vltavská was able to issue a criminal order of 25,000 in one day, and then everyone said to us: "Look at them, because he gave the court a criminal order, so they certainly did something there, and of course the court condemned them. Of course, we appealed against it. The judge was very active - when we asked how she could have uploaded that huge file in one day, we were told that this is how it's usually done in court, that it's common practice that they tan you without checking whether you're guilty or guilty. [[11.20 hours]] At the end of March, the city received an opinion from the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic, a department of public administration, supervision and control, which in all respects found the procedure of the town of Postoloprt in the sale of the said house in accordance with the law on municipalities. And no one cared. Not the prosecutor, not the police, not the court. In conclusion, the law enforcement authorities have since the beginning of the investigation had information on the reasons why the defendants' decision was made and then the defendants' representatives sold the house for a specific amount. Similarly, since the beginning of the criminal proceedings, there have been relevant doubts about the procedure and the chosen method of assessment by the police of the invited expert. However, neither the police nor the supervisory or supervisory prosecutors have dealt with the objections, which is similar to the case we are dealing with now. No one could deal with objections. In the words of the prosecutor of the prosecution, it appears that the law enforcement authorities have acted with great negligence in their decision, which can cause much damage to the State. In the final speech before the court - because the House did not release me, I was sidelined from the case, just as Mr Svoboda here did similarly, so the other representatives of the court went through - and in the closing speech Mrs Pavlišová defended the police procedure, and in particular my unprofessional procedure, and she literally said in the court that she was not an expert in property valuation and therefore cannot know what the price was right. Please, she's made nine people incompetent hell for four years. Then, of course, I evolved out of it, because when the court ruled, the D.A. dropped the lawsuit on me, so I got out of it, too. In conclusion, it was a huge intervention in personal life, in the personal sphere, in the family, in my condition, where I was then diagnosed with oncological illness. And for Mr Svoboda - now is the point B when I am suing the state, and the Office for State Representation through Master Borovička at the hearing says: "Nothing has happened, please be glad that you have not been arrested, that the prosecution has been dropped on you, be glad, that is the only compensation the state will give you. But I can't deal with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u15	I'll load an apology. From today's day from fourteen to its end, Mr Jan Volný apologizes for his work and, on the contrary, withdraws his apology from today's 13 o'clock, Mr Kolovratník. Mr Vondráček is now in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u16	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Maybe I could fit in a factual note, but I don't have to rush. I'm gonna try to make an objective statement here. Of course, I understand that non-members of the ANO movement will always see me as Vice-President of the movement, that there is some bias and that I cannot be objective. Of course, to some extent they are right. On the other hand, I'm really trying to approach this from a legal point of view. I never spoke to the extradition when I was in the position of president of the House. I didn't think the performance of that function was appropriate. I am now chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and I think it is desirable, on the contrary, that I should speak briefly and make a brief statement on this. We've discussed many times here that immunity is not the personal privilege of the individual who happened to be elected to the Chamber of Deputies. Immunity is intended to protect the functioning of Parliament's chambers and to prevent the intervention of executive powers. It is not possible to limit the functioning of the chamber without legal and clear authorisation. It's not some personal responsibility of those individuals, it's not an exception to criminal liability. It should always be seen whether it is in any way or not an intervention in legislative power. I remember the beautiful debates on this subject in this House, such as with an excellent speaker and political opponent, Mr Polčák, who is now the MEP, when we were talking about the history of immunity that arose in the old England, when the king was not allowed to arrest a Member riding a horse at a parliamentary meeting. That's how it all started. For the sake of interest, immunity as such, the incompetence of Members - the law was adopted in the first Republic before the Interim Constitution. Thus, our ancestors considered it important for Members to be able to carry out their activities. And now for this particular case. I will be very brief because Mrs Válková has summed everything up in an exhaustive manner, and I say to the Member on purpose, because she has not acted as chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. I really think that the basis of all of this is the exquisite description of the deed, what the rapporteur here has read so honestly - and I thank him for it because it sounded on the microphone, it will be on the screen record, everyone can get to know it, everyone can find it clearly, quickly. We're here today to decide whether or not the police have complied with all the rules for possible intervention into the legislative power, as they are in the rule of law and belong. That's what today's decision is all about. And these rules determine the Constitution, our Rules of Procedure, Section 12, but also the Supreme Court's decisions, which have been quoted here and which are quite precise in these matters. The Supreme Court has made it clear that the deed must be described in detail. I believe that Section 12 of the Rules of Procedure also builds on deed rather than legal qualifications. Legal qualifications there are basically conditional, there is clear that there may be a change, but it must always be clearly described from the position of the court in detail. And here is a very clear discrepancy between deed and subsequent legal qualifications. I think it was in President Babiš's letter, where he referred to murder and subsequent prosecution for a car accident as two completely different events. I just want to point out here that what is described in the extradition request cannot be prosecuted by Mr Andrej Babiš because of the eleven people he was supposed to be driving, nine are finally free and are innocent. You can't organize something that's not criminal to make your organization criminal, if you understand me. It's a connected vessel. Of course, if you instruct someone to do something that is not criminal, it is also not criminal. They can't give instructions on something legal to cause criminal liability. If we know that the action described in the application can't be a cause for prosecution, then can't Mr. Andrej Babiš be removed for it, so I'm asking if this extradition is really of any use? Because I'm of the opinion that, above all, our extradition will be useless to the court. Until now, it was in the hands of the police under the permanent supervision of the state's attorney and the supervisor of the Supreme Prosecutor's body. Now it's gonna come to trial. Basically, we're in a phase where they say the prosecution's already written. So I would understand here some difference between the description of the deed and the legal qualifications at the beginning, but we've had almost five years of pre-trial proceedings, they've already interviewed everyone, they've done all the written evidence, nine out of 11 people are innocent, those that Andrej Babiš was supposed to organize. And in this situation we have to organize, although he himself is already identified as a legal aide, so we have to give him up for that. And I just don't think that's gonna be enough for the trial. And I'm saying that we're probably gonna meet here again and we're gonna renegotiate. There's some basic legal logic to that. And I ask, therefore, whether this is a little bit of our business card - this famous, grand council - that we will carry out some kind of legal act or legal act, a new language that seems to have such shortcomings that in a judicial review it will be found to be useless. [[11.30 hours]] I understand that I am a YES movement, I understand that I am biased, although I am trying not to be biased, but please try to think about it afterwards. We probably all know how to vote, so the issue will take place, but try to think about it, that you will actually be signed under something that has a relatively fundamental legal flaw, and if we, the Members, who are 200 and who have been elected by the citizens of the Czech Republic, should not pay more attention to compliance with the legal rules and to the rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u17	Thank you. Mr Vondráček's speech has started to blow right here, so I'm asking for peace. It is now Mr Pavel Svoboda's turn. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Allow me only briefly to take the impression as a member of the mandate and immunity committee. I'm here for the first term, so far I've only had information from the media, and I'm going to say, latently, I've watched this case in a limited way. Thanks to membership of the mandate and immune committee, I have had the opportunity to study the file and I will vote in favour clearly, because any doubts that may be mentioned by colleagues and appear in the media have simply been refuted for myself. Allow me to make a key statement or underline this fundamental fact - we are not here to decide guilt, punishment and so on. This belongs to the court, to the independent court, and I believe we have such courts in this republic. My colleague Babiš, repeatedly, if I'm not mistaken, asked for extradition, agreed to do so himself. For inviting President Válková - through Madam President - thank you for inviting him to the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee. The MP didn't show up, he sent a letter. First of all. Secondly, he has changed his mind, now he does not want to issue, and thirdly, key information for me: the blame and punishment do not decide social networks, we do not decide this here, it is not for protestors to decide before the House, no one who builds gallows decides on it by an independent court. And if an investigator, a prosecutor, and a mandate and an immune committee stand in line and say yes, that's what happened, I have no reason not to believe it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u19	Mr Karel Haas is the last member so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u20	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would probably, in similar words as my colleague Radek Vondráček, by your means, have entered into a factual but rather... if I had gone a little too far. It's either three or four points. First point. I was not surprised by the speeches of my colleagues Babiš, my colleague Faltýnek, my colleague Růžička - once again through you, of course, Madam President - the words about "compression," about political motivation, about ordering criminal proceedings, which I think the Czech Republic has been hearing as a roundabout for many years. So in that sense, I was not surprised at all by these speeches. I confess that I was slightly frightened by the speeches made by my colleague Válková and colleague Vondráček, again through you. Why did they scare me? I was terrified by the relativisation of the prosecutor's request for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies with the extradition of Mr Andrej Babiš. Did the former Minister of Justice, the former President of the Chamber of Deputies scare me, mean the top representatives of the Czech Republic, what do they say? Well, they express their distrust of the power of the court, one of the three pillars of the Czech constitutional system. They argue that they do not recommend extradition, that they do not seem to believe that the power of the court will work in this particular matter. And I, of course, cannot know the result, I am not a member of the mandate and immune committee, I do not know the content of the file, so I do not anticipate any decision at all, but really from the mouth of these two colleagues, particularly these two colleagues, both lawyers and both former top representatives of the Czech constitutional institutions, so their speeches really scared me easily. And my third point is a quote, really literal, from the moral code of ANO representatives - still available on the ANO website - March 3, 2017. I would like to quote point IX: "In the event of criminal proceedings or prosecutions against its own person, the representative will not use the Member's, the Senator's immunity and ask the parliamentary committee responsible to propose its extradition without delay. The only exception in this respect is possible prosecution for political speeches made in the Czech Parliament." End of quote. So I am quite curious - I understand that there are not only members of the YES movement in the ANO parliamentary club, they will probably vote freely, but I wonder how members of the ANO member club who are members of the YES movement will abide by their own moral code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u21	There are now two factual points. The first is from Mr Vít Vomáčka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really can fit into a factual point. I have listened very carefully here and often interesting interpretations and justifications and so on. I'm not a lawyer, I'm a zoo technician, I'm a long-time mayor, and that's why I was more frightened by the kind of construction that Růžička here - through the President - spoke about the police. Please be careful, let's not judge the police just for some personal purpose. A few months ago, when there was a pandemic, we thanked them here when it was before the election, we all thanked them, and, hey, after the election, it's already been said that it's very easy to find a cop, go to him for a long time, and he's gonna help us. Let us be careful in this, let us not give such signals to our citizens. We all know that GIBS is here, as Members, we have various committees, subcommittees, etc. I think that this is very unnecessary, that it is detrimental to the view of citizens of the police, and we should not be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u23	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Vondráček is now registered with a factual remark. Then the de facto Mr Růžička. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u24	Thank you for the floor. There is no way I wanted to scare you, my colleague, through the President I apologize. On the contrary, there are even philosophical guidelines that claim that, in fact, all disputes between mankind are by giving different meanings to the same words. On the contrary, I have high confidence in the courts of the Czech Republic and I also know how they approach it. They're looking at it a little differently, so they're really going to judge it from their point of view. Even the Válková of the Supreme Court have been quoted here, and I reasonably believe that the discrepancy between the description of the act and the legal qualifications will lead the court to conclude that Mr Andrej Babiš has been misplaced for a deed for which he cannot be prosecuted because he is not a criminal. That's my high trust. So my objection is more formal if the police aren't doing it right, if we shouldn't be leading her to fix it, because I'm afraid we're gonna do it again someday, the extradition. [[11.40 hours]] I tried to perform without emotion, with high trust in the courts. As the colleague then appeared, there is a new one, Mr Svoboda: we are having the debate, at every issue, that we are not here to make decisions about guilt or innocence. I didn't talk about guilt or innocence for a second either. I specifically wanted to comply with Section 12 of our Rules of Procedure, because that is our law. This is closer to us than the criminal one, and we should insist on the proper description of the deed, because if we do it this way, and as President Babiš used the word, giving blank checks, one day it may turn against the House itself. Well, unfortunately, it's a matter of Andrej Babiš, I understand that there's that color and that maybe you don't believe me, you'll deal with the vote. And thank you for the correct debate, and I didn't want to scare my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u25	Time. Mr Růžička is now registered with a factual remark, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u26	I would like to see a colleague here, through Madam President, from the ODS. Please, you've got your Šlachta, haven't you? You talk about it everywhere, all the time. I've said my personal experience here, you can read the verdict where it's clearly written, so I haven't said anything new here. And so that citizens can't know that in some cases the police aren't doing their job well, so you want me to lie here? You're kidding, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u27	It is now registered with the factual Mrs Válková, subsequently Mr Vomáčka. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Well, of course, when someone calls a fellow Member basically someone who's haunted, then the MP or the MP has to get back to me, so I'm responding. I did not want to scare anyone, but it is necessary - we are not a herd of dull Members and Members - to see what the legal framework is. And as I've seen, it's already been quoted by News. I said I fully understood anyone who had a different legal opinion. My legal opinion is clear on the basis of experience, my practice, knowledge of case law and legislation in particular. If someone else has a legal opinion, please - and that's what we're here for, co-workers and co-workers to talk about. But we certainly don't have to scare each other, and I'd be the last person to want to scare someone. Actually, I don't even know how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u29	I also thank you for keeping time. Now with the de facto Mr Vomáčka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u30	I have to respond to a colleague. I don't know how long you've been worrying, I've been worrying for 30 years. I think that Kravaře, the police say that Kravars are the top, because we even had zoophilia there, we had murders there, and so on, I've always worked with the police, we've always agreed. The police have always behaved. [[Laughter from the YES benches.]] Yes, as self-government...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u31	I ask the Members to remain calm, so that the Member may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u32	... as a government, if there was to be any action, of course we were cooperative and we agreed with the police. Yes, what in God's name is wrong with that? It's a lovely message to our public! That's all. And that's a way of letting the public know that the government is working with the police. So, my colleague, you don't have to lecture me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u33	Thank you, too. Another registered with priority rights - Mr. Chairman? Or de facto? Probably a priority, okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the position of the SPD movement. Before I do that, let me take a short tour of history. I don't even know exactly anymore, but I think we're going to be publishing Mr. Babiš here for the fourth time. Third or fourth? [[Member of the Faltynek from the third place.]] Third time, and I firmly believe it's the last time. I firmly believe this is the last time. 'Cause if you don't, I'm really starting to think something's wrong somewhere. And my point is not for the Chamber of Deputies here, but for something else. The SPD will vote in favour of Mr Andrej Babiš's extradition because that is how it voted last time. In my opinion, nothing has changed about the whole case, and an independent court should tell where the truth is. But I stress: I believe this is the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u35	Thank you, too. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far, and since no one else is reporting in, I am ending it. The rapporteur asked for a possible final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, in the final words of the rapporteur, I would like to respond to a few comments from my colleagues. I must say that my colleague Růžička's story, although I don't think it is part of today's meeting, I understand it, I understand it, and the question is, what is the solution at the moment? He was acting as a representative in that thing. We know the police went after a lot of deputies like this, and most of the time, the court basically wiped it out. But I don't think the solution is the immunity of the deputy. We're just discussing a case here on the table as the Chamber of Deputies, and I have to say, every citizen in this state can get to the kind of martyria that he said here. I, too, am a long-term mayor, and I was actually a lawyer, and I did criminal things, and I often wondered what kind of things the citizens were attracted to. We have to say that, in ordinary cases, the amount of their income is to be charged by natural persons for credit fraud, for the fact that they may indicate otherwise. And take this, for example, that a thousand is written as if in fact an extra thousand and, of course, it is removed and the impact of criminal law, even including punishment. And here we're talking about 50 million from public budgets. We're talking about 50 million that came from public budgets. [[A voice from the O.R. that's not the final word.]] Yes, it's the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u37	Please don't talk to each other from the bench. And, Mr Member, Mr rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u38	I think on the information that we're talking about 50 million from public budgets, I don't know what's irrelevant from the rapporteur's point of view. That's what's mentioned in the deed. So I'm gonna keep going. My colleague Válková and colleague Vondráček: Yes, there is a discussion...... about this... [[President: Through me, please, through me, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[President: Through the President!]] I'm sorry, through Mr President... [[Laughs in the hall.]] ... President, through the President, with a colleague, of course, the discussions in purely legal form are quite common and it must be said that, as the prosecutor has put forward in his request, it is his business. I've basically read the deed here because we agreed. I even thought it would be enough to refer to this thing as it was in the past, but we agreed on a different procedure and I accepted it. If that's what happened, if that's what happened, it's a felony, it has to be told by the court, and it's obviously a matter for the D.A. to prove it. In order for the court to give the guilt and punishment, he has to prove it. If qualifications have been mentioned here, the application should contain only the expected qualifications. If qualifications are more favourable to him than before, it is in a way an advantage to the accused. Legal qualifications are not binding and such qualifications can be re-qualified by a court or law enforcement authority. That is the law, and if it was mentioned here, in Section 12.1 it is clearly foreseen. [[11.50 hours]] I could point out a colleague here, through Madam President, Babiš, who obviously did not listen enough to the news report here, because, as rapporteur, he basically identified me as the text of the action that was in the request. But here I have to say quite rightly that the President has set this right, that the fact that we have heard the request for this fact here is a procedural procedure in the matter. Otherwise, I can say that if a crime occurs, for example, if the money comes back and it's back, it doesn't mean that the crime didn't happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u39	Quiet in the hall, please. Please let the rapporteur finish his word. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u40	Okay, so that's just a question of the particular act. Otherwise, I'm going to sum up that we're only here to investigate whether the conditions for prosecution are laid down, so it's up to the court to rule on guilt and punishment. If there have been any reservations, they will, of course, be used in the future as a defense in criminal proceedings. So at the end of the matter, as rapporteur, it is essential for me to just say once again that the mandate and immune committee recommended Mr Andrej Babiš to issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u41	Thank you. The next report is with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. To speak to the rapporteur, I think he has crossed the scope of the report, as we have often been taught in the last parliamentary term. That is, he should have made a clear suggestion, not here to present his conclusions. He could have signed up for this in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u43	The rapporteur summarized the ongoing debate, and I do not believe that he has exceeded his authority. [[Inconvenient screams from members of the YES.]] However, we will now proceed to the detailed debate that the rapporteur is reporting to. I do not see any other application, so please the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u44	I would just apply to the proposal that has already been tabled here and read in detail for that long time, which means that it has already been in the general debate, so I am applying to it and it is a proposal that we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u45	Thank you. Furthermore, no one else is reporting to the detailed debate, so I am ending this detailed debate. Will I ask if there is still an interest in the final word, Mr rapporteur? No. I'll call the MPs and the MPs to the ballroom. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. Once the number of entries is settled, I will begin voting on the motion for a resolution tabled. The number has stabilized. I therefore initiate the vote on the motion for a resolution and ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 140 vote, 176 Members and Members were enrolled, for 112, against 63, and the motion for a resolution was adopted. I'm done with this point. To the vote? Yes, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm in favour of high school, I voted against, I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u47	Yes, the questioning of the vote. I shall therefore vote on Mr Kott's objection. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? [[There's a disturbance in the room.]] In the vote number 141, 176 Members and Members were registered, for 175, against none, the objection was accepted. I therefore repeat the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. I'm initiating it and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 142, 176 Members and Members were enrolled, for 111, against 65, and the proposal was adopted. No one else objects to this vote. President Schillerová shall report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. I'm from another keg. I would like to propose, on behalf of the ANO and the SPD Members' Clubs, an extension of today's day even after 19 o'clock, both meritorically and in a process, and for the completion of the item under discussion even after 21 o'clock. Thank you. I've been consulting this in government clubs for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-001-107.u49	Thank you for the proposal. Since this is a procedural proposal, we are voting on it immediately without debate. Therefore, I am opening the vote on the proposal that we should continue to act after 19 o'clock. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 143, 176 Members and Members were enrolled, for 166, against none, and the proposal was accepted. So our negotiations will continue after 19 o'clock. Now I'm starting another point, which is the point.
