ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Noise, the movement of the Members in the Chamber.]] Please keep your voice down. In order to record our participation, I'm going to check you out first, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your I.D. cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 7th meeting, and Mrs Renáta Zajíčková will vote with the 23 alternate card. [[Noise in the hall.]] I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, to be quiet. Today's meeting will begin by discussing suspended paragraph 68, the request of the Government of the Czech Republic for a vote of confidence. We interrupted this item in the debate at 7.04 minutes at the 6th meeting this morning. Once again, I'd like to ask you to lower your voice, possibly move your individual conversations into the foyer. So now we will continue the interrupted debate. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová is in favour of the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u2	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on what happened here this morning and, above all, on what Mr Stanjura has said here that I have not acted as President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to say the procedure here and remind you how it went down here, and I believe that Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, through Madam President, will then come to the microphone and recognise that what he said here was unfair. Mr. Okamura came to the microphone at 6 a.m. 57 minutes and asked for a two-hour break. At that point, I did not declare a break, and I interrupted a meeting at a meeting of the chairmen of the MPs. The presidents of the MPs met and unanimously agreed that the meeting would be adjourned within 18 hours. I subsequently announced this and acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. I'll load an apology. Newly, to those who have already been read at our 7th meeting, Mrs Voborská apologizes between 18 and 19 o'clock for personal reasons. The President of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u4	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues. After the experience of the 22-hour negotiations of the last day, or last day and last night, I would like to express some at least elementary little hope that we will not drag ourselves here into the one who lasts more. For the entire government coalition, I can say that we're ready, you don't tire us out. However, just to be sure, if there were any tendency to repeat the negotiations, I would like to vote on behalf of five ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates that we will discuss the point of trust of the Czech government and vote on 19th, 21st, 23rd, 2nd morning, 4th morning, 6th morning and so on. Thank you. But I firmly hope, strongly hope that we can really forgive ourselves for this here, and, given that all the contributions have been made, we will be able to go to the vote and express our will or rightful not to express our confidence in the government, by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u5	Mr President, as I understand it, your proposal did not come up at this time, you are merely making an announcement. He sounded - he said, yes, I'm sorry, I said something here at the same time. Okay, we will therefore vote immediately because a procedural proposal has been made. Would you like to comment on the procedural proposal, Mr. Ambassador? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u6	Only the procedure itself, so we can vote the right way. It's not a law, it's not an international treaty, we can make use of the day until 21st, so let's vote after 21st hour, so let's get it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u7	I totally agree with that. It's true. [[Fun in the hall.]] We are therefore voting - and I think President Excellent is also nodding - so, given the vote, I will call all the Members to the hall. I will remind you that we are voting on the negotiations even after the 21st hour. Since this is not a law, it is enough by one vote. I have not noted the application for withdrawal, which is why I am opening the vote on this procedural proposal and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 46 187 Members and Members were enrolled for 186 of them. The motion was accepted. We will therefore continue the negotiations and the vote after 21st and next hours, if necessary. Furthermore, the following speakers reported with priority rights. First Minister Stanjura and then President of the SPD Fiala. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Mračková Vildumetzová, through the President, was 6.58 or 6.59, we sat here for 22 hours in a row for many, especially members of the Government, for an above-average period of time when I would take it up to one Member or a Member, I acknowledge that you followed the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u9	Thank you. Another enlisted and so far the last signed up for a priority-right debate by President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not perform at all, but I must respond to Mr Výborný. How can you not tire us out? It's the opposite, you're not tying us up, you're asking for trust. [[Laughter.]] You're asking for trust! [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] We really wanted to vote this morning in case what appeared on the Czech media scene and we needed to explain it. That's a clear, clear conflict of interest. So, what, you're not wearing us out?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see anyone else enrolled in the debate, which is why I am ending the debate. The final word that Prime Minister Petr Fiala has asked for right now... [[To Mr Okamura:]] You're applying for a priority procedure or something? President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u12	I was just looking at the president's house, and there you were supposed to say a sentence, if I was reading it correctly, that you were starting the interrupted point where we interrupted the debate, and I was ready to get off the stage here. But now...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u13	You should have listened better because it sounded from my mouth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u14	They're already nodding over there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u15	That was exactly what you said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u16	Well, I guess you can't hear it through your drape. So I'd like to get off shortly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u17	The debate has been closed and the fact that you have not paid attention to the fact that, as you say, I have reopened the interrupted point and that there has been a debate here. I repeatedly called the individual logged in. Then I'm sure you've had the opportunity to record it in those few minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u18	Well, I have the same priority right, so I'm gonna get out, but the truth is, I've paid attention to the fact that you don't know the rules of procedure. That is why you had to be corrected here by the former President of the House of Vondráček, as is actually voted in the case of a meeting of confidence in the Government in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I'm surprised that as chairman, please don't interrupt my conversation. [[The President opposes.]] It's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that you're jumping into my conversation. So I have priority rights, let me finish on the microphone. You've already tried that censorship once today, so I have the right to speak to the microphone. The MP speaks to the microphone in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you have no right to interrupt me. So please learn, be polite. In the Chamber of Deputies, the MP speaks, and then another one goes on the microphone and another one speaks. So please, keep it up. [[Minister Stanjura claims he wasn't logged in.]] I was just... Likewise, Minister, the MP speaks to the microphone. So please don't yell at the whole O.R. You have room for a microphone. I'd like to say one thing. I came here to ask - I was summoned, not that I was not summoned, I was summoned, so you probably didn't listen, so I'm based on the call, not arbitraryly on the microphone - and now I'm here asking, like you asked a hundred times about the microphone, it's okay. Now all I'm saying is that I'd like to get out, because I didn't hear you right, that could happen to anybody, and I'm gonna get out anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u19	Mr Okamura, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, § 59, para. 4, I had the right to interrupt you the moment you didn't proceed according to what is your right to perform. So I object to what you said I was not acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As far as your performance is concerned, it's a priority. First of all, we're not supposed to shout at each other like that. If you want to log in with a priority right, you get the option, you just log in. But with this possibility, the contribution, the final word of Prime Minister Fiala, has already been announced, so wait, then you will have the opportunity to speak. And please forgive us for these disputations. [[A round of applause from the benches of members of the government coalition.]] Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u20	Yes, Mr. Okamura and I both have priority rights. I'm invited to speak, he should come after me. However, I prefer him and he can get off now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u21	Now, therefore, with priority rights after the end of the debate, President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u22	Prime Minister, thank you. It's also in the sequence, I won't have it long. So it's in that sequence, I think it has the logic that you guys are going to close this whole thing down, so thank you for the political understanding of my performance and the order, which I would just like to see in the House President to see this politically. So I would just like to add, because, ladies and gentlemen, during this day, as you all know, events have shifted. They moved on from what we proposed here this morning, and we went through this to postpone the vote on trust to the new government only after an extraordinary meeting was held on the topic of clarifying the opaque funding of the STAN movement. As you know, the outcome of this extraordinary meeting this morning is really very bad, because Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan, Minister of Interior and Chairman of the STAN movement, did not say who the specific end owners, namely the natural persons who own Cypriot companies in tax havens, which sponsor the STAN movement - simply did not say so, simply conceal it. He can't say it because it would be a mess, that's why he can't say it here, that's the problem. At the same time, the problem is that such a party is part of a government coalition. Second, the chairman of the STAN movement, as well as the Interior Minister and Vice Prime Minister, refused to reveal the obscured structure of Cypriot companies in tax havens, so that citizens would know from what activities and from which entrepreneurs the money received by the STAN movement comes. And that's just a big problem. I was here calling on Prime Minister Petr Fiala - and now the audience of Czech Television know why you were banging on the table and you didn't want to allow me to perform because of course it's uncomfortable for you to listen to this. But we're not gonna go to the SPD, we're gonna fight for a transparent policy. So now it's clear, the audience's already put it in context. I would like to ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala once again to call on - because he will have a final performance after me - to call on the Vice Prime Minister and Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement to say (a) to reply, now before voting on trust, to these questions, secondly, to propose, for reasons of conflict of interest - because the Interior Minister of Rakušan falls under the police - the appeal of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and to propose the appointment of a new interior minister who will not be associated with the STAN movement. Perhaps it is our common goal that - well, you agreed on most, on 108, but yet that government should at least be stable. Okay, you program things that, from our point of view, aren't good for ordinary citizens, but that's the deal you made, so here it is. At the same time - and that's the news, which is why I'm talking about it here - it turns out that we're not alone in these feelings, because the chairman of your coalition party Pirates Ivan Bartoš - and it went on with all the media, here I have a cover story on News.cz So I'm going to quote it again because some of them are standing on their ears and putting something in my mouth that I didn't say - says STAN has to explain his funding. The article further states that Ivan Bartoš - I read, quote directly, the article - "Ivan Bartoš has joined the opposition members of the ANO and SPD movement, who today, Thursday morning, have been molding the starosta and their Chairman Vít Rakušan at an emergency meeting due to explanations of cash donations from companies that are often linked by personnel, have Cyprus's owner or are in loss. " Now, that's the point of why I came here. Because, since the end of the emergency meeting this morning, by 6:00 p.m., when the new government is to be voted on, we have not noticed any new information that Vít Rakušan and STAN would explain their funding. No, there's no new information here. When I came here, I had our analysts do some more media analysis, I had them do some monitoring, see if there was any movement. So when the simple logic of the move, the Chairman of the Pirates and the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš received no explanation about the unclear funding of the STAN movement, but he says that STAN must explain it. So I think from this point on, because you're already into yourself in a government coalition, and you don't even have confidence yet, and you're already fighting, and you're already attacking each other. Yes, the reason is in this case - I am glad that Ivan Bartoš, as News has written here, has joined the opposition members of the ANO and SPD movements on this matter, but Mr Pirates and the Minister for Regional Development, can you still give us a microphone before Prime Minister Petr Fiala gets off, explaining whether STAN has read it to you in the next few hours - because we have not noticed it anywhere - explained the financing when you say he has to explain the funding, and everyone has read it from you today? So "must" is the word, not "may" or "should" it has to. It's a yes or a no. Now I would like to ask you whether Vít Rakušan or someone from STAN explained this to you, and if you could also say on the microphone - and you can see that my explanation will not be long, because I want to give space here to others - what he explained to you, then whether he answered the questions I was talking about. [[18.20 hours]] And in the event that he has not responded to them, Minister Bartoš, if you still, the Pirates Party, will vote in favour of this government when you say it must be explained. So I wonder how the Pirate Party will stand up to this now that no new information has been heard in the public space since the end of the morning's emergency meeting. So that's my question. Yes, and basically, I think that's what everything was said. As you know, we cannot, of course, give such a government confidence. We have discussed the programming reasons and the other reasons, and I would ask Minister Bartoš to clarify this. Of course, it is possible that if he gets out and says the position, the position, as it is, maybe there will be some short reaction to it, but we don't plan on dragging it out here in some crucial way, because it's actually all been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u23	Let me remind you, then, that we are already at the end of the debate and before the final word that I hereby give to Prime Minister Petr Fial. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I started this long debate yesterday at 9 a.m. and listened very carefully to all the views, reservations, complaints and remarks of the opponents, I listened to them for 22 hours, I was present all the time, of course, with some limits that result from being a living being. The fact that I am a person, I have no doubt convinced those who would doubt it, by my non-public informal statement, which was later published. Of course, I apologize to those whom my statement touched. I was listening, taking notes. I appreciate the practical speeches that have also been made here, and overall, I must say that I appreciate the debate, that I consider democracy to be a debate, I did not mind that you spoke very carefully about our programming statement, and I appreciate the speeches from which we were able to take at least some factual observations about our programming statement, and we will certainly use them in our next work and in our work. Of course, there have also been a lot of statements, which certainly cannot be regarded as true, and I will briefly comment on some of them. Of course, it doesn't come to everyone, I'm not doing that here anymore, I'm sorry about that, but at least some of it. First of all, I cannot identify with the opposition's view that you are passing on the country in an excellent state. I believe it is the opposite. We take over the country with the highest deficits in the history of the Czech Republic. We take over from the government, which has literally managed economic growth and has supported inflation with its uneconomic policy, for which it is now completely absurdly criticizing us. I can't even agree with the fact that it was us who took people's money to raise their salaries. The money was taken from people by the last government. If she were a good farmer, there would be no need to freeze the wages of people who are certainly not responsible for your wasteful policy style. And I will remind you once more of your words. In March last year, then, Finance Minister Alena Schillerová said to the media: "I suggested that government salaries should not grow. At the moment we cannot afford it," said Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. And after the losing election, everything was different. The government of Andrej Babiš increased wages after the lost elections populously, even though it knew that there was no money in the budget, and the incoming government would have to deal with it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to save money, our government is clearly saying it, and it is necessary to save money because over the past few years, in recent years, the state has literally swelled. And it's not some myth, it's not some political declaration, it's just facts. And I'll remind you of the facts in particular. In 2017, there were 445 000 seats in public administration under the State Budget Act. By 2021, it was already 482,000 employees, and for 2022, the previous government was planning to grow even to 489,000. That's an increase of 44,000 people in five years. And I'm not evaluating these numbers right now, they're just facts that we have to work with. But what I'm evaluating is a comparison of pay. When we look at it, it was a total of CZK 162 billion in 2017, last year it was CZK 239 billion and the government of Andrej Babiš planned CZK 252 billion for next year. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an increase of CZK 90 billion in five years, an incredible 56%. And these are the data from the original draft law on the State Budget for 2022, i.e. the Ministry of Finance data. In the past, thousands of officials were recruited, public sector salaries increased and increased by being on average higher than in private, and this is a big problem, all pushing wage growth, pushing wage growth even in the private sector, and supporting inflation pressures. And now we have to deal with that. Those are the facts. President Babiš has accused us of allegedly jumping energy prices by 21 percent in January because of us. For us! The true answer, however, is that energy prices are not rising because of us, but because of the past government's missteps, and of course also because of the external influences, I do not doubt that, but because of the wrong steps of the previous government, which did not have energy security as its priority, did not invest enough in the energy sector and did not negotiate energy prices in the European Union in time. Nor can I agree with the argument that the situation would be resolved by the abolition of VAT. This is not really the address aid that is needed right now to help people who really need help right now. On the contrary, this is an area solution that has a significant impact on public finances, but it needs to be used effectively at this time where they will really help, and this is not the case with area aid. The abolition of VAT is not a solution to high energy prices, it only leads to further debt of public finances, including those of our citizens to help. Andrej Babiš also said: "If anyone experienced a difficult period, it was our government. " That's a quote. Yes, I admit that the previous government had to deal with the coronavirus crisis, that it was not an easy challenge and that you had to make difficult decisions in difficult times. That's all true. But that doesn't excuse you for the bad condition in which you're handing over the country. Let's face it, it was just the last government, your government that started at a time of really extraordinary economic growth, and you were unable to use this economic growth for the benefit of citizens and for the real development of the Czech Republic. And that's why, after four years of government, we have public finances in the way we have them, we have high inflation, we have record debt, we have people on the verge of energy poverty. Our government is ready to deal with this. We are prepared to bring the Czech Republic out of this difficult situation, we are prepared to carry out the difficult task, but the task is also so difficult because of the way you have ruled in this country in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only mentioned a few of the loudest, most striking untruths that have been said here during last night and tonight. I'm not gonna disprove all of them one by one, there'd be so many of them that I could talk for hours. [[18.30 hours]] Let the citizens take a picture of themselves, because many of them have watched this debate, let the citizens themselves take a picture of whether what you claimed is true, whether it is true that the newly created government is responsible for the current cost, the problems with dealing with the corona crisis, the lack of flats and other problems that people are facing at this time. I don't think so. We're responsible for a few weeks when we're with the government. We fully accept this responsibility and, unfortunately, we need to deal intensively with the heavy inheritance left to us by the previous government. It wasn't us ladies and gentlemen who had been in power for the past four years. It was the YES movement, and it was the other parties that were rewarded by voters for their rule by not electing them to the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to deal with the past here. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] I am aware that this is not why the citizens voted for us. I was only returning to the past to refute the false arguments that have been raised from your mouth in discussing our programming statement. We want to bring about change, we want to give hope to citizens, we want to give hope to those citizens who supported the parties to the new government coalition, but also to everyone else. And here I was talking about, in my opening speech, that we are not populists, we do not want to make false promises, but that we want to settle accounts for this House and all our voters in four years from how we have worked, what we have done and how we have fulfilled the promises that we have made. And I personally, as Prime Minister, want to set an example in this regard, and that is why I have decided to set six personal priorities out of this programming statement, from which I want to meet the voters, specifically answer to the citizens at the end of the parliamentary term. Each of these priorities, in a way, represents a significant part of this government statement presented, so even in this form here, I will now mention some of the key things that we promise citizens. My first priority is the introduction of a tax brake, which will automatically reduce the total amount of taxes for our citizens and prevent any next government from disproportionately raising taxes. The second priority is the presentation of pension reform, real pension reform, which will bring a stable system of fair pensions to the current 40s and younger ones. The third priority concerns the energy, energy self-sufficiency of our state, and that priority is the launch of a tender for the completion of the Dukovany nuclear power plant. As a fourth priority, I chose the obligation to build 200 kilometers of new highways. The fifth priority concerns education, education, and it is a revision of teaching plans at primary and secondary schools so that we can really prepare our children well for life in the 21st century. And the sixth, last priority, is a kind of symbol of the important digitization of our state. I want the obligation to carry a citizen's license, driver's license, and other documents to cease, because we will replace those in this parliamentary term with their electronic form. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, there is a programming statement from our government before you. I have now presented to you my six personal priorities, which I will be putting forward with full strength, and I believe that when we have confessed to the voters before the elections in four years from now, I will be able to say that the maximum possible from our programming statement and from these priorities, which I have now mentioned, has been fulfilled. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by repeating what I started. On behalf of my new government and the Czech Republic, in accordance with the Constitution, I ask you to express your confidence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u25	Thank you and now with priority rights to sign in to the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala, Chairman of the ANO party Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your speech on the programming statement, for almost ending this meeting. However, allow me to make a brief remark. I want to ask you to - you told at the beginning that the opposition told you that it handed you the country in excellent condition. I want to ask you to better distinguish the opposition, because the SPD has been trying to explain to you all night that our country is not in good shape and in good condition, and each of us, according to his expertise, has been telling you why. And you listed it here, whether it's a decline in real wages and wages, housing crisis, whether it's other things, rising prices of everything, rising energy prices, inflation, just problems that trouble ordinary Czech citizens, so I just want to ask you to - and tell citizens that the SPD doesn't think the Czech Republic is in good shape and in good condition. And I really wish that you could do what you're saying and promising, because it's in the best interests of all of us. Although, of course, you did not convince us in the SPD movement with your programming statement. Nevertheless, I think that the Czech Republic needs to go upstairs, solve a lot of important problems, and we need to solve them. We're not gonna give you our confidence in the SPD movement, but I still wish you all the best in the interests of all of us to do what you said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u27	And now, with priority rights, the chairman of the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u28	Good evening, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Government, Prime Minister, of course I must respond to the Prime Minister's speech, because there are simply things on which we do not agree. I think I've had a lot of facts, data, background in my speech, and those numbers are clear. Mr. Prime Minister and I disagree on this, and it looks like even here with the SPD's opposition to our country's condition. I think that it is in a very good state, indeed, for our governance, and I mentioned it in that speech, we have surpassed in GDP per capita Italy, Spain, and Portugal, and we are still one of the least indebted countries in the European Union, the sixth least indebted, not counting Estonia, Luxembourg, Bulgaria, these countries are incomparable with us. Mrs. former Finance Minister Schillerová made it clear that we had to consolidate our finances for four years after we had to have the deficits for covid. And there's clarity, we have ratings, we're doing very well. But with the Prime Minister, we simply disagree on this. To inflation. Prime Minister, I never said you were responsible for inflation. You guys were talking about Babišův's dearest before the election. I was just explaining that we can't influence oil, that there's an oil cartel, that we can't influence gas prices, that there's Europe's dependence on Russian gas. And you will see at the European Council how many prime ministers there will say that we are not dependent, and that is not true. Instead, and I will be happy, and I certainly recommend you to fight for Nord Stream 2 and other pipelines, and finally, although of course, we have an opinion on Russia, but in this regard - and I am convinced - and you, next to President Macron, will sit that he is in favour of gas. And I'm sure I'll be rooting for you to convince the other prime ministers to change the MiFID directive, emission allowances that have a 24 percent negative impact on electricity prices. [[18.40 hours]] So these are all things that - I never said it was your fault, you said about Babišův's expensiveness - I, of course, criticized the Czech National Bank's policy today. Yes, some say that Hungary, as well as Poland, has raised interest, that is true, but no one has raised so dramatically. And these people took the mortgages, and I find it unfair. So I explained inflation that even for the individual goods that we import, inflation is different than for the goods that are exported and so on. And the apartments, of course. Energy prices, that's where we don't agree. We made it clear that VAT is the solution. And we can already see with inflation in December that negative inflation in electricity and gas is smaller in December than in November, that it is actually falling, and in January it will become so that the 21 percent may not be enough. That's why we also proposed the forgiveness of POZE, those renewable sources. I don't want to go back to that solar tunnel we're still paying 27 billion a year. So at energy prices, I'm sorry we didn't agree there. You came up with another model, let's see how it works. About the clerks. We need to figure out who these officials are. And we were saving. The former Minister of Finance reduced by 4,500 positions, empty seats of civil servants. State employees have 73,500 and, of course, it's a fight against the resorts where they guarded the places, they kept the money so they could use it for higher salaries. But it's not true that we don't spare. And I agree with you that salaries, and I'm glad that the salaries of soldiers, firemen, police officers, teachers, doctors, nurses have risen for us. We have an average salary of 37,000. And I am sorry that some companies, and of course most of them are our Czech companies, which are not able to pay 50,000, such as Škoda Auto or Bosch or banks, and even more. Yes, that is a certain dysbalance, but we still have the lowest unemployment in Europe. And I am so glad that in the government's programming statement, you have an opening to the labour market - yes, because here companies are still saying that there are no people; I've called the Association of Industry and the Chamber of Commerce x-times, so finally get the records out of the way. You keep saying you miss 300,000 people. Yes, indeed, our companies do not have people and, of course, it is necessary to fight against the various employers who employ Ukrajinec black on Schengen visas, which they receive in Poland. So, of course, that's the problem, you're criticizing it. I'm glad we could give the paramedics so much money that they deserved it, and we don't have a match there, either, because they're not officials. These are the people we need. And for example, we've come up to the firefighters x-times to get the numbers they need. There's firemen everywhere when there's floods, fires, tornadoes, accidents, everywhere! We need firefighters to have the prestige of America, September Eleven. So that's what it's all about, where we don't agree on it. Well, then, Prime Minister, you listed the tax brakes. Well, that's great! If I understand that, and the Yes and I movement, when I became Minister of Finance, I said, "I'll collect taxes and lower taxes." And we did. EET was 21 percent in the restaurant for everything, today is 10. EET brought 33 billion, a control report of 10 million - 33 billion EET, Minister, 33 billion, that can be documented. [[billions]] And we cut taxes. And the control reports, the scams, the carousels, that brought in tens of billions. And look at the VAT gap, that's the VAT hole, that's what they've always stolen from us in the past, mostly in fuel. So if the tax brake, and we've reduced taxes and collected those taxes, we support it, and I'll be glad if you don't raise taxes. Retirement reform, that's been mentioned since the revolution. We had a retirement committee, it was always more of a press conference, and we decided to give people money, pensions really. And if your reform is good, we will, of course, support it, I don't see... we certainly want fair pensions. Energy, Dukovany. Please, you can call a tender. You've stalled him, here we've been constantly discussing Russia, China, we're definitely rooting for and we'll support it, it's ready. We set it up for you. Freeway, please, the Minister of Transport just gets the money for what's ready, 200 kilometers you can open the motorways by 2025 and you still have 200 kilometers of first-class roads, various bypasses that are being prepared. And of course, we would like you to continue with those PPP projects that have succeeded in Havlíček here - a huge success! First PPP project. And if you succeeded in the Prague-Tábor 70 kilometers PPP project, it would be a blast! The Prague bypass hasn't started yet, the Prague bypass. I'm sure we'll support everything there. Well, digitalization, please, is what I was talking about, we just started it, it's got a system, it's got a chief executive, it's got a government agent, and as you go on, we're gonna be happy. So I don't want to talk here long, there are things where we don't agree. We think our country is in great shape. And most importantly, the deficit for 2021 and 2022, we know exactly where it is. After all, household savings have increased by 547 billion over the last two years. Čech have household savings of 3 353 billion! And I repeat again: Self-administration, municipalities, cities have 313 billion in accounts! The foal has 90 billion! He doesn't know what it's for if he doesn't invest. And the counties have 71 billion. So we can document exactly where the money is, unlike what happened to the deficits until 2013. So in short, I didn't want to perform anymore, but of course, the Prime Minister gave some opinion, I have a different opinion, in any case, for all the things that are positive for people, for companies, for our country, we will support. And you can count on us to be constructive opposition, as promised. We care about our country's prosperity, our people have had a good time, and I think that is a common goal, and I thank you for that, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u29	I do not see any other logged in, therefore I recall that according to § 85 para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the Government by name on a motion for trust. In order to adopt a resolution on the declaration of confidence to the Government, the consent of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. We can therefore proceed to this very act. I now ask the designated verifiers of this meeting, which are Member Stanislav Berkovec and Member Renáta Zajíčková, to take up positions at the rapporteur's table. First we proceed according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw up the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. The examination of tickets with the names of Members has been carried out. [[18.50 hours]] I was the first person to draw for Mr. Aleš Dufek. [[The noise in the hall.]] I remind - and please first of all calm - that according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be formulated by the Member 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." A different speech by the Member shall be regarded as a delay in voting. I ask that each of the Members who are called upon say their position loudly enough so that I may repeat them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies has expressed confidence in the government'. Now I will call you, and I beg you to speak. I therefore initiate the vote. Dufek Aleš: Proposition. Dvořák Jaroslav: Against the proposal. Exner Martin: Proposition. Faltýnek Jaroslav: Against the proposal. Farhan Kamal: Against the proposal. farský Jan: Pro pro proposition. - Excuse me if I'm not mistaken. He's not present. Fiala Petr: Proposition. Fiala Radim: Against the proposal. Fialová Eva: Against the proposal. Fifka Petr: For a proposal. Fischerová Romana: Against the proposal. flek Josef: For the design. Foldyna Jaroslav: Against the proposal. Fridrich Stanislav: Against the proposal. Gazdík Petr: For a proposal. Golasowský Pavla: For a proposal. Haas Karel: Proposition. Hájek Jiří: For the proposal. Hájek Martin: For the proposal. Hanzlíková Jana: Against the proposal. Havel Matěj Ondřej: For a proposal. Havlíček Karel: Against the proposal. Havránek Jiří: For a proposal. Helebrant Tomáš: Against the proposal. Heller Šimon: Proposition. Hendrych Igor: Against the proposal. Hofmann Jan: For the proposal. Horák Jiří: For a proposal. hrnčíř Jan: Against the proposal. Jáč Ivan: Against the proposal. Jakob Jan: Proposition. Janda Jakub: For the proposal. Janulík Miloslav: Against the proposal. Jílková Marie: For a proposal. Juchelka Aleš: Against the proposal. Jurečka Marian: For a proposal. Kaňkovský Vít: Pro proposition. Kasal David: Against the proposal. kašník Pavel: For a proposal. Kettner Zdeněk: Against the proposal. Klíma Pavel: For the proposal. Knechtová Lenka: Against the proposal. Kobza Jiří: Against the proposal. Kocmanová Klára: Proposition. Kohajda Michael: Proposition. Kohoutek Tomáš: Against the proposal. Kolář Ondřej: For a proposal. Collo-kolovratník Martin: Against the proposal. Koten Radek: absent, excused. Kott Josef: also absent, excused. Kovářová Věra: Proposition. King Václav: For a proposal. králíček Robert: Against the proposal. Karel: Proposition. Krutáková Jana: For a proposal. Kubíček Roman: Against the proposal. Kubík Jan: Against the proposal. Michal Kučera: For a proposal. kuchař Jan: Proposition. Kukla Martin: Against the proposal. Kupka Martin: Proposition. Lacina Jan: Proposition. Lang Hubert: Against the proposal. Langšádlová Helena: Proposition. Vladimíra Vladimira: Against the proposal. Letocha Petr: For a proposal. Lisová Martina: Proposition. Liška Petr: For a proposal. Lochman Ondřej: Proposition. Mádlová Ivana: Against the proposal. major Martin: Proposition. malý Taťána: Against the proposal. Maříková Karla: Against the proposal. Mašek Jiří: absent, excused. Metnar Lubomír: Against the proposal. Michálek Jakub: For a proposal. Mračková Vildumetzová Jana: Against the proposal. Müller Tomáš: For a proposal. Munzar Vojtěch: Proposition. [[19.00 hours]] Nacher Patrik: Against the proposal. Naiclerová Hana: excused, absent. Navrátil by Jiří: For the proposal. Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka: For a proposal. Novák Marek: Against the proposal. Nováková Nina: For the proposal. New Miloš: Proposition. Expert Monika: Against the design. Okamura Hayato: Proposition. Okamura Tomio: Against the proposal. Okleštěk Ladislav: Against the proposal. Olšáková Eliška: For a proposal. Opltová Michaela: Proposition. Outlier Renata: Against the proposal. Ožanová Zuzana: Against the proposal. Pastuchová Jana: Against the proposal. Pekarová Adamová Markéta: For the proposal. Peštová Berenika: Against the proposal. Petrtýl František: Against the proposal. Philipp Tom: Proposition. Pivoňka Vaňková Pavla: For the design. pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava: Against the proposal. Pošarová Marie: Against the proposal. Potůčková Lucie: For a proposal. Pražák David: Against the proposal. Quittová Petra: For a proposal. Rais Karel: Against the proposal. Austrian Vít: Proposition. Rataj Michael: Proposition. Ratiborský Michal: Against the proposal. Richter Jan: Against the proposal. [[I'm Richter.]] I'm sorry. Richter Jan. Richterová Olga: Proposition. He Rozvoral Radek: Against the proposal. Růžička Pavel: Against the proposal. ryba Drahoslav: Against the design. Sadovský Petr: Against the proposal. Salvetr Rudolf: For the design. Schillerová Alena: Against the proposal. The power of John: Against the design. For a proposal. Sládeček Karel: Against the proposal. slavík Jiří: For a proposal. Smetana Karel: For the design. Staněk Pavel: Excused, absent. Stanjura Zbyněk: Proposition. strýček Jiří: Against the proposal. Stržínek Robert: Against the proposal. Svoboda Bohuslav: For a proposal. Svoboda Pavel: For a proposal. Šafránková Lucie: Against the design. Šebelová Michaela: Proposition. Šimek David: For a proposal. špičák Julius: Against the design. Štefanová Iveta: Against the proposal. Štolpa David: Against the proposal. telek Róbert: For a proposal. Tesařík Antonín: For the design. tureček Karel: Against the proposal. Turek Libor: For a proposal. Urbanová Barbora: Proposition. Válek Vlastimil: For a proposal. Válková Helena: Against the proposal. Vích Radovan: Against the proposal. Vlček Lukáš: For a proposal. Voborská Milada: Pro pro proposition. Vojtko Viktor: Proposition. volný Jan: Against the proposal. Sauce Vít: For the design. Vondráček Radek: Against the proposal. vondrák Ivo: Against the proposal. Vrána Petr: Against the proposal. Excellent Mark: Proposition. Wenzl Lubomír: Against the proposal. Wenzl Milan: absent, excused. Zajíčková Renáta: For a proposal. Zborovskzborovský Miroslav: Pro pro proposition. zlínský Vladimír: Against the proposal. zuna Michal: Proposition. žáček Pavel: For a proposal. Ženíšek Marek: For a proposal. Adamec Ivan: Proposition. Adámková Věra: Against the proposal. Babiš Andrej: Against the proposal. Babišová Andrea: Against the proposal. Babka Ondřej: Against the proposal. Bačíková Jana: For a proposal. Balaš Vladimír: For a proposal. Balaštíková Margita: Against the proposal. Bartoš Ivan: Proposition. Bartošek Jan: Pro proposition. Bašta Jaroslav: Against the proposal. Bauer Jan: Proposition. Baxa Martin: Proposition. Beitl Petr: For a proposal. Bělica Josef: Against the design. Bělobrádek Pavel: For a proposal. [[19.10 hours]] Bělohlávková Romana: Pro pro proposition. Bělor Roman: Proposition. Benda Marek: Proposition. Bendl Petr: For a proposal. Benešík Ondřej: For a proposal. Berki Jan: Proposition. Berkovcová Jana: Against the proposal. Berkovec Stanislav: Against the proposal. Bernard Josef: For a proposal. Blaha Stanislav: For a proposal. Blažek Pavel: For a proposal. Brabec Richard: Against the proposal. Raided by Milan: Against the proposal. Brož Lubomír: Against the proposal. Bureš Jan: Proposition. Bžoch Jaroslav: Against the proposal. Carbol Jiří: Proposition. Cogan Josef: For a proposal. Černochová Jana: For a proposal. Černý Oldřich: Against the proposal. Decroix Eva: Proposition. Dostálová Klára: Against the proposal. Against Lenka proposal. Dubský Tomáš: Pro pro proposition. I ask whether all Members have actually been read, or are there any doubts about the course of the vote? I can't see. The vote is over. I ask the verifier to tell me what time they need now to secure the results of the vote. [[Twenty minutes.]] Twenty minutes, I'm interrupting our meeting for 20 minutes, that is, within 19.32 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the time limit needed to process the outcome of the vote has passed. I beg you to take your seats and rest. In the meantime, I will read that Mrs Voborská hereby cancels her apology from today's meeting at 18.45, which means that she has been present since then. I now request the withdrawal of designated verifiers and the notification of the result of the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u31	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that 193 Members and Members have taken part in the vote on government trust. The result of the vote is that 106 Members and Members voted against the proposal. 87 Members and Members voted against the proposal. I would like to inform you and the citizens of the Czech Republic at this point that right now confidence has been expressed to the Government of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u32	Chairman Fiala has asked me to speak. I note that the Chamber of Deputies has expressed confidence in the government, and I am giving it this word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, everything that should have been said has already been said here, and perhaps something more. But let me say one more sentence: On my behalf and on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, I thank you for expressing my confidence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-006-03-000-000.u34	I congratulate the government of Petr Fiala and, of course, wish her every success and happiness. I'm done discussing this point, and I'm interrupting the meeting until Friday, January 14th, 9:00 p.m. And I wish you, I dare say, good night, ladies and gentlemen.
