ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Dvořák will vote with replacement card number 31. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would now ask you to calm down. Yesterday, on 8 September 2022, Queen Alžběta II died. Please let us honor her memory for a minute of silence. [[The present rose and a minute of silence honored the memory of the late Queen Elizabeth II.]] Thank you. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Babišová Andrea all day - working reasons, Balaštíková Margita all day - working reasons, Bauer Jan all day - working reasons, Mr Bělica Josef all day - medical reasons, Bernard Josef all day - medical reasons, Blaha Stanislav whole day - working reasons, Brázdil Milan all day - working reasons, Burešš Jan full date - health reasons, Carbol whole day - Jiří day - working day - working day - working day, Foldyna Jaroslav Pavel day - Navrátil days, Gazdík Petr whole day - medical reasons, Golasowská Pavla from 12 hours - working days, Havel Matěj Ondřej whole Pastuchová Karel - Jana day - working days, Šimon Šimon whole working day - family reasons, Janulík Miloslav from 9 to 14 hours - working days, Štolpa David Wenzl Milan Tureček - working days - working days, Kašník Pavel vlček Lukáš day - working days, Kohoutek Tomáš Šimek working day - working days, Kolář Ondřej from 12.30 - working days, Krutáková Jana whole working day - family reasons - Karel day - Julius days, Naiclerová Michal whole Vrána day - Hana days - working Vondrák, Zuna Michal whole working day - Ivo days - working days, Kučera Ratiborský whole working days - working reasons, Kučražka whole working day - working day - working day - working days, Kuchař Jan Olšáková working day - working Eliška - working day - Nacher day - working days - working days - working days - working žáček - Mašek days, Mádlová Ivana Ivana from 11 hours. The members of the government apologize: Balaš Vladimír all day - working reasons, Černochová Jana all day - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna all day - working reasons, Jurečka Marian all day - working reasons - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan all day - foreign travel, Rakušan Vít all day - working reasons, Síkela Jozef all day - working reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk all day - working reasons and Šalomoun Michal all day working for working reasons. Mr. Vlček cancels his apology. Today's meeting would start with firmly ranked points from the third reading block. These are points: paragraph 106, House press 206, Government draft inland navigation law; paragraph 107, House press 73, Government bill on pharmaceuticals; paragraph 108, House press 167, Government bill on medical devices; Paragraph 109, House Press 168, Government Bill on Medical Devices Related; paragraph 110, House Press 215, Parliamentary Bill on Civil Service. I announce that paragraphs 111 and 113 of the approved programme, which are House prints 67 on Antarctica and 150, cultural goods, can be discussed at third reading. We would then continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. And now I'm asking if anyone is interested in changing the approved agenda? First of all, Mr. Andrej Babiš has applied in writing, and then... He prefers, yes, to President Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank my colleague Babiš for allowing the performance. I would like to make some changes to the program today, which I think should only lead to this - these are non-conflict points - that we end this week with dignity as possible and that we still have some points to discuss. I didn't quite understand Mrs. Vice-President if paragraphs 111 and 113 are proposed to be included in the third reading block. If that is not the case, I propose that points 111, Antarctica, in simple terms, and paragraph 113, import and export of cultural goods - in the case of point 111, Antarctica, House printing 67, in the case of point 113, entry and import of cultural goods, House printing 150, be included at the end of the third reading. Then we would continue with the House Press 216, which we discussed yesterday, and then we would include paragraphs 19 and 20 of the current meeting, which is the Government's proposal for a law on coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office, the House Press 218, in simple terms OLAF, and the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of a law on coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office, the House's press 219 - the accompanying law. [[9.10 hours]] If we were to finish all of this today, then we would probably be done with no more conflict points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was merely a statement that points 111 and 113 could be discussed. I understand you're proposing to include them at the end of the third reading. Then they would follow points 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u4	Then they would follow 216, 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u5	Yes, thank you. Now with priority rights, President Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u6	Hello, thank you for your word. Madam President, honourable Members, I propose to include a new item on the agenda of this meeting entitled How Babiš's post-November cartel was brought to trial as the first item in today's negotiations. I'm so glad the Minister of Justice is here, and maybe he'll last my speech to the end, because it'll be long, but it'll be pointless. There's gonna be names, there's gonna be facts, and I'm even quoting the Minister of Justice. So, at last, all those who said I belonged in prison came to see me. So, on Monday, as the Home Secretary Rakušan said, who threatened Mrs. Mračková Mrachka yesterday, that if she doesn't resign, she - I don't know how - will recall her. Yes, Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová, who had only one problem, and that she married in 2018 and that her husband had some contact. Of course, when I was at Prima this morning, they wouldn't let me talk. I was supposed to meet the Prime Minister twice, but he doesn't want to, so now he's got a separate show. So it's the first political process since the revolution, folks, the first political process since the revolution. But it's not about the trial. This is about who got me there. The trial is the result of a long-term effort to discredit and eliminate me from politics. It is evident that the upcoming process is behind the traditional party post-November cartel, which ruled here since November 1989, de facto until 2017 - because we were in the minority at the time - and unfortunately today it reigns again. What is this cartel? This is an informal power bike of traditional politicians, journalists, activists, lobbyists, officials, entrepreneurs and others who share the same interest: privatizing power, reigning calmly and promoting their business behind the scenes. Then why am I brought to justice? I'm being court-martialed because it's a political process, and it's supposed to be my discreditation and my removal from politics again. Maybe because everyone thinks I'm running for president. It was always the stork's nest before the elections - even in 2017, three weeks before the elections. Although the police knew perfectly that I was going to be an MP again and that they were going to release me again, and they put it, timing perfect. Basic facts first. The stork nest is a thing fifteen years old, a project that was evaluated as one of the best in its time has been approved. But then Mr. Bendl was the governor. Mrs. Langšádlová is a minister today, who also approved it, and has been controlled nine times - officials, auditors and during the time of the founder of the TOP 09, a symbol of corruption for me. Even he checked, even those who are screaming today that it's wrong. During the approval and control of the project and its implementation, no one questioned. The stork nest stands near Benešov. It's a place like this - people from all over the Republic go there because, of course, they've been listening since 2015, mainly from our media, it's a big problem. He employs 90 people. The company made over CZK 400 million in taxes and taxes to the Treasury. Moreover, she returned the $50 million subsidy that was formally involved, even though she was entitled to it. I note that there has never been a crown coming from the European Union to the Cape Nest, so neither the State nor the European Union has suffered any damage. But because of the persistent hysteria, the company simply decided to return the money even though it was entitled to it. I'm still here to make it clear that this was never about money, put another $50 million in charity. Of the eleven people who were originally accused in the case, we had two, yes, but the important thing is that although my prosecution and prosecution of Mrs Nagyová - by the way, that is our candidate for the Senate in Vysočina against Mr Vystrčil, a prominent representative of the post-November cartel, I hope that the citizens in Vysocina will show what they think about the cartel and the current government by voting for it - so what is the politicalization in? When Mr. Superintendent D.A. stopped it 30. 8. 2019, so Mr. Attorney General, a typical product of the post-November cartel - I can get to that point, who it is, but he's a person who, of course, is nominated by politicians, the government - he renewed the case so that everyone can still talk about it. Here the government and politicians of the five-calice still have a problem - and when we talk about the fact that there really is an organized crime in the government and Mr. Rakušan should have resigned by now - they always argue with the čapí's hnízdo. But what does that have to do with my political career, a 15-year-old thing? If I wasn't in politics, no one would ever have heard of it. And, of course, StB, I'll get to that, too. So on what grounds am I brought to justice? Based on a summary of imaginary, false or twisted claims and conclusions. The goal is to condemn me and make it impossible for me to pursue a successful political career. We have won eight elections - perhaps no one remembers - full of squares at our meetings when we go somewhere - yes, people are interested - and the high preferences of the ANO movement create panical fear among my opponents. To begin with, by politicizing this case, my opponents are trying to force the public and justice to claim that I have done something illegal. It is spicy that what my political competitors, journalists and activists claim about me has also taken a coin from the police and the prosecutor's office. The result was - and it is - and the Minister of Justice is no longer here, it is a pity - a false accusation followed by a false and false accusation. [[9.20 hours]] Traditional politicians still fail to understand that I have not gone into politics for money, but to help our country and citizens who have not been as lucky in their lives as I have. By the way, I helped people long before I joined politics, mainly through the Agrofert Foundation, which has helped the needed sum of 700 million in ten years and which is helping the most right now because desperate people in a situation where this government does nothing for them, they phone, they phone and they need help. So I don't do politics to be well, unlike those who want to destroy me. For them, it is the only way to achieve large money that they would not otherwise earn. Traditional politicians live in a world of interests. They thought I was gonna act the same way. That's how I remember when I criticized the Air Rescue tender, so former Prime Minister Sobotka asked me why I cared that we had Kapsch. And I say, please? We have a Kapsch, what does that mean? This is an incredible scandal. Yes, we interrupted the government because we were yelling at each other. I yelled at him because that's what it was, that's what it was. Remember the envoy. They were doing business together, and when I said that we didn't really deal with Kapsch, that Kapsch got it in some way, and if some parties fed there, I don't know anything about it, but that, of course, we wouldn't act like this and that we wouldn't want any benefits from a company that supposedly, not transparently, won the tender - and by the way, when we retended it, we saved a billion a year, so there was something about it. That's when the post-November cartel realized that I would never participate in their system, and on the contrary, I would try to break it, so it made me public enemy number one. Since my opponents logically couldn't catch anything from the time of my political engagement, in 2016, they came up with a conflict of interest and invented Lex Babiš on me, for whom all the parties in the House raised their hand and thought it would force me to leave politics. And if it doesn't work out, they've ordered a special-purpose prosecution in the Capi Nest case, which, of course, I'll come back to. So what's Lex Babiš? Well, that's exactly what Babiš does. It's interesting that no one has ever dealt with a conflict of interest here. Members, senators and today ministers in the government are doing business or transferring companies to wives, and no one cares. So, of course, it was exactly on Babiš. And in the meantime, they've played a lot of other cases that have gone to waste, for example, cursing companies to the financial administration. Totally fake. Do you still remember LTO here? The hundreds of billions stolen, Lorencová's blood oil, the murders, blew up the cars? Yes, it was always stolen from fuel taxes, yes, and the Financial Administration only did its duty to go after companies that don't want to pay taxes. As Minister of Finance, I have taken major measures against tax-stealing. So they made up the idea that we were kneeling them, which is nonsense. Nonsense! Crown bonds - koruna bonds, of course this is the thing that Minister Kalousek actually put forward, approved by Sobotka, the one who then attacked me because of the koruna bonds. After I had some secret files, that I supposedly had some - that's nonsense. When you go to meetings, you do a monitoring of what's in the media, and according to that, you have some information. That I was an agent of StB - a hundred times, a thousand times repeated lie, and I'm gonna read it here one more time, what I put on Facebook: A dirty repeated lie. We, former employees of foreign trade businesses, were terrorized by the aesthetics. We were being investigated. We were being investigated! But somebody needed it, they reminisce, yes. Of course, when I'm walking around, the five-calice ambassadors yell at me that I'm an aesthetic. That's a dirty lie! I won the trial three times. And it's interesting that the ten years of practice of all those who are illegally registered have been changed nine days before the House elections. So for ten years, the courts accepted it, and suddenly nine days before the elections, the Slovak Constitutional Court ruled that everyone who sued the Institute of National Memory for ten years sued the institution that they should have sued someone else, but they didn't say who. So it's a coincidence. I don't want to speculate who and how he arranged it, because I have no evidence of it, but, of course, Prague is small. After I allegedly had my son kidnapped in Crimea. Unbelievable crap! And that I was leaking information about the sale of the Bulgarian part of CEZ, that was also the media. And that I'm controlling the media, they put it back in Cernošice, where it's controlled by a post-November cartel. And then, before last year's election, Mr. Gazdík here claimed that I was responsible for fish poisoning in Bečva or that I was laundering money to buy real estate in France. Another nonsense. It's interesting that the Chairman of the Committee on Supervision of the Financial Analytical Office didn't want to call the commission before the elections, because FAO confirmed that the money was mine, that it was taxed and that I didn't launder any money. So another lie. And then, of course, today our opponents, or my opponents, are inventing that our government has deepened our energy dependence on Russia, are still repeating this. Unbelievable, but it's quite obvious that it's untrue, and now I'm responsible for expensive food. That's also some instruction from the consulting firm that once ran her Sobotka and Chovanec, and now they're back again these structures that deserved that OKD was a total fraudulent privatisation, and then the gentleman who bought it brought out 130 billion crowns of it and forgot to sell apartments to the miners for 40,000, and now they rent them for 12,000 a month. So that's the one-- that's all the lies. Some ministers lie that I know Radovan Krejčíř. I've never seen him before in my life. And Russia. During our reign, we became Russia's second most hostile country in the United States. Yes, we have expelled 100 Russian diplomats here, but of course, any lie is good, any pretext, any absurdity. Traditional parties have always been able to cooperate when it comes to their common business and interests, let us remember the opposition treaty. So no wonder they found common ground in 2016 when ČSSD and TOP 09 came up with a conflict of interest law or Lex Babiš. Before that, they didn't deal with the confrontation, and of course they made it custom-made in such a way that constitutional lawyers also twisted their minds. And when I fulfilled all the businesses of the new Czech law, they brought this invention of conflict of interest to Brussels. I've been constantly reported, of course, by the pirát, because they have one psychopath who has given up all his employers all his life and also the Czech Republic. That's why we lost 800 million. And then those related auditors came because the gentleman had good contacts there, and they began to interpret our laws purposefully and contrary to the Czech case law. So the toast line when they came - and they were among the auditors and the Čech - they said: this is a conflict of interest. And when the officials explained to them that it didn't match the date, they said, "It's okay, it's not innovation." Of course, all purposeful things. And then they forced Czech officials to turn 180 degrees and interpret the practice against the interests of their own country, yes. [[9.30 hours]] The current garniture in, as I would say, the atmosphere of hatred of Babiš goes against its own country. The Czech Republic has successfully sued the European Commission in the past because the European Commission - what does it do? She is only looking for mistakes so she doesn't have to give money to the Czech Republic, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly won the courts. It won in such a way that the court decided that the European Commission was wrong. And now it is not done because some 80 million subsidies for agriculture, where Agrofert has a million, so the Minister of Agriculture decided not to fight for the Czech interests, that he would not try to sue for the money, although, of course, officials would tell him that we would be successful. My entire alleged conflict of interest for years then continued to support the political nonprofit, I say, corrupt nonprofit, Transparency International, which, of course, bends its principles according to who is sponsoring it. She even filed a complaint against me on suspicion of committing a misdemeanor against the city office in Cernošice, there's that... that's where the cop cartel controls it, because I'm in conflict of interest and I'm still in control of Agrofert and Mafra. Yeah, that's what I saw controlling her. The comment last Saturday, Mr. Kolář, also attacked Mrs. Vildumetzová. After three years of constant dismissal, the accusations of these smug activists were definitively dismissed last December. And then came the Julius Šuman affair, where I was accused of allegedly influencing the Financial Administration and the FAO. It's interesting that I was the first finance minister who didn't have a problem with it, and I agreed to let the FAO check the House. The committee was founded for me. Before that, an unnamed finance minister went there and told the FAÚ who to deal with. I won't say names, but the two sides are in today's coalition. I'm sure some of them know what I'm talking about. So they made up the idea that I was kneeling to the competition. Total nonsense. The financial administration only controlled companies that robbed the state of taxes, and they were always fuel. Always. Control reports that basically put tens in the budget, maybe hundreds of billions, yes, that pissed everyone off. The media didn't even stop at the fact that a professional listening technique was deployed against the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic and probably abused the secret services. On the contrary, she enjoyed quoting each context of the torn sentences. The editor, the famous editor, the pro-government editor, I don't know who she's for now, she's still playing me with that nonsense, yes, the sentences out of context, and they quote. But when Prime Minister Sobotka's emails leaked to the public, where we read how it works in the ČSSD, it was: No, that's not what it says, that's not what we're talking about. That's what everybody kept quiet about. Three quarters of a year before the 2017 elections, the cartel set me up with a koruna bond case. The law, which he passed as Minister of Finance Kalousek, voted for by Mr Sobotka and which was used by thousands of companies including - according to the press - Czech Television. First the reporters came up with the fact that I may have cut the tax. And when I justified the bonds, they accused me of not having enough money to buy them. I am the only politician in this country who published all his tax returns from 1996 to 2016, yes, 20 years. I posted them all. I don't know why... For example, the government wouldn't do that or politicians. Some didn't even give their property confessions. And what happened? A criminal complaint followed, of course anonymous, of course, of course. My explanation wasn't enough, bonds at 6%, let's remember the worst governor in this country's history, Mr Rusnok, the basic rate of 7.5 percent. He's here destroying young families and households, mortgages. And where's his inflation, how did he fight for it? Well, of course it's stupid and it's not working. This is not demand inflation, as the Prime Minister keeps trying to repeat. That's how it was. Sobotka kicked me out of the government, and what's the result? In October 2018, the police postponed the case because it was not suspected of a criminal offence. Plus, they started questioning the revenue. In doing so, I submitted two audit reports certifying that I actually had revenue as well. Then there was an affair, other things, another criminal complaint. [[unintelligible]] Sobotka finally got rid of me at the time, but the growing preference of the YES post-November cartel was three weeks before the elections to the House, in September 2017, and that is what I was talking about, weakening carefully timed criminal prosecutions for Chapi's čapí, which I can still get to. Yes, exactly, exactly. The police knew well that after the election I would be a Member again, but the charge came three weeks before the election because they thought it would affect the elections in some way. They didn't do any work, so it was clearly a political decision, because a practical and pragmatic decision would be to wait after the election and then deal with it. The attacks didn't stop even when the ANO movement assembled the government. In November 2018, two mafia journalists illegally infiltrated a private apartment building in Geneva, Switzerland, violated Swiss laws and secretly filmed my son Andrej. Although they knew about his condition, they confirmed him in his conspiracy fantasies of alleged kidnapping in Crimea. After more than three years, and someone keeps saying that, in January 2022, prosecutors and policemen postponed the case with no kidnapping. Last year, before the election, my son didn't want to exploit the pro-government server, the biggest cesspool, the journalistic cesspool that exists in this country, Forum24, the psychopath who even gave money to my son to go against me. He was used before the election at our meeting. That's what hyenas are like, hyenas like that! And imagine that this cesspool Forum24 TOP 09 has a discounted subscription. They can order cheap, the lies. It would be interesting to know who Forum24 has the money from and what he lives on, wouldn't it? I guess we can imagine that, so a five-caliber loudmouth. And, of course, government politicians didn't want to take advantage of my son - I wouldn't wish it on anyone if you had kids, what that means. This post-November cartel has destroyed the lives of Protopopová as well. She had the bad luck that she was on duty when they brought my son to NUDZ. They destroyed her, too, even though she had great psychiatric reform so people wouldn't be in Bohnice, but to take care of people with mental problems in the field. They destroyed her, too, just like Nagyová, who's the main defendant because she didn't do anything. She didn't do anything, and the kids are asking her. Mommy, why are you in court? She got divorced, of course, and everything. He doesn't care about anything. [[9.40 hours]] Five days last year's election, the cartel started another case. Pandora Papers, five days, foreign influence, Mrs. Holcová. And where are the three hundred names that Mrs. Holcová promised that she was so active in Slovakia? Who ordered this place five days before the election? Why didn't the FAÚ just say it was okay? And I was accused of laundering money to buy real estate in France! And that famous editor in the final debate before the Czech Television elections even told me live - yes, pro-government Czech TV, she helped the five-calice most, and she's doing it today - that I already knew in 2009 that I was going to be a politician - that's incredible, incredible, she says that I knew it, ad absurdum - and that I should have laundered money. Of course it's nonsense. Of course, it's nonsense, and the money I gave there as a loan, because it was time to get the loan, of course, to get it back. But the TOP 09 said there would be no FAO oversight committee, so it was clear after the election that there was no problem with the origin of the money. And those names of politicians or even some commentators -- let's remember Panama Papers, not Pandora Papers, how many Twitter hats there are on the list, but that's not what we're talking about. So, of course, nothing was released, it was played in the car because Babiš succeeded in shutting himself out of the government. And the fact that the case revived the media last month because of reports in the French press - it is interesting that they published that something is supposedly being investigated in February. But that's what you do, you know, in the media, that you make some new case to beat it, right? Well, organized crime, dozimetr. That was a need to get back into the system, the mansion. It's not a mansion, it's never been, it's called a chateau, it's a castle, but it wasn't a mansion. So that's what this is about, and that was just a desperate attempt to distract us from the scandals of the current government coalition. All these constructed cases, charges and criminal charges were accompanied by systematic pressure from various associations, which still function as an extended hand of traditional parties. In addition to Transparency International mainly activists from the Million Moments, I call the Million Moments of Hate. When we were in the Vodňany, Mr. Minář came back, he'd been knocking himself out again, the 4 million that went missing, he'd probably be getting some gifts now, and they'd be screaming at the court on Monday that Babiš belongs in prison. A million moments of hate, that's gonna be a big deal, that's where all the reporters from all over the world are gonna come. And when Babiš puts an ad on čau, guys!, left-wing loyal The Guardian wrote that this Babiš is weird and why he put an ad on it. Well, Babiš put an ad on čau, guys! What's wrong with the fact that it said "Do you believe the media"? That's the question. That's the question, if he trusts people, that's nothing to do with it. You need to support the media, adverts, right? There's gonna be an election, so now they're gonna have a harvest. What's wrong with that? The fact that Pro-government Blesk rejected it or the diary, of course, that's their strategy. So, of course, these activists who knocked themselves out now went to our meetings. Mr. Minář in the Vodňany came up with some chick or doughnut, wanted to take a picture with me. Guess he's got nothing left to do. So they're always obsessed with fear of democracy when it comes to five-calice, of course, but even organized crime in the government doesn't bother them, that's obvious. These activists have organized over 30 demonstrations against me, even now that I am in opposition, but not once because of the scandals of the five-calice. Like the activists at home, the MEPs, the fifth column of traditional parties, put pressure on me in Brussels and harmed me and the Czech Republic abroad. Our parents told Babiš there so that the foreign press could publish it and the Czech press could publish it again. One crew! This, of course, suited my critics in Brussels, and I did mind them, because I acted as a proud, sovereign Czech Prime Minister who fights for the interests of the Czech Republic - yes, that is the place, the European Council, where the Prime Minister took a minister, Bek, I don't know what for. That's where he's supposed to talk. That's where he's supposed to fight. Why hasn't he already called an extraordinary European Council to abolish emission allowances and other things? Why do we let officials - and Ursula von den Leyen is a clerk, the European Commission is a clerk, nobody voted for them - and we have always said at the European Council that presidents and prime ministers should decide Europe, not the President of the European Commission. When the Polish Prime Minister says that emission allowances need to be cancelled, I said it x-times and wrote it, so Mrs Ursula - I like her, she's fine - she says: What she says, we disagree. So who's in charge of Europe? Well, yeah, it looks like they're the bosses of those who have money, and then they're blackmailing some governments. Some governments, too. Interesting that Poland is no longer the black sheep of Europe, they are leaders. That's changed, too, and you know why. What was in Brussels, that's where Mrs Hohlmeier got it, her entire career is accompanied by corruption scandals. Unbelievable! Even in the case of covid, they were doing some work on some medical aids, when somebody bought millions of euros of commission. The lady came here, she interviewed the media against Babiš, and now, of course, it suits them, and I, of course, in Brussels, pissed them off, illegal migration. Yes, Viktor Orbán built a fence, Rakušan says, even though we have hundreds of Syřan walking around the Zlin region and transiting to Germany, and the Němec say. Please stop it - he doesn't care. He says, "No, I don't mind, illegal migrants." We fought against illegal migration. They are not Ukrajinec, they are migrants who pay thousands of euros to their smugglers. I was on the Hungarian border, we sent over 50 of our police officers, who detained up to 6,000 illegal migrants, tens of thousands of them. On the other hand, the car smugglers, German, Austrian and Czech plates were waiting. The top of everything was when our police officer told me that he arrested a smuggler - Čech from his own village! Unbelievable story. Yes, that's the illegal migration and the book Share it before it's banned, starting with the sentence: 28. 6. 2018 At 4:00 a.m., Viktor Orbán and Vé 4 stopped it. They stopped. Well, so the European Parliament - now concentrate, that's incredible - that I minded, the core and the low-emission source, that was hours of fighting for a low-emission source. The Prime Minister is showing it as his work today, of course it's not true. So what does the European Parliament say? The European Parliament has adopted a resolution, and now listen carefully, where it says that it welcomes the renewal of the investigation of the Czech Prime Minister in connection with his participation in the Chapi Nest project. Do you understand that? By the way, the European Parliament, which costs us EUR 2 billion, which is based in three places for nothing, is still moving somewhere - Luxembourg, Strasbourg, Brussels - EUR 2 billion, that is CZK 50 billion, says it welcomes the renewal of the Czech Prime Minister's investigation! And that is the work of our... those Members who are still talking - I will not even name him, the desperate one who once fought and represented the bastards, those who robbed people, the person who presented Okamur with a business plan, just look at the videos, can be traced - so these in the European Parliament arranged for the European Parliament to welcome the investigation of the Czech Prime Minister. Unbelievable! Unbelievable! [[9.50 hours]] So now to čapí's nest, artificially fed, 15-year-old case, which, moreover, has nothing to do with my involvement in politics. It's still the absurdity of the cartel saying, "Babiš, you have a problem." The imaginary stork's nest, the invented StB. And what are you accusing me of since 2013? From the moment I became the finance minister who had the best results, the surplus budget? I borrowed it for a negative coupon. What's wrong with me? Anyway, because it doesn't exist. I've been working for free since I joined politics! And I work even harder than I do for myself, for my own company. So they have nothing but these two things, and all these attempts to discredit me have ended, nothing, nothing, nothing! Just the Čapák, that's all they did. Why? I'll get to that, of course. So it doesn't concern political action, yes, but of course the five-calice still says, no, the Home Secretary says, Andrea - why does he call me Andrea as? - It's time. Mrs Pekarová says I belong in prison. I'll quote it here, it's their democratic principles! That's the attitude. Or is it a folk trial? Or what is it? Well, is that the new totalitarianism... or what is it? Nobody would have heard of the čapí's nest if I hadn't started stepping on the heels of a post-November cartel. Let's get everyone out there and check it out! It's for people! Nobody's screwed up, nobody's ever made a profit, and families and kids are excited. Enthusiastic and it didn't cost anything. So it's a case that's been stopped and reopened under pressure, and it couldn't have ended because it would have been a huge delusion of the state's attorney's system, including the Attorney General. Yes, it was he who restored my prosecution, the normal D.A.'s supervisory stopped it. The police have been handling the matter since the end of 2015. In 2017, the European Commission joined the case through OLAF. I've heard here that Mr. Benda... will be some point with Olaf. Please see what OLAF is, what corruption scandals there were, and who decides who's in Olaf. And I don't understand why they came here when Europe didn't give a dime to the subsidy, and no one did, and then it came back. And Olaf, of course, came here to politicize it. So, as can be seen from the full file of OLAF based in the criminal file, OLAF officials' approach has not only been unprofessional but, above all, has been biased from the outset. In the final report of 2018, OLAF came to the conclusion that the Chapi Nest farm was to be linked to Agrofert through my person and my family, which is of course nonsense, in a situation where OLAF had heard a number of people, but had completely passed away from me and my family, and to the subsidy granted under the 2008 rules - listen well, according to the 2008 rules, which was almost none, because it was at the beginning - it applied the interpretation of the rules of 2015. And as explained to me, it was intended to be the definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise issued by the European Commission in the form of a handbook. So the European Commission issued a manual in 2015 on how to define a small, medium-sized enterprise, and now OLAF comes in and says it was wrong. And what is incredible is that OLAF, particularly in cooperation with the Czech police, carried out relatively extensive evidence in the circle. In the justification for its conclusions, the police authority is strongly based on OLAF's conclusions and OLAF's final report takes over a number of conclusions from the police authority, so that at least on paper both managed to successfully distort reality and applicable rules. OLAF wrote something, the police copied it, and then what the OLAF police copied, Olaf wrote again, so they wrote it to each other, and of course it was all a lie. In any event, the request for my extradition to the House for criminal prosecution did not arrive until August 10, 2017. My extradition at my request, because I am convinced that I have done nothing criminal or illegal, has been done by the Board of House 6. 9. 2017. Police subsequently launched a criminal prosecution of 11 people, including myself, on September 29, 2017, and police did so three weeks before the elections, which is what I was talking about. Is that a coincidence? Well, of course it's not a coincidence. This was an entirely purposeful meeting, because it was clear to the police authority that the criminal proceedings would not be de facto conducted, because in just three weeks there were elections. On their basis, it was decided whether to obtain a parliamentary mandate. Everything was very clear from open sources, including the police and the prosecutor, that I would defend the Member's mandate after the elections, thereby regaining immunity and returning everything to the beginning. Probably, therefore, the law enforcement authorities have no longer carried out other acts. From this point of view, no one can stand the argument that the police had to act. She didn't have to, she didn't. It was a political decision. They could have waited. I was meaninglessly labeled by the police as the so-called organizer of the alleged crime and, according to the police, I had all the steps of all the co-indicted consciously and fully aware of all the circumstances organized and managed. Of course it's nonsense. However, neither the police authority in the request at the time nor in the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution was able to describe exactly how such organisation and proceedings were to take place. Thus, the very foundations of the construction of the alleged crime invented by the police did not make sense from the outset and contradicted the applicable criminal legislation. These fundamental flaws in the description of the act were pointed out by me and my defense attorney both during the hearing before the mandate and immune committee, and especially during the entire criminal proceedings, but unfortunately in vain, we did not receive redress. Subsequently, on 30 April 2018, the order of the supervising prosecutor Šaroch to repeal the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution, i.e. to stop the prosecution in a total of four persons. This Decision also applied to Ing Members. Jaroslav Faltýnek, who was released to prosecute the Chamber of Deputies just twice before. The extent of relevance of the then police of the Czech Republic's request for extradition to criminal prosecution of the Member and Faltýnek states that his prosecution as well as the prosecution of three other persons was, in effect, abolished as unfounded by the prosecutor's return. Although he did not lift the prosecution of the remaining seven accused supervisory prosecutor Šaroch's complaint, at least in his resolution at the time, he called the allegations of false data in the request for a subsidy in the form of economic data basically nonsensical. The mere fact that Farma Čapí nest's false qualification as a small enterprise in the application for a subsidy remained the basis of the charge. Of course it's nonsense. The criminal proceedings subsequently continued with only seven persons, and imagine this, in the natural description of the act, so that the police continued to blame me for organising the crime and the four persons who were no longer prosecuted or their actions were not found to be criminal. I was still blamed for having had these four persons for such an act, which was no longer considered criminal, instructing and driving. Another absurdity of the prosecution. This apparent incorrectness and unsubstantiated evidence has not only been corrected, but, on the contrary, continued to deepen in the course of the criminal proceedings. [[10.00 hours]] In his resolution, the supervisory prosecutor stated that the offence, as repeatedly described by the police in its requests to the Chamber of Deputies, and above all in the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution, could never happen - you can hear - because Farma Čapí nest met the conditions of a small enterprise at a decisive time. One more time: 30. 8. 2019 Attorney General says: Nothing happened, everything's fine... Well, then what happened? Then a representative of the P.O.D. cartel came in. This resolution of the supervisory prosecutor then for the next four months the Supreme Prosecutor reviewed it with his resolution of 4. 12 2019 partially canceled. So the nominator of the post-November cartel, Attorney General Zeman, unlike the SA Šaroch's supervisor, canceled his decision and let Mrs. Nagyová and I continue to be prosecuted. Mr Zeman's decision in question is legally unqualified, purposeful and politically motivated. It is also necessary to recall the circumstances immediately preceding this Decision. The Supreme Attorney did so not only under the pressure of the activist groups supporting the opposition at the time immediately after the massive demonstrations at Letná in November 2019, and in decision-making there was media pressure - of course the cartel, journalists, commentators, Babiš closed, accused, destroyed - the fear of a crowd that could rise up against the then state's highest prosecutor, just as it happened to Dr. Šaroch. He was publically chanted before the prosecution was stopped -- yeah, when you shut down Babiš, so you were chanted -- and then after the decision to stop the prosecution, because there was no evidence, and Babiš did nothing, he was medialy demoted, and he was the target of many political media attacks in relation to his person. Yes, they pushed him from all sides. And now it's unbelievable. Another fact is that the Supreme Attorney's decision, although extensive, was entirely purposeful, wrong, and politically motivated, and now listen carefully. Part of the resolution, where the Supreme Attorney in the assessment of the legality of the sale of the shares of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, later the Farm of Čapí Nest, committed a gross purposely misinterpretation of the provisions of Section 196a of the Commercial Code at the time when it wrongly concluded that the purchase price of the shares of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov was to be determined by an expert opinion of an expert appointed by the court. That's not true. The Supreme Attorney made the mistake of a second-year law firm student when applying this resolution. All right, you hear, the Attorney General here - you can discuss this if it's a purpose - made a mistake that a second-year law firm student wouldn't have made because Section 196a should only apply if the value of the transferred shares exceeded 10 percent of the seller's core capital, i.e. ZZN Pelhřimov, which was 131 877 thousand. However, the Supreme Prosecutor used, either by mistake or intentionally, the amount of the core capital of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, which was CZK 2 million in his calculation. By this misconception and misdefining the relevant markets, he justified the termination of the prosecution and returned the matter to the police for investigation, and that is why I will stand before the court on Monday. Yes, it's a political process, this was a political decision, because the political cartel, the post-November cartel, needed the stork's nest to continue, and we're still hearing about it - what, six years, seven years? And once again, the one who did it, and then comes the political nominee, Mr. Attorney General. That is why I believe this is a politically motivated prosecution. We can take a trip to monitor the Attorney General. I'm not gonna read it to you, it's for an hour. "The Supreme Attorney Pavel Zeman has decided on complaints from the players in the Nagyová case and explained why he has definitively abolished the prosecution of three ODS ex-members," for example. Prosecutor Zeman to Opencard - that was the tunnel: "I have no news of serious errors," he says. And then there's the paper where Mr. Attorney General appeared as the nominee for former Minister Pospíšil. He's in the dozimetr case, but he's still running, and Mr. Pospíšil is the product of which godfather of Pilsen? You can read all that. Or you can read how Mr. Attorney General privately interrogated himself for his friend, and at the same time accused his office of a criminal case in which he had a known business interest. And Mr. Attorney General, when a rigged audit report came from the European Commission, the Moravec, one of the anti-Babish, said, "Well, maybe it's some kind of felony, but he didn't know anything about it. So this guy decided that I was still being prosecuted, yes. That's why it's a political trial or prosecution. I firmly hope that the court will decide impartially that I will get the right to defend myself and that it will not succumb to various pressures, because I have no doubt that a million moments of hatred will be there on the street screaming that Babiš belongs in prison, yet they are shouting in the squares. Unbelievable. Whether this completely banal error of the Supreme Prosecutor occurred by gross misunderstand of the provision at issue by mistake or by mistake because of the similarity of the name of the companies or by deliberate distortion of facts is not so substantial. Neither of these should happen at the level of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, and above all, this tells many about the overall quality of the Supreme Prosecutor's resolution. However, the biggest criminal nonsense, in addition to the purpose of twisting the definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise established by the Supreme Prosecutor's resolution, is that Dr Šaroch's Supreme Prosecutor's resolution on the suspension of criminal prosecution was only partially annulled, only in relation to Ing. The Nagyová and my person. The criminal prosecution of five other co-conspirators has finally been stopped. On the basis of a renewed prosecution, only two of the originally eleven defendants remained in the case of the Cape Nest - Ing. Nagyová and I were supposed to be the organizer, then I was the helper again, so any minute now, something. However, the reality of organizing can only be fulfilled if there are at least three perpetrators, so I don't know who I should have organized when only Ing was prosecuted. Nagyová, so I guess no one, if at least three. So that's another absurdity of the prosecution. In the end, it ended with me being accused of the lowest form of participation, so if some ministers are talking about it, they should at least know. By the way, I was fascinated by this case, which also fascinated me - that's how the pirát went, and one psychopathic anti-babish, MP Michálek, was the one who urinated on the wall of the French ambassador - went straight to the file. He went directly to the file from his post to influence it in some way. It's unbelievable, really unbelievable. So I consider it absurd and eye-to-eye, when after six years of intensive investigation, I became the main organizer of the 11-member group, the only helper of Ing. The Nagyová. I believe that it was the political reasons and the media pressure that led to the prosecution of myself and Mrs Nagyová. He did so despite the fact that in 2019 he decided to stop the prosecution. Although nothing has changed in evidence since then, he has now decided to press charges. That is why the prosecution is based on assumptions, unsubstantiated hypotheses, purposeful misrepresentation, absolute lack of evidence, and, above all, on the violent denial of the previous views of the prosecutor himself on the very critical issue of relevant markets. And with me, of course, there's Mrs. Nagyová, who had the bad luck that Babiš went into politics because that's the main reason. Yes, honest, brave, they ruined her life. [[10.10 hours]] So the question is, why State's Attorney Šaroch turned 180 degrees and completely denied his conclusions made in 2019. I think that's a question every judge must ask himself, not just me. I cannot resist the impression that this fictional case is intended to affect the course of the upcoming elections not only of the municipal and senate this month, but potentially also of the presidential - yes, they all think I will run for president - of course, also of the presidential, if I make a decision and if the movement nominates me. But that's not on the agenda right now. Or is someone convinced that I wanted to run, and that's why the trial had to happen? And it's all happening under the stormy clapping and vehement support of a large proportion of journalists. Of course, we'll see about that on Monday. This will be the process of the century! You're lying! The politicalisation of this process and the pressure on the judicial system cannot be resisted with regard to the expression of constitutional officials and politicians. For example, President of the Chamber of Deputies, Pekarová Adamová, through social networks and her media performances, puts pressure on the statement that I am robbing the state that the case of the Chapi Nest is an organized crime and that I belong in prison, says Mrs Pekarová. September 29, 2021, a week before the election, she said: "I think Andrej Babiš simply belongs in prison. " Okay, you're hearing me. The moment there's an eight-year investigation into a case that's crystal clear, it's pretty simple. Now we're talking about you just separating a company from your big holding company to get subsidies, so you're acting like you're stealing from the other guys who pay their taxes. And the fact that it's taking so long is also another proof of subjugating this state to its advantage, unfortunately, even the files that should be completely independent. So I conquered the state and the files, and that's why I'm in court. Unbelievable. And then, of course, we have the head of organized crime. Yeah, that's completely absurd, where the behaviour of Home Secretary Vít Rakušan, who posted on his social networks a video of him standing on the roof of the Ministry of the Interior, holding a calendar and pointing to the date of September 12th - Monday - 2022 and literally quoting: "Andrea, it's time." I don't know why he calls me Andrea, I never spoke to him, and the Home Secretary says that. [[with laughter]] And underneath it is the police and the system and the government, so "Andrea is the time," says the minister. I'm asking why it's still there when the evidence that it's part of organized crime, the whole STAN movement, is very clear. Not to mention that I had nothing to do with organized crime, and I have shown Mr. Rakušan's picture to Mr. Hlubuček xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Yes, in a live case. From his position as Minister of the Interior, he clearly declares his position on me and thus affects the activities of law enforcement authorities. When Marie Benešová became Minister of Justice, political activists organized huge demonstrations against her. Remember? Giant demonstrations because they were supposedly afraid of interfering with criminal and judicial proceedings. But when the Home Secretary intervenes in court proceedings, they are wonderfully quiet. So what I'm asking is, I don't get the presumption of innocence? Isn't it? And last but not least, I would like to mention the remarks of the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek, who is not here... [[The Minister is present.]] ...is here, who stated at the press conference on 23 August 2022 that the greatest pressure on the work of judges and prosecutors is not by politicians, but by the Internet and the media. I quote: "To blame politics today according to Blažek is not a sign of the courage of a prosecutor or a policeman, because everyone, journalists, Members from the other political party, will applaud you in the media. The courage now manifests itself in the case of judges and prosecutors, in particular by not being subject to media pressure and judging according to the law." So I firmly believe that the court will judge by the law, by the evidence and by the truth. Mr Blažek goes on to say: "We all know here that they are mostly under pressure not only to condemn the politician but also the suspect, because that is what the media expect. " Yes, the media. Yesterday at the press conference, they didn't ask us about our 28 points of what we wanted to do for people, but that's where our colleague Vildumetzová Mračková was terrorized. This shit is unbelievable, really. So they expect the media, maybe even the TV people, yes, yes, they yell in the square: Babiš belongs in prison. Unbelievable. So I agree with the Minister of Justice. He's back there, I agree with you, Minister. He can't hear me, it's okay that it's true. Whether you want it or not, there is pressure, especially with regard to politicians. Then it just depends whether you like it or not. It is a fact that there is a political demand for my condemnation, even from politicians operating on the highest levels of politics, that is what I was talking about. That's why I'm convinced that this is a political process, and I have no doubt that a five-calice instead of telling us that it's going to put electricity on 1,500 kroner per megawatt, so it's going to say, well, this Babiš, you see him, that's terrible. So they're gonna say it, no, everybody's looking forward to it, but I'm looking forward to it, too. That is why I say that this is a political process and that in this context my right to a fair trial is violated. Now I have monitoring of what they said: Zdechovský, 30. 7. "Why don't the Rath and the Babiš sit in jail?" Zdechovský: "Someone gets arrested for stealing buns, someone steals $50 million, and nothing happens to him. In Germany, convicted con men end up in prison." May 19, 2021. November 11th: "He doesn't want to go to prison." 20 November 2021: "The candidate must not go to jail." 30. 3. 2022: "It could be five to ten years in prison." Justice is on the fritz, here's the folk judge Zdechovský. That's the guy who represented the bastards and presented Okamur's business plan. He's on TV every day, he understands everything. He's the one who pissed off Hohlmeier, the corrupt German politician, against me and the media interviewed her. And then here we have Markéta Pekarová Adamová, 24. 8. 2021: "He wants to be in politics so he doesn't end up in prison, says the President, the third highest constitutional official." 7. 9. 2021: "His goal is to avoid prisons where they belong, says Mrs Pekarová." 3. 10. 2021: "Pandora Papers, wants to avoid prison, laundered money, says Mrs Pekarová." 6. 10. 2021: "Pandora Papers, practice the words of prison." 8. 10. 2021 says Pekarová Adamová: "Andrej Babiš belongs in prison. " Amazing. Marek Ženíšek, until now I don't even know what it is or TOP or STAN... TOP, come on, that's one crew. 17. 12. "The worst thing is that Malá" - colleague Malá - "about closing AB had to say probably her daughter, says Mr. Ženíšek." Mr. Ženíšek says 1. 8. 2021: "In order not to go to prison, Andrej Babiš will sacrifice everything." 13. 9. 2021: "He would also contact the Marťan as Paroubek" - I don't know them - "to avoid going to prison, says Ženíšek." That's an expression. Mr. Bartoš, the one who wrote to me that he wanted to be Mayor of Prague, and Anti-Baby Bastlová knows that because we have a text message. What Mr. Bartoš 2 says. 9. I happened to have a birthday, but it doesn't matter: "If Andrej Babiš wasn't Prime Minister, he'd already be sitting down! says Mr. Bartoš." Amazing, isn't it? [[10.20 hours]] [[It's true!]] Sure. [[The speaker laughs.]] Michálek, that's him. That's the psychopath who went into the file. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] A sick man with an anti-Babish. [[Applause from the left, banging on the right.]] He needs treatment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u7	Prime Minister Babiš, I'd like to ask you if you address... Sorry to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u8	Don't let him talk to me. Don't let that psycho talk to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u9	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt you, but I would like you to either address your colleagues through me and a little lessen the terms you use. After all, we are on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u10	I'd like you, Madam President, to make sure that the MP doesn't talk to me, okay? Do me a favor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u11	Yes, you're right about that. President Michálek should not shout at you, and he will certainly take it to heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u12	Yeah, okay. Thank you, great. Yes. So Petr Gazdík, 28. 9: "One reason why Andrej Babiš belongs behind bars, says Petr Gazdík. " He's the one who was investigating Bečva, who set up an organized crime with Polčák - the STAN movement. So, et cetera, so here's the deal. These are statements, those are the Democrats who honor the presumption of innocence. The content of the prosecution. According to the prosecution, I was deliberately and intentionally to help Nagyová commit the act of subsidy fraud by creating conditions for Čapí's farm nest to appear on the outside to meet the criteria of the beneficiary, as I was to be aware, according to the prosecution, that, through and through my family members and Mr Martin Herodes, under the subsidy conditions, the company of the Čapí Nest will be linked to the company of Agrofert and that the company of the Čapí Nest wanted to operate on the same relevant markets and on the neighbouring market as some companies in Agrofert. [[si]] Total nonsense and bullshit. I completely reject this structure as untrue, unrealistic, and completely unsubstantiated. The prosecution claims that in 2007, I had complete knowledge of the conditions of the subsidy challenge, including details such as the linking of the undertaking through natural persons due to the operation of the undertaking on the same relevant markets. This claim is completely false, and according to my attorney, there is no evidence for such a thesis of the prosecution. The real, true reality is very simple. My only contact with the topic of the subsidy was very short and superficial, and I do not remember exactly when it was, but sometime at the end of 2007 or early 2008, when I learned from Mrs Nagyová that some subsidy had been made for the farm project and I referred it to my family members who had taken over the farm project at that time. This was the only information on the subsidy I had in December 2007 or January 2008. Therefore, I expressly and totally and absolutely rule out the fact that I would know the terms of the grant challenge, let alone in detail. I rule out absolutely and explicitly that I would know anything about the issue of linking businesses according to the recommendations of the Ministry of Justice. That's what my defense attorneys tried to explain to me during criminal proceedings, but it's so complicated that I still don't understand it. And then I rule out that I would commit, in connection with, or help to, any kind of subsidy of any criminal offence in question, that I would do any action listed in the prosecution intending to help anyone, any crime or infringement. All legal acts in the prosecution designated as my active involvement in creating the conditions for committing a criminal offence are, without exception, legal steps. At first, the prosecutor concluded that an offence had been committed and re-evaluated my alleged conduct as unlawful, in a situation where there was not yet any evidence that the prosecution of the selected actions carried out since 2007, from October 2007 - that is 15 years - until February 2008 were effective with my full knowledge that they would result in the submission of an application for a subsidy, in which the indication of a small enterprise would be false because the activities that the company was planning to carry out following the construction of the farm area of the Chapi nest, although it did not actually carry them out at the time of the application for a subsidy, would establish a link with companies from the Agrofert group through my person and the shareholders of the Čapí nest. So nonsense. The prosecution blames me for five circles of my alleged crime, but three of which describe third party meetings - the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s. and the shareholders of the Čapí Nest farm. This is, in short, a change in the legal form of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, approval of the transfer of shares by the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov and further transfer of the majority part of the shares to Mr Herodes. There's no way this is about my own actions, and I don't understand how this prosecution can blame me at all. At the same time, I strictly rule out any member of the former Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., that we should take these steps in order to commit any criminal activity. As regards the remaining two areas of so-called crime, it is the following: written consent to the transfer of shares of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., I signed as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Agrofert, a. s., until ex post after approval by the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s. That's what the company's laws and statutes required. Similarly, regarding the consent of Imoby to the location of the registered office of ZZN AGRO Pelhřimov, s. r. o., it is only a logical conclusion of concluded lease contracts, not an infringement. Without the consent of the land owner, the registered office of the company could not have been registered under the law. I completely deny and exclude that I would, in any way, direct members of my own family to commit crime. I find that absurd! The prosecutor resorted to the purpose of branding absolutely legal acts as unlawful - evidently because of the lack of evidence and the emptyness of the original version of the act, to which the case finally came after six years of criminal proceedings. As I have already described, over the course of six years, this entire alleged case has narrowed down as individual charges have been dropped gradually due to lack of evidence. This narrowing of the case resulted in a complete halt to the prosecution of all defendants, including me. After the Supreme Attorney's decision to politically and to abolish the termination of the prosecution of myself and Mrs Nagyová, it did not remain a stone-on-stone from the original construction, and my prosecution became legally and effectively pointless. My defense attorney described it in his statement of impeachment. Since it was a case politicized from the start, it was necessary to bring my person to justice. The result is a purposefully created indictment that does not make any legal or factual sense. The entire part of the prosecution concerning my alleged assistance to crime is nothing more than a set of hypotheses and completely unrealistic ideas or considerations. In the case of three of the total five accusations of defined circuits of my alleged activity, the prosecutor blames me for the conduct of third parties - the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., and the shareholders of the Čapi Nest farm. So it's not about my own actions. I don't understand how the prosecution even blames me for someone else's actions. I strictly rule out any member of the former Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s. or members of my own family in any way I would have worked on any of the former members of the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s. or members of my own family to provide assistance to commit a crime. So it's clear, I'm innocent and I didn't commit any crime. This process is merely a result of the long-term efforts of the political cartel to discredit and eliminate me from politics. I don't suffer from some obsessive fantasies that they're after me, but there is clear evidence that this is the case. Traditional politicians across the spectrum and their supporters have created their own system here, their own state in a state that has the task of ensuring their primary interest, money and power, and I crashed their system, and when they couldn't corrupt me, they decided to destroy me. That's why they're constantly inventing cases from my business, because they're aware that unlike them, they can't find anything on my politics because there's nothing. And that they tried! They tried very hard. It is absolutely crucial for this political cartel to get rid of me in politics - not through the standard political struggle of ideas and programs, but through misinformation, subterfuge attacks and defamation campaigns. The stork nest case is the tip of the iceberg. [[10.30 hours]] So, in conclusion, I've never done anything illegal and I find it absurd to stand trial on Monday. My conscience is clear, and I am sure that it will prove itself once and for all during the process, because, in short, the truth and love must prevail, so hopefully it will. So, of course, everyone look forward to Monday, especially Mr. Rakušan. Wish you luck!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u13	Minister Pavel Blažek is registered with priority rights. I'm just gonna report that I'm gonna vote with a replacement card number 30. And if you don't mind, I'm gonna reload my apologies. For health reasons today, Mr Metnar - the whole day of the meeting, Šafránková Lucie from 12 o'clock for work reasons, and Mr Štefanová Iveta - the whole day of the meeting for family reasons. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u14	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I listened to Mr. Babiš. To begin with, I would like to say so much that those quotes, when he quoted me, were not mentioned in connection with this particular case, were spoken in general, but are valid in general and I insist. I will add one more thing - and that is also the thesis that I insist on and that I have also said several times - and that is that criminal law is not supposed to govern politics. This means that it is not meant to be that, when any criminal case takes place, this country's policy should be followed accordingly. But now it's important. It's not like someone's being charged, investigated, and it becomes part of politics. Unfortunately, this is part of the policy when we, as political parties, use arguments that escape from writings, wiretaps, and so forth. Now, imagine that there's an accused person sitting around, there's a police officer sitting here, like a prosecutor, and he's having fun with how he managed to make some information that's not supposed to be public becomes part of a political struggle. Through Mr President, I have to say to Mr Andrej Babiš, on this there is also Andrej Babiš, but also the other parties, because the ANO movement also sometimes read various wiretaps from the preparatory proceedings and used it as a weapon against other political parties. I'd say, "Whoever is blameless, throw a stone at her." The whole political scene, as we sit here, is responsible for the fact that various leaks from the files are hitting us very hard and very badly in this country's political system. In the Dosimeter case, it reached a complete peak when one accused goes to tell journalists something, and on the basis of the fact that one accused, that means criminally prosecuted, names different persons, on the basis of this claim, heads fall. [[to]] But the responsibility is on the accused, the journalist? No, the responsibility is for politicians who, on the basis of various articles - unverifiable - respond by solving and resigning. And we, please, give political power, and we must not do that, we surrender outside this House. Now, it's enough that one or the other law enforcement authority, as I said before, or the accused so-called leaks some information that can't be verified at all, and we start freaking out about it, they start freaking out about all the other organizations that are playing for democracy, and we're, like, crazy, giving in to pressure, our own bullshit. There's just no other way to say it, and weakness. I would ask this House terribly for the future and everyone here: let's never read each other anything that escapes from the pre-trial process again. This damages the country's political system, harms the reputation of politics itself and the political system, and we give power to it, and I insist, somewhere else, and we often do not know where. Allow me to say nothing about Mr Babiš's claim that this is a political process. That's the right to say that, Mr. MP, even in court. I just have one thing to say. The trial will be public, which means anyone can check the trial procedure. I have not yet noticed that the courts have acted politically. I would almost say that they sometimes progress worse, usually well, and we have to evaluate that. But I have to say here as Minister of Justice for the defense of the courts, because I expect this to be a legal process, and you will all be able to control it, including the public. I do not like and oppose this, and here I agree with Mr Babiš, that some pressure groups demonstrate before the courts and in advance those people who go there to defend themselves, such as defendants or witnesses, influence by the fact that there will be a mob standing there, because, of course, it affects the legal proceedings. These organizations say they're trying to make lawsuits fair and free. That's exactly how the courts get rid of or try to get rid of the freedom to make decisions. That is, if such demonstrations are, and it concerns any process, that is, not only when it comes to politics, but also when it comes to some other case, even if very - as I would say - unpleasant, unpleasant, but I just don't think those pressure groups have anything to do in front of the courthouse to tell the witnesses ahead - that is so important - that he should be afraid to testify in favour of the defendant, for example. That's just a phenomenon I don't like, and I think whoever's doing this is doing it wrong, and they can call it God's way of thinking about it. I think that's probably all I wanted to say, but the point is that today the biggest threat to the independence of all institutions, not only active in criminal proceedings, is the media pressures and, of course, the Internet, I insist. I don't know about a single case today, although it is still mentioned when a politician interferes with the activities of the court, really nothing like that has been known for years, but there is already a caselaw in different states of Europe that clearly states that media pressures, showing different things before the trial starts, affect two things. Firstly, it is a violation of the right to a fair trial in favour of the accused, but secondly, and it is even worse, it can cause the courts to make decisions, because they also watch television, they also read the Internet, and of course they should have the picture only since the trial of everyone they judge. It's not like that here. I, Mr Babish, through the President, believe that you are not going to the court for a prior conviction, you will go as everyone else for a judgment, and, as I have already said, the entire public can control it completely. But let the judges decide freely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-000-000.u15	We're still on the agenda. I want to ask if there's anyone else who's applying to the agenda for the meeting? If that is not the case, we will deal with the proposals submitted. We'll go one step at a time. The first proposal is the proposal by Mr Benda, President, to include item 111, House press 67, Antarctica Act, at the end of the third reading. I'll call my colleagues with a gong. Yes, I heard an interest in the check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to log back in with your I.D. cards. The number of Members has stabilized. So I will repeat for those who arrived later: we will now vote for item 111, House press 67, Antarctica Act, to be included at the end of the third reading. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 59 vote, 146 Members were enrolled, 146 voted in favour, against no one. This proposal was adopted. [[10.40 hours]] As a second proposal, we will also vote on the proposal by President Benda to include item 113, House press 150, cultural goods, also at the end of the third reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking, who is this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 60 vote, 148 Members were enrolled, 148 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. We have also adopted this proposal. We will now also vote on President Benda's proposal that House Press No 216, paragraph 6, namely the road, this is a second reading procedure, be included after third readings. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 61, 148 Members were voted in favour, 148 voted against no one. The motion was accepted. The next proposal by President Benda is that item 19, House press 218, the fight against fraud, in the EU parentheses as well as second reading, be discussed after paragraph 6, which we voted in the previous vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 62 149 Members were voted in favour of 135, against 13. The motion was accepted. President Benda's last proposal is at paragraph 20, House press 219, also equals the fight against fraud, related to the previous law, second reading, and should be discussed after paragraph 19, House press 218. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such an assignment? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 63, 149 Members voted in favour of 135, against 13. The motion was accepted. Then we have Mr Babiš's motion for a new item entitled How the Babiš Police Cartel was brought to trial, the Member proposes it as the first point. First, we will vote on the inclusion of a point in the agenda. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of us putting it in place? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 64, 150 Members were voted in favour of 69, against 60. The proposal was rejected, and therefore we will not vote on its firm inclusion. According to my information, we have dealt with all the proposals for changing or supplementing the program. I'm still checking with eye contact to see if we've forgotten anything? If not, thank you and we will move on to the approved points of our meeting. And we'll continue with point number
