ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-004-066.u1	66. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the Czech Republic's approach Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European satellite satellite organisation EUTELSAT and the Agreement amending the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European satellite organisation (EUTELSAT) as amended by Corrigendum No. 1 of 16 January 2006 and with ratification of the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation "EUTELSAT' of 1982, its amendments 1983 and 1999 /German press 91/ - second reading I ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela take the floor first. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-004-066.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented at second reading to the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT to give its consent to its ratification, and to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the "EUTELSAT' and to the Agreement amending this Protocol, as amended by Corrigendum 1 of 16 January 2006, to express its consent to the Czech Republic's access to them. EUTELSAT was established in 1977 to operate a satellite system providing telecommunications services for transmission of television and radio broadcasting, telephone calls and data within Europe. The privileges and immunities of EUTELSAT correspond to the tasks of the organisation and the privileges and immunities of other professional international government organisations. EUTELSAT has its seat in France, where the rights and immunities of the organisation are exercised in particular. In this situation, the application of the Protocol in the case of the mission of representatives of the Contracting Parties and of officials to the Czech Republic is taken into account. No member contributions or access to the Protocol shall be paid in EUTELSAT and no financial commitments shall be made to the Agreement by the Czech Republic. It will therefore be without impact on the state budget of the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discussed the proposal on 28 January this year and at first reading approved its further discussion on the Foreign and Economic Committee. The proposal was discussed at the Foreign Committee on 3 February and at the Economic Committee on 24 February. The material was clearly explained in detail. The negotiations on both committees took place without any additional questions and the proposal was recommended for approval. The material was also discussed in the Senate, which recommended it for ratification on 3 March 2022. The material is now presented to the Chamber of Deputies at second reading and I also address you with a request for its approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-004-066.u3	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, sit down, as you already do, at the rapporteur's table. This House press has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee and the Economic Committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 91/1 and 91/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the foreign committee and the rapporteur of the economic committee, Mr Ondřej Lochman, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-004-066.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, honourable members of the government. Both the Economic Committee and the Foreign Committee dealt with this Treaty. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 4th meeting of 24 February. Neither of these negotiations raised significant objections or comments on this Treaty. It is a treaty that passes on to this plenary from the past period. The petitioner has already mentioned most important matters. I would like to introduce you here to the resolution proposed by the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the words of the Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade, which we had on the Economic Committee, and we were also informed on the Committee of Foreign Affairs. The resolution here is that we recommend that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its consent I. the accession of the Czech Republic to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Satellite Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT and to the Agreement amending the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Satellite Organisation, as amended by Corrigendum No 1 of 16 January 2006; II. to ratify the Convention establishing the European Satellite Organisation "EUTELSAT' of 1982, its amendments 1983 and 1999.' So that's it. At the same time, our committee has commissioned the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. I would therefore like to ask you to support this international treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-004-066.u5	I thank the rapporteur. I'll also ask him to sit down at the rapporteur's desk. I am opening up a debate on this point where I have no application, which is why I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? There isn't in either case. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur has put it. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 93 registered 144 present, for 136, against none. The motion was accepted. We have therefore agreed to the motion for a resolution and I can end the discussion of this point. I thank both the rapporteur and the rapporteur. There were other apologies, which is why I'm gonna load them. Mr. Jan Richter's apology on the grounds of the doctor's visit throughout the day. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 9:00 to 17:00 for personal reasons. We will proceed to the discussion of the point
