ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all to it. For our participation to be recorded, first I ask for peace and quiet. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I'm really gonna ask you to calm down. I know we all see each other for the first time in the new year, and I will allow myself to take the opportunity to wish you all the best in it. Thank you. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a proposal for a 6th meeting on Tuesday 14 December 2021. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 15 December 2021. First of all, at the beginning of our meeting today, I would like to ask you, my fellow Members, in addition to the peace of mind, to honor the memory of the late President of the European Parliament. That message caught all of us this morning. So please honor David Sassoli with a minute of silence. Thank you. [[The present rose and a minute of silence honored the memory of David Sassoli.]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, I welcome the new Government of the Czech Republic to our meeting and, given the apology of Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who, as you will understand, asked for the representation of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan on the first trip abroad. And that is why I ask that he introduce us to the Prime Minister, who is excused, to present us with individual members of the government. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u2	Good day, Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, honourable Ministers. Let me also personally excuse Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who is on a very important foreign trip, logically in Slovakia, where the first roads of important constitutional actors usually go. At the same time, please allow me, although for most of you, it will be a formal introduction, of course, to introduce to you individual members and members of the new government of the Czech Republic. [[The names gradually rise up and bow to the House]] . Mr Marian Jurečka, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Mr Ivan Bartoš, Deputy Prime Minister for Digitalization and Minister for Local Development. Mr Vlastimil Válek, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance. Ms. Jana Černochová, Secretary of Defense. Mr. Pavel Blažek, Minister of Justice. Mr. Jan Lipavský, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr Jozef Síkela, Minister of Industry and Trade. Mr. Martin Kupka, Minister of Transport. Mr. Petr Gazdík, Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. Mr. Zdeněk Nekula, Minister of Agriculture. Mrs. Anna Hubáčková, Minister of the Environment. Mr. Martin Baxa, Minister of Culture. Mrs Helena Langšádlová, Minister for Science, Research and Innovation. Mr Michal Šalomoun, Minister of Legislation and Chairman of the Government Legislative Council. At the same time, allow me to apologise from today's session to the Minister for European Affairs, Mikuláš Bek, who is on a foreign business trip in Brussels. My name is Vít Rakušan, we know each other a little bit, I'm the Minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you at this point that the Czech Government is, of course, looking forward to working with you. We realise that Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, but also the Senate, are the places that control us, and we look forward to a substantive debate, we look forward to a substantive debate with a substantive opposition, and it will certainly start in the next few minutes. So all good for the new year, good health and hopefully the cooperation will be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Renáta Zajíčková and a Member of Stanislav Berkovec. Does anyone else have a suggestion? There is no other proposal, which is why I am opening the vote on the verifiers of this meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 1, 182 Members and Members were enrolled and 181 of them were in favour. I therefore note that we have appointed the verifiers of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Renáta Zajíčková and Mr Stanislav Berkovec. I say that before the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting by the following Members: Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Milan Feranec for health reasons, Josef Kott for health reasons, Jiří Mašek for health reasons, Mrs Zdeněk Němečková Crkvenjaš for work reasons, Pavel Staněk for work reasons, Mr Milan Wenzl for health reasons. And from the members of the government, as has already been said, Prime Minister Petr Fiala apologizes for foreign travel, Minister Mikuláš Bek for reasons of employment and from 15 to 17 am is announced here, also for work reasons, excuse of Minister Petr Gazdík. Members of Parliament, on 5 January this year, by my decision number 10, on the basis of the Government's proposal, I declared a legislative emergency for the period from 5 January to 4 February 2022. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. [[14.10 hours]] This is a government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, which is the House Press 116, and on the Government Bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of state authority and of certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended, and Act No. 201/1997 Coll., on the salary and other requirements of prosecutors and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 143/1992 Coll., on the salary and remuneration of a work emergency in budgetary and in some other organisations and bodies, as amended, as amended. This is the House press 117. By decision number 11, I have decided to discuss these government proposals in the short-term negotiations, ordering the House press 116 to the Social Policy Committee, the House Press 117 to the Budget Committee, and setting them an unstoppable deadline for the submission of the resolution, until today at 13:00. Dear colleagues and colleagues, pursuant to § 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this. I don't see anybody logged in to her, so if no one signs up for the debate, and I really don't see anybody, then I'm done. And we'll proceed directly to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution on which we will vote: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I'm gonna ask you to vote. I'm initiating it now and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The number 2 vote includes 183 Members, and 176 of them have voted in favour. The motion was accepted. We will therefore continue the state of the legislative emergency that has just been approved. And we will now proceed to the agenda of the 6th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. I see an actual report here, but I assume that Mr. Štolpa's only voting... Yes, I will. However, I will be familiar with the consensus of today's grémia, when we propose to include two new points in the draft agenda, namely the draft laws that have been tabled in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency. These prints are 116, a government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended in a short hearing, and House Press 117, Government Bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements associated with the exercise of the office of representatives of state authority and some other state bodies and so on, as amended, a shortened hearing again. We propose to include these House prints firmly, today, on Tuesday, 11 January, as the first and second points of the negotiations. I would also like to inform you that on 7 January of this year I received a letter from the Prime Minister asking the Government to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and to ask for a vote of confidence. In this context, we propose to include a new point in the proposal for a 6th meeting as a solid point on Wednesday, 12 January tomorrow, as the first point from 9 pm. Finally, the organizational communication: on 6 January this year, the Government withdrew the following bills: the Government's Bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, which is House Press 26, Government Bill amending Act No. 383/2012 Coll., on the terms and conditions of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, House printing 27, Government bill amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and on the amendment of certain laws, crisis law, House print 2, Government bill on the entry and import of certain cultural goods into the customs territory of the European Union and on the amendment of Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, which is the House's press 29, the Government's draft law on mass proceedings, the House's press 35, the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the law on mass proceedings, the House's press 36, and finally the Government's draft law amending Act No. 165/2012Coll. , on supported sources of energy and on the amendment of certainlaws , which is theHouse 's Press69. In particular, it concerns points 23, 24, 25, 26, 30, 31 and 51 of the draft programme available to you, and so I ask you to cross these points out or to indicate that these points will not be discussed again or voted on. It's noted. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, item 80 is included in the proposal for a 6th meeting, which are the answers of the members of the Government to written interpelations - to date this item is not fulfilled. So you can also cross that point out, please. That's all on my side. And now, Madam Members, I ask you also to comment on the proposal for a programme. President Tomio Okamura has already applied for the floor. So I ask him to take the floor as the first logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by proposing an extraordinary point entitled Explanation of the statement by the President of the House of Markéta Pekarová Adamová against Hungary. The SPD rejects the hostile, stupid and arrogant statements made by House President Markéta Pekarová Adamová of the TOP 09 that Maďar are to expel Prime Minister Orbán in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. Thus, the steps taken by the new Fialův Government to break up cooperation in the Central European region within the framework of the V4 and the effort to move our Republic completely into the hands of Brussels and Berlin. The statement by Mrs Pekarová Adamová follows the remarks made by the new Minister for European Affairs, Mikuláš Bek, for the STAN movement, who said that the Czech Republic would stand on the side of Brussels against Poland and Hungary. Minister Bek resents that the Polish court has ruled that Polish laws are superior to European Union legislation. According to Bek, the decision of the Polish court is said to destabilize the Central European region and the Czech Republic should conclude closer alliances with Germany. So I would like to begin by asking Minister Bek not to speak for the Czech Republic, because your government and your electoral result did not receive the majority of the electoral votes in the Czech Republic, including the votes cast, so you would get a minority of the electoral votes in the Czech Republic, so you do not represent the Czech Republic or on the basis of the election results. You represent a minority of citizens of the Czech Republic. And if we look at the spectrum of lost votes, they're voters who seem not to be in favour of your political agenda. So I would strongly ask you not to play something you're not, because your election result doesn't match that. It is clear that this government will continue with the utter insignificance of Czech foreign policy, which is, of course, embodied by the new foreign minister Jan Lipavský, whom neither the voters of the pirát themselves wanted in the House, so he failed in the elections. The new government leads to the fact that the Czech Foreign Minister will no longer be needed, but the Czech Ambassador in Germany will suffice as a protectorate. [[14.20 hours]] In the SPD's view, relationships with neighbors like V4 are essential. The standard foreign policy of a sovereign country is supposed to have three pillars: first, the closest countries and allies, second, third countries where we have some economic interest. This principle is falling apart now, and that's wrong. So I will repeat once again that I would like us to include as the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting a point entitled Explanation of President Pekarová Adamová's statement against Hungary. At the same time, I add that if the government coalition does not agree to this point, we will start collecting the necessary 80 signatures for the vote on the appeal of the President of the House of Pekarová Adamová from this post. I merely remind you that in order to initiate this vote, we need two fifths of the signatures of the Members of the House. Then, if we hand them in, the government coalition can arrogantly postpone the vote again, that there is no deadline. He can put it off because you're afraid of the vote. Or we can actually vote and look back straight at who and what policy they approve here. In any case, it is a record that shortly after the election, signatures will be collected here for the appeal of the President of the House. It's an incredibly embarrassing performance by House President Pekarová Adamová, and it's not the first excess. [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] In this context, today we have another demonstration of contempt for the electorate and the word given. STAN President Jan Farský announced that he was leaving for a six-month internship in the United States of America. If I forget the content of the internship, he'll be working on a project at the University of the United States. He will give up his position as chairman of the STAN Parliamentary Club, but he will not resign from the parliamentary mandate. He wants to continue to serve as a Member. At the same time, in the coalition agreement between the Pirates and STAN, point 5.2.5 states that the elected coalition candidate - and I quote now - "will take the work of a Member as a priority and arrange for his other activities so that he can devote sufficient time to performing his duties." [[work in self-government, study, entrepreneurship, teaching and so on]] End of quote. A six-month internship in America - that means that he can't attend to the work of a Member - he consulted and has agreed to do so both with STAN Party President Vít Rakušan, so he also approves the violation of their coalition contract - Pirates, who are as quiet as ever, because they are four, they are glad to be at the creek, they prefer not to express themselves anymore. [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] After this, Prime Minister Petr Fiala agreed with him and said they both supported him. So we see that Mr Farský clearly violated the coalition treaty of the Pirates and STAN and despises their voters. Mr Farský put on his Twitter - that is the Farský MP, when someone is watching it on TV, he is the one who has always played Mr čistý here, who has always taught others here, that is Mr čistý, such a nickname maybe, Mr čistý, who is now violating everything he has promised - now Mr Farský has stated on his Twitter that an internship is a unique opportunity for him to develop his career. So he gets elected to the House, he doesn't want to develop a career for citizens here anymore, but he wants to keep the mandate, and he's going to develop it in the United States. So he's building his career on promises to voters. He just cheated on them, those voters, he lied and cheated, that's all. Because here we read exactly what you have in the coalition contract. The only honest solution is for Mr Farský to resign as a Member. That would fill that government MP with what he promised the voters. It is also shocking - although I have known them here from the House for several years now, so I am not shocked - that such contempt for voters will be supported by the leader of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement and Prime Minister Petr Fiala. So, through the President, I would like to call on Mr STAN Jan Farský to explain why he cheated on their voters and broke the election vows. Even now, some journalists have been telling me when they asked me a moment ago what we think of this fraudulent act by a member of the STAN Jan Farský movement, that he is saying that he is arguing - Mr Farský - that he wants to take advantage of the six months' work in America, so he wants to keep his parliamentary mandate. Or not, he said for a citizen's job, that's why he wants to keep the mandate. But he doesn't need a mandate to do that. So let him take up the MPs, do his internship in the United States, and then he can come back, and he can take advantage of his work for the citizens. But why does he keep his parliamentary mandate? Afraid he doesn't have a job? Does he fear that the content of the work he is doing internship for cannot be taken into account in the Czech Republic? There can't be another reason. Where's Mr. Farský? He'd rather have disappeared from the House. The press told me they couldn't contact him. I met him downstairs a while ago, but they couldn't contact him all morning to ask him what he meant. I see - I don't know what the seating chart is right now - but I don't see it anywhere. Well, I'm sure we won't see him at the microphone. Well, I may be seeing it a lot harder than that, but I'm not gonna see him here at the microphone, 'cause we know there's nothing we can do to explain. So that's the point that we're going to propose, and other things are happening here at the same time. So that's the first thing, Madame Pekarová Adamová. Second thing, I'd like to ask you to pre-schedule the SPD bill. It's point 22, print 25. It's freezing the salaries of politicians for the entire term. We would like it to be put before your proposal, because because of the government, because of this new government of Petr Fiala, it has increased since 1. 1. 2022 salaries of politicians by 6 percent. Because of you, the bill from the SPD pen was already here at the end of last year. If you'd supported him, we could have voted calmly in December - we put it in the so-called '90s - and it could have been done by now. But since you didn't want to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire term, you didn't support our proposal. That's why you spit in people's faces because you've raised your own salaries by 6 percent. While Petr Fiala promised - your government - that by the end of the year, the last week of December, you would present a plan against the increase in energy, you did not imagine anything because you have no plan, but you had your own politicians' salaries raised. So now we need to face it. Therefore, I propose that before your point on freezing politicians' salaries, we include our bill to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. But so that you couldn't simply cheat voters again and promise your promises of error and deed to escape, we also tabled an amendment for sure under your bill. So there's going to be a vote. If it is today, we will vote either way on our proposal that we want to freeze salaries for the entire parliamentary term, so you will not avoid it anyway. Either way, you can't avoid it. Now, we're gonna take a good look at the government five-calice vote with the public today, see if they're gonna support your proposal, which you're gonna cross after the funeral, freeze salaries for a few months, or support our proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire term. Well, I think we'll be clear now, too, and we'll put an end to your populism, because citizens will immediately see in the media how it really is with you. I'm already predicting the result, I'm expecting it, of course, because the government, which will add three extra seats, that you really can't even fit in here - I see, there hasn't been that kind of pressure behind me, I don't think I've ever seen it before. Because, as you're in five-calice, there's such an interest in the crust -- there's not enough, even a chair in the House -- that's how tight it is, I really didn't see it for myself. It is a good thing that some of you are not Members, so the voting device will probably be enough, but that is a really incredible situation. So these are our suggestions. That's what I'd like us to vote on, and, of course, we'll see how you stand up to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u5	Thank you for presenting the proposal. The next one is on the agenda of President Alena Schillerová's meeting, and before she arrives at the counter, I have two apologies - from Mrs Naiclerová on account of illness and from Mrs Voborská, between 18.30 and 20.30. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Allow me to request the inclusion of two points, namely points 65 and 66 - it is a proposal for amendments in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies and paragraph 66, a proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies - and to request their fixed inclusion on Wednesday, January 12, at 12.30, which is exactly after the deadline when this is possible. Allow me to defend this proposal. I think there will be a meeting tomorrow about the government's trust. It would be very good and desirable and belonging to the custom that the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies will be complete. The organizational committee will also be meeting tomorrow, where the YES movement does not have two representatives at the moment, which, of course, is a weakening for the meeting on this organisational committee. So let me ask you this. It's not possible before, because the deadline ends tomorrow at 12 o'clock. We believe that no problems with nominations that I signed and sent to the electoral committee after consulting the ANO club are being signalled at political level, so I believe that this might not be a problem and it would not have to be dragged forward - or disrupted - tomorrow's meeting on government trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u7	I also thank you for presenting the proposal and another one is signed up with priority right on the agenda by President Excellent. Let me just make it clear that Mrs Naiclerová's apology is not only for today, but from 10 to 14 January. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, my dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I would like to propose this amendment to the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of the agreement of the five Presidents of the SPOLU coalition and the Pirates and STAN coalition. It is a pre-selection of five prints in the chapter First Reading, specifically in this order - I propose their inclusion at the beginning of the block of first reading. This is point 57, House Press No 86 - Government Bill amending Act No 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code and so on. Second in the order of item 46, House press 61 - Government bill on pan-European personal pension product and amendment of related laws. As the third pre-schedule item number 50, the House press 68 - the government bill amending Act No. 370/2017 Coll., on Payment and so on. All these three prints were submitted by the previous government. As the fourth point, we propose item number 47 of the programme, House press 63 - the proposal of Members of Ivan Bartoš, Martin Kupka, Věra Kovářová, Jan Jakob, Marek Výborný and others on the amendment of the construction law, if we shorten it. And as the fifth in the order of paragraph 34, the House press 39 - Senate draft amendment to the Act on Elections, in simple terms, a correspondence election from abroad. So once again, I suggest we place these points at the beginning of the block of first reading in the order of points 57, 46, 50, 47 and 34. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u9	I also thank you for the proposal. Mrs Válková also logged in and I see another logged in. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I suggest we put the House press 54 in the first reading block, paragraph 41. It is a parliamentary amendment to the Act on the salary of state officials. I think it's a good fit for the whole program, because here we're going to be dealing with this issue. The object of the proposal is to freeze the salaries of state officials for five years, i.e. 2022 to 2026. The salaries of judges and prosecutors shall not be affected by the proposed freezing of a level of salary in this proposal. This will certainly be a relatively broad and interesting debate, which is why I think it would deserve to include this proposal in the first reading block. I'm not suggesting a specific time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u11	Madame, however, this item in the first reading block is already basically in the proposal itself, so now your proposal would be good indeed if you wanted to specify a firm inclusion. Otherwise, we basically have nothing to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u12	Okay, in that case, I suggest that he be included in the proposal that he made here, by your means, Madam President, Mr Okamura, because he proposes... So if you would be kind enough to repeat the exact time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u13	Yes, Mr Okamura proposes a pre-position of item number 22, print 25, actually as a second point, if his first proposal passes, it makes sense. In the event that his first proposal does not pass, as well as the first point, and at that point, we make the inclusion that you propose subject to these two approvals. Do we understand that correctly?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u14	Thank you, you understand correctly, and thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. The next entry is Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Jan Jakob. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a counterclaim against the proposal by the President of the ANO Schillerová Club, and therefore the inclusion of two ballot points under number 65 and 66, i.e. the Proposal for amendments to the composition of the Chamber of Deputies and the Proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, on Friday at 13:30. The reason is obvious, because tomorrow we will undoubtedly have a long discussion, absolutely crucial, about the government's request for confidence. It is one of the most fundamental points discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, which is why we would not like to interrupt it by this choice. We were prepared to include that choice today, but unfortunately, the President of the Election Commission has set the deadline as he has set it, so this cannot be done today because of the deadlines. Therefore, I propose to include these two points on Friday at 1:30 p.m., when these elections can be settled, these two points will be discussed. I do not want to reduce their importance, but, given the importance of tomorrow's negotiations, we consider this to be better and more dignified both for tomorrow's negotiations and for the election of Vice-President of the House itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u17	Thank you for presenting the proposal. Now I see an application from President Schillerová's seat. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make a counter-proposal for President Jakob's motion to vote precisely because he said he didn't want to reduce their significance, so I feel a little bit at that time of 13:30, so I'm giving the counter-proposal to make it Friday at 9:00. Thus, a firm inclusion of paragraphs 65 and 66 for Friday at 9 o'clock as a counterproposal for President Jakob's motion, provided that my first proposal for inclusion is not passed for tomorrow at 12.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u19	There's a collision of counterproposals, but I've got them on record. The moment we approach these points, we will vote in the order of counterproposals, how they respond to each other. However, I no longer see another logged in or logged in. Is anyone else applying to the draft agenda with an amendment or an additional proposal to the programme? If this is not the case, we may proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. First of all, proposals from the Gremium. If there is no objection, I would have voted on these proposals at once. I don't see anybody from the bench objecting. I'm picking up interest in the check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I will repeat the proposals from the Gremium which we will vote on because there was no objection, as a whole, at once. We therefore vote to include two new points in the draft programme. These are drafts of laws submitted in connection with the announcement of a state of emergency, namely the House press 116, on state social support, in the short-term negotiations, and the House press 117, namely the salary and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of State officials, in the short-term negotiations, firmly to date, namely on Tuesday, 11 January 2022, in the order in which they were presented, as the first and second points. The next point that the Gremium proposes to include is a new point. It is the request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence, firmly on Wednesday, tomorrow day 12. 1, as the first point at 9 o'clock. And so these are the three issues. Our numbers have stabilized, and I can begin voting on these matters. I wonder who's in favour of this change in the agenda? Who's against it? In voting number 3, 184 Members and Members were all present, so the proposals from the Gremium were adopted in this way and we have included these points. Others, therefore, are the proposals that have been tabled today. We'll start in the order in which they were presented. President Okamura proposes to place a new point. First, we have to get to the program at all, and then, if it passes, we would vote for a firm classification as proposed. That point, if I am wrong in light adjustment, if the President corrects me, was under the heading Explanation of the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, on behalf of Hungary. The President agrees with the text. Initiating vote on the launch of a new item. [[inclusion]] [[Who's in?]] Who's against it? In voting number 4, we have 186 Members of Parliament, 85 of them, against 98. The proposal has not been adopted, so we do not have the opportunity to vote on solid inclusion either. The other proposal put forward by President Okamura concerns the priority of the point, because, as far as others are concerned, the inclusion of new points, but the criticism, of reservations that did not take the form of a point, did not sound like that. And the assignment concerned point No. 22, namely the press 25, which Mr Okamura proposes to include as the first item in today's negotiations. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 187 Members and Members, 85 of them, were registered against 100. The motion was not accepted. The next are the proposals made by President Schillerová, to whom President Jakob responded, so let us be familiar: the President's proposal for items 65 and 66. I'm willing to propose a single package vote, both of which are elections. Madam Speaker nods, so he agrees. President Schillerová's original proposal is to be placed firmly on Wednesday 12 January at 12.30, after which the counterproposal from President Jakob was made firmly on Friday at 13.30, after which the counterproposal was made by President Schillerová on Friday, at 9 o'clock. We should actually start with this proposal because it's counterproposal. Yes, we should start with this proposal, if I say this correctly, so that we can actually vote. It's a little tricky. So first, we should vote on Mrs Schillerová's counterproposal. Do you agree with that? I think since it's the first one, yes, the first one, it makes sense like that. When the counterproposal proposal and the counterproposal is counterproposaled, that's the only way. Therefore, we are actually beginning with the vote on the solid inclusion of paragraphs 65 and 66, in short, the voting points for Friday, 9 o'clock. I hope everyone knows their way around this vote. I'm initiating it and I'm asking who's up for a fixed vote for Friday at 9 o'clock? Who's against it? 188 Members and Members voted in favour of 85, against 3, abstained from 100, so the proposal was rejected. I see the actual application, but I suppose that's just a later vote, because we're not in the debate, so I'm gonna let them all be deleted. Consequently, President Jakob's proposal to counter the original proposal by President Schillerová, namely to include these two points firmly, 65 and 66, on Friday 13.30. I said, who's in? Initiating vote. Who's against it? In the vote number 7 188 Members and Members were enrolled, for 103, against 23. This proposal has been adopted, so the original proposal by President Schillerová is therefore unvoting. This dealt with the inclusion of points 65 and 66 firmly on the program. And now here is the proposal made by the President Výborný. This is a solid inclusion of paragraph 57, House press 56, paragraph 46, House press 61, paragraph 50, House press 68, paragraph 47, House press 63, and paragraph 34, House press 39. The proposal was in this order and as points at the beginning of the block first reading. It's actually all of them in that order. The President of the Fiala shall have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to propose that we vote separately, separately, all these points, because we also want to support some points and some points, so I suggest that we vote separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-000-000.u21	Okay, sure. We will therefore vote in order as they have been put forward. Initiating vote on the inclusion of paragraph 57, press number 86. Whoever is for fixed classification as the first point of the block of first reading, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 8, 188 Members of Parliament were enrolled and 168 of them were in favour. The proposal was therefore accepted and item 57 was first included in this block. [[14.50 hours]] The second in this block was the proposal to include paragraph 46, House Press 61. That means, this time, we're voting that it would be the second point of the first reading block. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 9, 188 Members and Members voted in favour of 168 of them. The motion was accepted. As the third point, we would vote in point 50, House Press 68, to include the third point of the block of first reading. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 10, 188 Members voted in favour of 168 of them. The motion was accepted. And the last of Mr Výborný's proposals is point 34 as the fifth point of the first reading block, it is the House press 39. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of a fixed classification of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered 188 Members, for 102, versus 81. [[on the board 187]] The motion was accepted. We have dealt with all the proposals made by President Excellent, that is, all these five points are included firmly in the first reading block. The last proposal on the agenda today was a proposal from Mrs Válková. However, since the condition for the inclusion of the point has not been met, this proposal is unvoting. So we have dealt with all the proposals for changing the agenda. [[The noise in the hall.]] Was there any left out when I saw the logged in here? [[A brief clarification.]] Excuse me, I'm sorry, I'm gonna take a moment, I see logged in, yes. So I was warned that we did not vote for point 47. Sorry about that. Did President Fiala still report with priority rights? [[He's answering off the mike.]] That was just a heads-up. Thank you for warning the Prime Minister, I apologise for that, and we will therefore vote. It's a prioritization of point 47, it's a fourth point of the first reading block, House print 63. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The number 12 vote includes 188 Members and 101 of them. The motion was accepted. I shall ask once again, just in case, that all five points of Mr Excellent have been voted out - I apologise once again for the omission of that point. However, we have dealt with all the proposals to change the show. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing and modified by the amendments just approved. So I'm voting on the agenda. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 13, 188 Members and Members were enrolled for 103 present. The draft agenda for the meeting was hereby approved. Now we can proceed to the discussion of the item under the programme.
