ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u1	3. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2023 /German press 315/ - second reading The discussion was interrupted before lunch break. I note a few factual points here. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Kolovratník whether his factual point is valid or not? It's not, okay. Then Mr Roman Kubíček and then Mr Ondřej Benešík have a factual comment. Neither of those two are present in the room. I'll erase them and, if necessary, have them log in again with a factual remark. Then there are three priority rights. Mrs Kovářová will be the first to speak, then Mrs Schillerová and then Minister Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you two amendments. The first amendment concerns an increase in money for food banks and I submit it together with Members Eva Decroix, Karel Smetana, Jan Jakob, Olga Richterová and Jana Krutáková. In Chapter 329, Ministry of Agriculture, expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure, specific indicator Expenditure - Support for the agricultural sector, Subsidy for the activities of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund by CZK 39 million is increasing. In Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator The general budget reserve is reduced by CZK 39 million. At the same time, the corresponding parts of the bill, including the annexes, are being modified. The reason why we are proposing this increase is the expected increase in the volume of food that will be passed on to food banks for subsequent distribution among people at the limit of material distress, who are without adequate access to basic foods. During 2022 there was an increase in energy and fuel costs and thus a significant increase in the operating costs of food banks and other entities. Help from food banks will also be particularly necessary in the context of the expected increase in the number of people who will need food aid in 2023. I'm just reminding you that there's been a huge increase in the number of clients in the last year by 70,000. The funds are intended to support the operation of food banks and other entities with a humanitarian focus in the form of a grant to the result of the management. I would like to remind you that last Saturday there was a food collection held throughout the Republic and a total of 520 tonnes of food, sanitation, etc. were selected. This has to do with the great need for funds for operation, which means for staff and, of course, the increase in fuel and energy, and these are the reasons that led us to ask for the support of this proposal, where we raise funds by CZK 39 million for food banks. This amendment is under House document 1628 and I hereby subscribe to it. The second amendment also concerns a very good thing, and these are so-called children's lunches. I submit this amendment together with Members Renata Zajíčková, David Šimek, Jan Jakob and Klára Kocmanová. In Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure, the specific indicator Regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations, under the Other subsidy titles, Support for school meals of primary school pupils for the year 2023, by the amount of CZK 40 million. In Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure, the specific indicator Government Budget Reserve, is reduced by an amount of CZK 40 million. [[15.10 hours]] Now allow me to make a brief statement. In the budget for 2022, CZK 60 million was earmarked for the subsidy programme Supporting school meals for primary school pupils. At the end of 2021, the average price of one school lunch was around CZK 28. If we count that the school year has 200 days when pupils are in school and need to have lunch, then at this price, for the sum of CZK 60 million, we would have lunch...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u3	I'm sorry, madam, but I'm going to request a silence in the left side of the hall. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u4	Thank you. So I repeat that for this sum of 60 million crowns, 10 714 children would have lunch. During 2022 the price of school lunch gradually increased due to the general increase and schools estimate that in 2023 the price of one lunch will reach up to 36 crowns. This would mean that only 8 333 children will eat from the sum of CZK 60 million. Of the total number of children admitted to lunch in one calendar year, not all of them have lunches for ten whole months, so the number of children involved in the program during the year is much higher. During 2022, over 18,000 children had lunch under this subsidy programme. I merely point out that these funds, or transfers to schools, are made anonymously, or the choice of pupils who do not attend lunches, for example, a staff member or a staff member, or a class teacher, and then, in agreement with the director, the money is sent directly to the school cafeteria and no one knows that lunches are paid for by this pupil from this grant title. School lunches are not only important to children by feeding them. They are also an integral part of their socialization, because they are excluded from the group of classmates. The fact that a child eats at school also has a proven positive impact on their school benefits and their overall relationship with the school. At the same time, it is important to recall that in June of this year, the Czech Republic applied to the European Children's Guarantee document, which contains a call for all Member States to provide children with at least one healthy meal every school day. The Ministry of Education proposes to allocate CZK 60 million in the budget for 2023. Due to high inflation and rising energy and food prices, children who will need free school lunches will be increasing, so we propose to increase the subsidy by another CZK 40 million. This proposal is under House document 1629. I would like to ask you to support these proposals, given that both amendments concern very beneficial matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u5	Thank you, too, Madame. Now with Mrs Schillerová's priority right, Minister Ivan Bartoš will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In the meantime, I've cooled down after two hours, but I just want to respond. It's a bit of an ex post, because I wanted to respond here immediately to Minister Stanjura, but in the meantime, there were actually elections, pauses, other speakers speaking earlier. Just a few notes on your response to my reaction. I'm mainly doing this because I'm told you're not going to be on Friday for the 355 bill, which I would have liked you to be. That's where we could play the debate, so I'm using today's time. But it still has to do with the revenue side of the budget, so it's not from the point of view. Of course, I don't blame - I would be against myself - I don't blame you for choosing, as you say, more, or choosing less, or... I don't argue if it's 100 or 120, I don't know what it is. You're saying the Treasury experts counted it. I also have confidence in the Ministry of Finance's experts. When the Treasury experts present a macroeconomic prediction, whoever the minister is, I have every confidence in it, including the calculations that result from it. Regardless of the fact that we have a Committee on Budget Forecasts here today a few years since 2018, which will check whether it is Minister Petr or Pavel, so I have no doubt about it. But there are no calculations here, that doesn't result from any analysis by the Treasury. You're saying it was counted by the Treasury experts. Okay, maybe they counted a windfall tax. You know I've repeatedly asked for some calculations, I haven't gotten any calculations. There may be some hints from - I don't know if NERV did it, but these aren't real analyses and calculations. As for this draft, which is to be discussed on Friday in a state of legislative emergency, did the experts of the Ministry of Finance count that? I mean, the law is being passed by the MIT, and I wasn't able to figure out who was actually processing the law yesterday. In the end, the Ministry of Finance experts gave me answers to my questions. I didn't get it from anyone else, even if Minister Síkela was there. So I don't know, I heard from you for the first time that the Treasury experts were counting. Well, I'm surprised, that's new information for me. I just think - I know that you explained that these are connected vessels, that the 100 billion are connected vessels - but it is not possible for them to differ in the order of tens of billions. That's just not possible, because those calculations aren't anything and nobody's verified. I didn't see anything - I don't want to say that I'm an expert, but at least it could be judged by other experts. There is no such thing, because neither of these proposals went through any ordinary legislative process. And all I'm talking about is the amount I'm talking about, I'm not talking about any other ties like double taxation, like government regulations that may be contrary to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 5 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and so on and so on. All this will be on Friday, which is why I would have liked you to be here, and that's why I'm just discussing it today. Of course there are also substantive questions, which will be dealt with today by the Economic Committee. Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the House, will be there for us, among other things, so I assume that he will be there to answer these questions. You said also - I made a note here so I wouldn't forget - that the Financial Administration has the tools to verify it. Well, the Financial Administration isn't gonna check, it's not gonna manage the bill. You have an ERÚ in the law. Yesterday, on the budget committee, I learned that there were ties. Windfall tax - yes, it falls under the administration of the Financial Administration, you're right, the contribution under the ERU, but there's a mutual link because yesterday I learned that the levy should actually be an eligible expense at the windfall tax. I'm curious - that can't be done in the backup period. Therefore, you probably have written in your explanatory note that it is possible to apply for advance payments otherwise. That's why you have written on the windfall, i.e. the draft - that it could mean up to -40 billion for windfall, which now miraculously appeared on the draft. But you have an ERÚ. Then I learned yesterday on the Committee on Budgets that the ERO should serve in the plane of finding - I know what the plane of finding - and the Financial Administration should do it in the level of proving, and that is another. So this is all really very much for the discussion that would have happened, it wouldn't have to be happening here between us right now. This would take place in the various stages, albeit shortened, but legislative process. [[15.20 hours]] So there's a lot of questions. I have narrowed them down today in the debate with the two of us only to the budgetary implications or, respectively, to the revenue side of the budget, because the others belong to the debate on Friday. Well, then you said here that when you led the controversy or reacted to Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the House, you were talking about the SFDI, the advantageous ones... or the EIB loan terms. I agree with you that it is all a debt of public institutions, that is without discussion. Here, I'm not gonna argue about who's gonna close the debt and who's gonna pay it back. It's all part of the debt of public institutions, that's for sure. But I was watching the press conference when you signed the memorandum, and that's where the representative of the EIB asked, and she said - interest, journalists - and she said, "Now we're not gonna deal with it, that's not on the agenda right now. Well, if the interest isn't better than the one we borrow from in the financial markets, then what? So there's going to be a budget amendment? I don't see any other solution. And then one last thing - I've already pointed it out at first reading, and then I wasn't vigilant enough, or maybe we've booked it with other things - the Modernization Fund, he's gonna talk about it Richard Brabec, when he comes up with his amendment, he's gonna do it again. But the 50 billion in the Modernization Fund, as they appeared there, and how it is with legislation and the notification process. But I do believe that you will respond to this during the course, at least - if you don't have to get at me right away - on my colleague Richard Brabec. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u7	Thank you. With a factual remark, the Minister responds to you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u8	You could have asked, Madam President, by calling you directly through the Vice-President. I apologized on Friday for medical reasons, and it's extremely embarrassing that you're gonna tell me at 4:00 that you're asking me to be here on Friday. That's all I'm gonna say. I think it's normal to respect an apology for medical reasons. It's not the law I'm making, or I'd have to change the program. So that's really embarrassing, like, six times over here. I was talking about possible concerns about optimising the tax burden, and I said he'd look after the Financial Administration. I said she did it, she does it, and she's gonna act like it's nothing new, but the transfer price is dealt with especially for big companies all the time. So I wasn't talking about the Financial Administration being on the bill. The charge is relatively easy to manage, the calculation. The calculation was made by a working group in which they were representatives of finance, representatives of the Office of the Government, of course the MIT, which the law submits. The working group was attended by representatives of all four of the largest producers of electricity. And there it's basically simple, it's on the monthly basis of the generated energy times-- it calculates what is, what is the set ceiling, and the rest goes away. There's no escape, there's no escape. That's pretty simple, which is why the calculations - I don't have them in front of me, but I didn't check them. But because it was a cost plus system, it's hard to estimate what prices are going to be in the markets. However, it's conservative and there's no escape. It's easy to manage, and it doesn't burden the tax system, which I think is very important. And the second effect is that it's going to be less windfall, but it's the positive effect that it's burdening the extracurriculars, the standard tax system much more than, for example, if we put the ceilings much higher. And that would result in higher extraordinary profits and thus higher windfall tax payment. That's all I said. Seems logical to me. I think it'll work. If you also know that an allowance plays a crucial role in some ceilings, and no one in the Czech Republic has its prices. If the law passes in the form proposed by the government, the government is authorized to change the limits in the case of the price change of the allowance. We are counting on 85 euros, but in the bill's proposal, if it is EUR 90 or more, the government can increase the limits in this case, because it is the net contribution of those who produce electricity from brown coal or coal power plants, and it mainly concerns brown coal power plants. It seems pretty clear to me again. [[Time.]] To do this - even the numbers - can be explained very simply. Thank you for your warning, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u9	Thank you. Minister Bartoš - I do not see him here, in which case I cancel the application with priority rights and with priority rights the President Michálek will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like, instead of Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, who is on the government, to sign up for an amendment which is registered in the system as House document 1556. It is an amendment that reflects the decision made by the Chamber of Deputies today, which means the establishment of a Digital and Information Agency, and adds an additional line to all the tables in which the Digital and Information Agency is zero. It is therefore a technical proposal that brings the draft budget under the previous government agreement into line with today's decision by the Chamber of Deputies. The creation of the Agency shall be envisaged from 1 January 2023 and the necessary budgetary resources shall be transferred by the budgetary measure when the Digital and Information Agency is actually created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u11	Thank you, too. At this point, we have exhausted all the preferential rights and factual remarks, and we will therefore continue to apply properly. Mr Karel Tureček will be the first to speak and Mrs Karla Maříková will be prepared, then Jan Hrnčíř and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to justify the two amendments that I have taken the liberty of submitting in the framework of the draft Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023. First of all, this is an increase in the indicator of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, which increases expenditure - general indicators, total expenditure and specific indicators Expenditure - support for the agricultural sector, in this way subsidy to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, by CZK 2,400 000 000 at the expense of Chapter 398, total expenditure, specific indicators Expenditure - government budgetary reserve, by the same amount. This is an increase in the indicator, which is officially called national agricultural subsidies. And the fact that something is wrong already signals the resolution of the agricultural committee on the draft law on the state budget, which adopted the accompanying resolution, which called on the Minister for Agriculture to ensure the increase of the indicator of the national agricultural subsidy during 2023. I would just like to stress what the indicator contains, for example. It is, for example, the promotion of apiculture. This is a matter where CZK 113 million was spent this year and next year this expenditure is reduced to CZK 47 million. If something is going well here, and I would really say in this intergenerational line, it is the development of beekeeping and the transfer of this craft from father to son, from grandfather to grandsons, and to practically cross it out, in this way radically reducing this indicator is, in my opinion, irresponsible. It is also a question of encouraging the construction of drop irrigation in fruit orchards, hops, vineyards and forest nursery. Again, it's a matter of combating climate change. We know that practically the fruit sector, the promotion of hops, as I would say, national traditions within the Czech Republic, should be a priority for each government. Of course, we must not forget our winemakers. And when we talk about climbing the bark calamity, of course, support for forestry farming would be a priority. In this respect, the government is planning CZK 30 million in all four areas for the next year, which, of course, is also insufficient. The issue of restructuring fruit orchards - we are clearly saying that we do not want to support our fruit farmers and our fruit orchards and that we will rather import fruit from Poland. [[15.30 hours]] Another issue is the maintenance and improvement of the genetic potential of listed livestock and the promotion of genetic resources, which is support, which, if we want to use some production potential of Czech agriculture in the future to improve food self-sufficiency, to prioritize food consumption of domestic production, so to give up these tools, such as the promotion of genetic resources of livestock, is pure suicide in this area, in my opinion. Furthermore, it is, of course, the area of the Disease Fund. We know that our disease situation is deteriorating and the spread of diseases in the EU at all. This is even a priority within the EU, because within the framework of phyto-terinary measures, that is, if we want to promote a healthy lifestyle, safe food, we must also address the areas of disease issues, and this is particularly important for those diseases that are communicable from livestock to humans. Then the predecessor, Vice-President Věra Kovářová, spoke in her speech - the previous speaker, to be exact - spoke about the issue of increasing the contribution to the activities of food banks and other entities, I suspect a sum of CZK 39 million. I personally think that the amount of the increase is particularly insufficient and should be increased when the indicator under the National Grants should be increased to CZK 200 million, because, of course, food poverty is here and will be here in the future for the next two years. So that's the first amendment I'm signing on to, it's in the system under number 1587, and it's just an increase in that indicator of Support for the Agrarian sector. The second amendment, which is under 1588 in the system, addresses the same chapter, i.e. the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, where the general indicator Total expenditure and cross-cutting indicators Total expenditure on research, development and innovation, including the programme co-financed by foreign programmes, in total from the State budget and in which the assigned support totals CZK 200 million, again at the expense of Chapter 398, the Government budget reserves, by the same amount. I think that every government always declares that promoting applied research is a clear priority. And, as I have already said, it should also be in the area of agriculture, where promoting applied research in agriculture, food, forestry and water, especially in this period, whether it is the result of the war in Ukraine or the issue of climate change, should be a priority for each government. That is why I would like to propose this indicator by increasing the amount of CZK 200 million. And I hereby sign up for the amendment that is being conducted in the system under number 1588. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mrs Karla Maříková will appear and Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to apply to six amendments, two of which are for the absentee colleague Pošarová. I'm gonna try to be as brief as possible, because it's enough time and it's still 26 minutes. So my colleague Marie Pošarová's first amendment is read in the system under number 1546. It proposes to transfer an amount of CZK 3 281 840 from the budget item within the budget chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development Expenditure related to the performance of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the framework of the specific expenditure indicator Other activities of the resort into the expenditure indicator Subsidy to the State Investment Support Fund. The second amendment is loaded in the system as document 1547 and proposes in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade by CZK 6 billion to reduce the volume of expenditure item Subsidy for renewable energy sources from CZK 22 to CZK 16 billion. The government and the Ministry of Industry have repeatedly claimed that expenditure on this item will gradually reduce, especially in times of energy crisis and high electricity prices for households and industry, as well as due to disproportionate public support for so-called renewable energy sources and their producers. About these CZK 6 billion, after CZK 3 billion, it proposes to split into an increase in budget appropriations Enterprise support and support for industrial and other sectors, which the government does not propose to direct at all any financial appropriations in the same budget chapter. I would also like to apply to my four amendments. The first is loaded in the system as document 1571. In Chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health, I propose to increase the expenditure of the specific indicator Research and Development in health by half a billion and in Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, I propose to reduce the expenditure of the specific indicator The contribution to the EU budget also by CZK 500,000. Research expenditure in the Czech Republic is still very low. Private firms even spend more money on research than the state. Without long-term investment in quality development and research, it is not possible to achieve competitiveness, or compatibility, comparability and ability equivalent to cooperation with top research, either at European or world level. My next amendment is read in the system as document 1572. In Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic, I propose to increase the expenditure of the specific indicator Programs for the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments by CZK 400 million and for this same amount I propose in Chapter 306 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will reduce the expenditure of the specific indicator Program of humanitarian, stabilisation, development and economic assistance to Ukraine. The increase of funds aims to increase the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments in the Czech Republic, which are in poor technical condition, if this condition was not caused by the owner of the cultural monument, the preservation of cultural-historical character and the notice value of cultural monuments in accordance with the use of the monument with the character of its cultural-historical values. Due to the lack of funds in the conservation programmes, their repairs are being dragged out and expensive. My third amendment is read in the system as document 1574. In it, I propose, in Chapter 301, the Office of the President of the Republic, to increase the expenditure of the specific indicator Total forestry expenditure by CZK 30 million and by this same amount in Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, I propose to reduce the expenditure of the specific indicator in the EU budget. An increase in the budget of the Forest Administration aims to provide food for the winter of 1,300 animals. Making such a lot of game food for the winter is impossible in the current situation. The funds also aim to ensure sufficient amount of planting material for the recovery of rolling sticks caused by pan-European bark sludge and long-term drought. Sufficient financial cover aims to ensure the reconstruction of part of the feed centre in Šancec in the Lánské obora and others. All amendments - they are part of the justification. [[15.40 hours]] The last amendment to which I would apply is read in the system as document 1573. In Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment, I propose to increase the expenditure of the specific indicator Nature and Landscape Protection by CZK 200 million and in Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment of the Czech Republic I propose to increase the expenditure of the specific indicator Technical Environmental Protection by CZK 200 million. On the contrary, in Chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic, I propose to reduce the expenditure of the specific indicator Subsidy for Renewable Resources by CZK 400 million. The amendment aims at promoting the fight against drought, maintaining water in the countryside, and emphasis is placed on anti-erosion protection. These are the construction of small reservoirs of water, namely small ponds, wetlands, the formation of meanders, the planting of draws and other anti-erosion elements. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u15	Thank you, too, Madame. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 15 to 16 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Roman Bělor apologizes, and from 15 o'clock for business reasons Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes, from 15 o'clock for business reasons Mr Jan Bureš, from 19 o'clock for family reasons Mr Ondřej Kolář, from 16 o'clock without stating the reason Martin Kukla, from 14 o'clock for business reasons Mrs Ivana Mádlová, from 15 o'clock for family reasons Mr Jan Richter, from 15 o'clock for business reasons Mr Pavel Staněk, from 15 o'clock for business reasons Mrs Helena Válková, and from 15 o'clock for government members, Minister Michal Šalomoun apologises from 15 o'clock for work reasons. Mr Jan Hrnčíř, who is now duly registered, will be prepared by Mr Vladimír Zlínský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, with this draft budget, the massive debt of the state continues. The government promised us how to slim the apparatus, digitize it. Well, today the government coalition showed us what it looks like. A new office, a new agency with a billion-dollar budget and hundreds of officials and a budget in ever-increasing debt. I don't really have words. Let me just apply to this amendment, which is listed in the system under number 1575. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u17	Thank you. Mr Vladimír Zlínský and Mr Karel Sládeček will be ready, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting to the amendment, House Press 1576. It is my amendment, which I have already lectured here in the last budget, so I will not introduce it here for a long time. It concerns the transfer of CZK 5 billion from the budget of the European Union to address and prevent crisis situations and to civil protection of the population in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, I would like to put forward the Member's amendment and apply to it, Mr Zdeněk Kettner, who unfortunately had to leave, is not present. These are House prints 1526 and 1527. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u19	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Karel Sládeček, Mr Vladimíra Lesenská, will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ladies, gentlemen, I am signing up for an amendment which is included in the system, including the explanatory memorandum under number 1577. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u21	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, Mr Karel Rais will be ready. Mrs Lesenská is probably not in the hall, in which case Mr Karel Rais will speak and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u22	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members. I am signing up for the amendment, which is under number 1557, and allow me, in a few words, to justify this amendment, which I tabled together with Mr Ivo Vondrák. This amendment is devoted to the issue of ensuring the sustainable and competitive income of university professionals. We propose a change in the proposal for a Government Bill on the State Budget, which we want to amend for 2023: "In Chapter 333, expenditure on the general indicator is increasing Total expenditure and specific data of Science and universities in the amount of CZK 1 430 000 000 and in Chapter 398, the General Treasury, the expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator The general budgetary reserve is decreasing by CZK 1 430 000 000. The reasoning is relatively simple, it is contained in the written proposal. The total average monthly gross wage of higher education assistants, researchers and assistants is 20 to 36% lower than the average wage wage with higher education in the Czech Republic. If I shorten it, I would recall my last intervention, which was aimed at solving the problem, so Minister Balaš himself stated on 13 October. Basically, he said: "When you look at the Ministry of Education's budget, we see scissors opening up between funding for higher and regional education, so that the share of higher education in total funding is constantly falling in percentage terms. It is then that young promising college graduates, such as studying doctoral studies, prefer to go to secondary education because the average wage in secondary education is about CZK 15,000 higher for them than it is at university. I think this imbalance can cause disaster sooner or later, because soon there will be no one to teach. There will be no one to teach those who are to teach - and we cannot afford that." This is a quote from the current Minister of Education, who is also aware of the current, essentially long-term unsustainable situation. Here, the government should respect the opinion of its own minister, with whom we are in agreement on this issue. The situation is even more critical in the eligible wage components, these tariffs are even 26 to 41 percent lower than the average of the Czech tariff components is the wage sector with higher education. Even the category, the university category of lecturers is below this national comparison by about 10 percent. This really serious situation in public schools would help stabilise the increase of an average monthly gross wage of between 5 and 6 per cent, in the form of a flat-rate increase of about 10 per cent in higher education workers' wages. By qualified calculation, we have reached this requirement of 1,430,000,000 here. We believe that adequate wage policy is the only way to ensure the stability of higher education choirs and to prevent the low tide of highly professional and in the labour market of well-utilized workers to other sectors of the economy, even with regard to the turnover of the demographic curve and the beginning, the gradual onset of the number of students in higher education. I won't discuss it any further, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, I just want to ask a colleague, otherwise I'll follow the order, but did Patrik Nacher ask me if it would be possible for him to get off early? Mr Jiří Kobza and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, is it possible to release Patrik Nacher? So please, Mr. Ambassador, you asked me to. [[Member Nacher advises that he no longer asks for a priority performance.]] So please, Mr. Ambassador, think about what you want next, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u24	I'm thinking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u25	No, you're okay, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to the three amendments listed in the system under the numbers 1542, 1544 and 1555. In the first of these, I propose to transfer the sum of CZK 80 million from the spending indicator Transformation cooperation within the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the newly established Humanitarian Aid item Armenia, where it may be projects of necessary solidarity that have real meaning and importance, as they can directly contribute to the saving of particular human lives, or to improving the life situation of persons affected by the recent war conflict, when Armenia was attacked over the entire length of the eastern border by Azerbaijan, which is occupying the eastern regions so far, and which, moreover, threatens to re-establish combat actions or escalation. [[15.50 hours]] Among other things, it should also be about helping the disabled of war, the surviving families after the victims of the conflict, and especially about helping those Armenian citizens who have been and are displaced by Azerbaijani armed forces from their homes in Nahorni-Karabakh and Eastern Armenia. In this context, I would like to remind you that since the first Karabakh war in the 1990s, a large Armenian diaspora has been living in our country. These Czech Armén, members of the first Christian nation in the world, found a new home here. They work here, do business, pay taxes honestly and are very loyal to the Czech Republic. That is why we should at least help their original homeland this way, especially when it is in a difficult situation. Humanitarian aid, in general and from a budgetary point of view, is to allocate certain funds abroad in the context of the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, operationally to places affected by natural disasters or conflicts of war and similar crises. The indicator of Transformation cooperation, from which I propose to withdraw this money, deals exclusively with the financing of so-called soft, lecture and training, to indoctrination policy projects, or projects where ideological-political factors prevail in selected foreign states, including Ukraine, Moldova, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Georgia, Kosovo. These projects are long-term linked to the political segment of the so-called non-profit sector and, in their consequences, strongly interfere with the internal policy conditions of target foreign countries. The proposed volume of this indicator is especially this year, when we are facing rising inflation, the energy crisis, the expansion of state debt and the decline in the standard of living of large groups of Czech citizens, disproportionately and unjustifiedly high. It's even taller than it was last year. Moreover, it is an activity that is not in the long-term national interest of the Czech Republic, because it can undermine confidence in bilateral relations through factual violations of the international law and diplomatic principle of not interfering in the internal political affairs of foreign states, and as such it should not be financed at all from the Czech public budgets. This is all the more true in today's economic and social crisis times. In my second proposal, I demand to withdraw 1 billion from the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely from the item Contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad. This is an item that is, in particular, enormously and unjustly high in the current situation, oversized, and in addition, the Supreme Audit Office repeatedly stated years ago that much of this money is spent on organisations where we are no longer active and called on the Ministry to remedy which has not yet been implemented. These funds, this 1 billion, I propose to move to the chapter of the General Treasury Administration so that they primarily help Czech citizens, institutions and firms, namely the Government Budget Reserve of CZK 500 million, the Reserve to deal with crisis situations, prevent and eliminate their consequences of CZK 300 million and after CZK 100 million into items Reserve for extraordinary expenses under the Act on Integrated Rescue System and Export Support, Property Damage, State guarantees and Investment Incentives. These budget items have been highly undervalued in the long run, as has been seen recently, for example, in the liquidation of a large fire in Hřensko and other similar events, and support for our exports should also, let alone, at this time, the economic and social crisis and the risk of many jobs being lost, be clearly a state priority. The purpose of my third proposal is to increase the expenditure of the specific indicator Social expenditure, compensation, non-profit and similar organisations in the budget chapter General Treasury Administration, where I propose to grant an operating subsidy to the Czech Freedom Warriors Union of CZK 4.5 million. This would be an internal move within this budget chapter, by reducing the amount of expenditure in a specific indicator from CZK 64,500 000 000 to CZK 64 495 500 000 at the same time. The withdrawal of the budget operating subsidy to the Czech Freedom Warriors Union last year and the planned zero financial support of this organization by the state for the year 2023 is a step of supremely incorrect, unjustified, unfair, immoral and purely politically and ideologically purposefully motivated. It is a step taken solely with the intention of ideological and political reasons to damage the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom and its Members, but in particular the ideas and values it holds, especially respect for the legacy of fighters for our national and state liberation from the German occupation between 1939 and 1945. There is no other factual reason for this measure. The Czech Freedom Warriors Union has been an existing and very active organization for decades, it has thousands of members and many diverse activities, which are socially beneficial and important without exception, and which has always fully respected the laws of the Czech Republic in its activities. The Czech Freedom Warriors Union annually organizes dozens of commemorative acts commemorating heroes fighting for our national freedom, especially in World War II, throughout the Czech Republic. It is necessary to add to this the care of war memorials, war graves, lecture activities, youth work, care of the Memorial of the Czech resistance from 1939 to 1945 in the former Petschkův Palace and other important activities. Dear friends, I would like to ask you in this way to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u27	And I thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. So now, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, who has been duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Minister of Finance and Minister of Culture, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister of Culture for always being here, if possible, for my performance, and I very much appreciate it. It is clear that I will comment on the area of culture, and I must stop here at the promise of a government that is unfortunately not yet being fulfilled, and that is the allocation of 1% of the state budget to culture. I think we can only dream about the number, which means 1%, at this point in time. This year's budget does not respond to this, even though the Minister will certainly step out and declare here how the budget for this year has increased by almost 3 billion, but it is necessary to say that B that a large part of this amount comes from European funds and goes to projects that are specifically intended for this and is not divided into chapters where the money is needed most. Therefore, allow me to make a few amendments which, together with other colleagues, we are trying to prevent at least the greatest damage to our common cultural heritage and the preservation of cultural life. I would like to appeal to you that - and not only to you, but also to us - we should put aside ideological and political prejudices and approach proposals pragmatically, responsibly and factually. Our proposals are based on many recent meetings, and there are certainly no populist cries in which we would like to squeeze the Treasury. The point is to throw the culture a lifeline that will at least temporarily keep it afloat, even if it doesn't bring it ashore. The largest item proposed by us in the amount of CZK 200 million is directed to support cultural services and live art. Its addressees are professional theatres, permanent professional symphony orchestras and choirs. The reasons why my colleagues and I are promoting an increase in the budget in this chapter are clear over the sun. Living art had to cope with massive cuts, rising prices of energy, services, or fuel as early as 2022. All of this seriously threatens the activities of professional theatres and permanent symphony orchestras and choirs. The current situation places them on the very edge of existential possibilities. It would be catastrophic if bodies that have often existed for decades had to put an end to their activities at this time and dump them in a basket of tradition and years of honest work. Similarly, in our opinion, the situation is critical in the contribution organizations established by the Ministry of Culture. In this case, we also propose a total increase of CZK twice as much as CZK 100 million. Part should be intended primarily for salaries that are so low that there is a risk of a mass departure of highly qualified workers into other sectors. A further part beyond the current budget should also be used to cover the costs of increasing all the services and materials needed by the contribution organisations for their activities. The second 100 million crowns should then strengthen the programme of care for the national cultural treasure and heritage. Even in 2022, the inflation influence had to be taken into account. It is here that the preservation of cultural goods for the generation of our children and grandchildren is in play. [[16.00 hours]] I consider it equally important to increase expenditure on the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments of public service and museums. This relates specifically to two programmes, namely the programme for the protection and care of cultural goods and the programme for the preservation and restoration of cultural monuments. In the first case, we propose an increase of CZK 23 million with fellow Members Brož and Babka, in the second case CZK 164 million. Here too are the reasons for this. Both programmes were cut in 2022, while individual institutions have to struggle with higher energy prices, as well as construction materials and construction works. And as every layman knows, the repairs of cultural monuments are subject to particularly strict criteria, and therefore the reconstruction cannot be blown away in quotation marks by using less quality materials or by involving ordinary construction companies that do not have the necessary know-how. The aim should be as many repaired buildings as possible, which can be preserved for future generations, not only monuments in state ownership, but also monuments in the property of municipalities or private persons. However, this is not possible even on a scale that includes projects at different stages of development. I also consider it inevitable to strengthen the budget of the State Cinematography Fund, with which our proposal increases the budget by CZK 53 million. The reason for this is the increased prices of energy, fuel and services necessary for the fund's activities. Moreover, it is necessary to adjust the currently very undersized salaries of employees and professional externalists. It is essential to maintain the professional level of this institution. Finally, the last joint amendment concerns the promotion of the development and restoration of the material-technical base of regional cultural facilities. In this chapter, we propose adding CZK 39 million in terms of cuts in 2022, inflation and price increases in all inputs. The aim is to support the construction of important cultural stands, but also the restoration of existing ones, in all regions of the Czech Republic. I believe I haven't kept you for too long, because culture certainly deserves more than these few minutes that have now taken place. I would like to appeal to you once again that when voting on amendments, we forget about party books and follow our own reasoning. In this case, it is not political leaders, but it is that we remain a nation in times of crisis that honors cultural heritage and cares for its cultural life. This is the way I am signing up for the amendments under the numbers 1582, 1583, 1584, 1585 and 1586. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u29	Thank you, Madame. Prime Minister Baxa is now reporting with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u30	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, my dear colleagues, because of my foreign business trip, I did not have the opportunity to speak at the first reading of the draft State budget for 2023, so in the context of Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's amendments, I will actually say a few sentences relating to the draft budget. I think it can't be said by the way - the Minister will say - that we have a record budget, because the answer is that it's really the highest budget that the Ministry of Culture has had outside of covido time, and it's not a matter of course. I have put forward this proposal, the Government has agreed it, put it in the House at a time which is extremely difficult, when the state budget must deal with a combination of Putinův's devastating effects of aggression against Ukraine and the energy crisis, and despite these difficult external circumstances, Madame, through the Vice-President, the government has done exactly what you called for at the end of your speech, which means that it has recognised the area of culture as highly supportive and, in a number of segments, there has been an increase in the various budget items of my ministry, my budget chapter, precisely in favour of culture and its functioning at this difficult time. All the parts of the indicator you mentioned have increased, cultural activities have exceeded CZK 800 million, and a programme of support for professional theatres and symphony orchestras has increased to CZK 400 million. The draft amendment to the budget or amendment to the budget of this year, as well as in the draft budget for next year, strengthens the expenditure of the contribution organisations during the period of energy distress. Everything you're talking about has happened in my budget, and the government has taken that into account. In addition, we have also taken other key structural steps. A system of film incentives has been restored, including the fact that this sum is written into budgetary projections, and we have also received some funds for investment. I completely disagree with the interpretation that sometimes appears that the more than 2 billion on the National Recovery Plan are actually such as the mandatorial expenses that it could not have been otherwise. Madame, if we hadn't introduced the crisis project management of the National Recovery Plan after taking up the ministry, culture wouldn't have exhausted it. Nothing! Instead, we have secured a system that will actually allow gradually to draw on CZK 2 billion and which means essential assistance to the cultural sector in the infrastructure segment and financing activities that have never really been financed from the Ministry of Culture's budget to this extent, whether it is the interconnection of culture and education, individual cultural projects abroad, or the promotion of business in the creative industries. So it's all thanks to the National Recovery Plan, which will mean a very important impetus to the further development of culture. I understand you need to be a member of the key government to do something, to say something here, to suggest something here, but it really needs to be put into some particular context of numbers. [[Shadow?]] And then I dare say one more thing. When you talk about 1 percent of the culture, you have not been a Member in the last parliamentary term, but many of your colleagues will certainly like to remind you of what the former Prime Minister and the former Minister of Finance mentioned here, that is, the unprecedented prosperity that was reflected in the huge revenues of the state budget before the covido crisis 2020, when the spending of the state rose by in principle by 50 percent, by hundreds of billions of crowns, and we must say that the government led by the ANO movement and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš did nothing to bring 1 percent of the expenditure of the state budget for culture closer to it, at a time when it was painless in quotes and when the huge increases would have really lost a few billion crowns for the culture sector, if, Mrs. During the reign of the ANO movement, social democracy and KSČM just didn't happen. And we are now increasing our spending in the field of culture at a time that is economically completely reversed and unfavourable compared to what the Czech economy experienced during the reign of Andrej Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u31	Thank you, Minister. Before the lady comes forward with a point of fact, I shall make two apologies. At 16 o'clock Mrs Karla Maříková apologizes for reasons of work, and at 16 o'clock without giving any reason for apologizing to Mr Robert Stržínek. And now, with the factual remark of Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u32	I would like to respond to the Minister. Minister, I said that the $3 billion increase is mostly from European money, and that is, that is not what we are talking about here. It is the National Recovery Plan, which is designed and most drawn up in the chapter, but which does not cover the programmes that I have raised here, which I am raising in my amendment. If I'm right, it's the Creative and Cultural Industry, that's the name of the chapter. I compared this year's budget, the original one that Mrs Schillerová was still preparing, which you then crossed out, and then you came back recently, or yesterday, and we interrupted or overruled the President's veto. So, of course, it is absolutely excellent for me that there are 3 billion extra in the culture, but unfortunately, the money cannot cover the programs that we are trying to secure financially by our amendments. [[16.10 hours]] I think it's nothing against you, no attack on you or the government, we're just trying to keep you, too, so that even the regions, cities, municipalities, private owners, for example, can continue repairing their property, which are protected monuments, because those programs simply haven't been filled financially. And I don't think it's against anything. At this point, I think it's great to support the creative industry, but on the other hand, I think it's even cooler to keep our sights in order to remain for generations to come, and that's just going to be very difficult in this budget. And you're right, I wasn't a member of the past period, and if I remember correctly, the Ministry of Culture had the ANO movement for a very short period of time, a few months in the interim government. So it's just to say the information as it is. And it's 2022, you're defending the budget for 2023, and that's your full budget and your responsibility! [[Your time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u33	Thank you. The Minister of Finance responds with a factual remark. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u34	It's our budget, it's our responsibility, and you can see in those figures that culture is a priority of the Czech government. It's not for the microphone, but we can sometimes tell ourselves how catastrophic we've taken over the film incentives that we've dealt with not only on the domestic scene, but also abroad, and that we've put the system together and it's gonna work. We can talk again in a year. I know we always tell each other in advance that it's planned, but that time can judge us. And if you look at the system approach we've taken to movie incentives, it's without pictures of the Minister of Finance and without a visit from the Minister of Culture that someone's spilled... And the second thing is general, and again, it is not an attack on the Member, through the Vice-President. We really do the budget differently, you don't want to understand. You always say, "I want to support the particular ministerial minister in his struggle with the government." You said you wanted to support the Minister of Culture in his chapter. But we don't really think like that. I will defend all chapters regardless of whether it is the Minister for the ODS or any other political party. I don't quite accept the excuses of the kind: it's not our resort. We know this from coalition governments: Apart from the transitional government that did not have the confidence of the House, it never really happened that it would be a monochrome government, and it probably would not happen in our electoral system. So, I imagine there's more money in there. Which one of us couldn't have imagined more money in there? On the other hand, if we put it in context, we compare it with the other chapters, so I think the resort of culture is doing well. We don't have to convince each other that some programs need more money, but it's all debt, unfortunately. We are not in excess of the state budget, so we are considering the priorities of individual ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u35	I thank you for keeping time. Now, therefore, Mr Patrik Nacher and Mrs Jana Berkovcová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u36	Mr Vice-President, Minister, thank you for the floor. In the beginning, I would like to thank you for the goodwill. I've asked the Vice-President that I have some parenting duties to assign me somehow. Eventually it went so fast that it wasn't even necessary. Now it's a little jammed, so maybe I could use the offer generously, but it doesn't matter. We are at second reading, so without any political deposits, I will allow myself to read two amendments. If the Minister of Finance could pay a little attention to me, then I will defend it in detail at the third reading, but here I would just like to explain it easily. One amendment concerns ČTÚ - Czech Telecommunications Office, under number 1553, where I raise the amount to ČTÚ by 34 million. What makes me say that? It leads me to believe that the proposed budget, if I deduct the billion and a half that goes to the Czech Post office, is 722 277 000 and some change, which is 34 million under the original 2022 proposal. Here I will remind you that from January 2022, the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act applies, and from 1 July, even the thing that helps us all, that is, a novel that deals with annoying aggressive telemarketing. In other words, ČTÚ's demands are increasing and it should be taken into account for me in some way in that budget. I'm not saying it should go up significantly, but the way the budget is designed for the Czech Television, there is even a year-on-year decline. This is therefore an amendment under number 1553. The second under number 1554 is even more recent because it concerns increasing funds for the Energy Regulatory Authority. There it is expected to be 306 643 000, which is 1.5 percent more than it was in the original 2022 proposal, which was 301 million. I dare say that doesn't take into account the situation that currently is, and I'm just going to say two examples in the second reading. Firstly, and you could read the report yesterday, when the Energy Regulatory Authority published a multiple increase in complaints about energy suppliers, which is threefold compared to last year - logically. Logically now, different people, consumers are changing energy suppliers, rising prices, somewhere someone is going to get an offer without ending fixation, so disputes in the logic of the matter - we also say, we are describing the current time as an energy crisis and we all advise that dissatisfied people turn to the Energy Regulatory Authority. This means that when there are multiple stimuli, it should also be taken into account in order to be able to be officeized, because otherwise we're sending these people somewhere they're waiting. The second reason I'm writing in the explanatory statement is that it counts - I was based on the media - that the ERÚ will be responsible for managing the new tax on unexpected profits, which so far looks like it probably won't, but what I'm sure will be, and I've heard on the budget committee yesterday and today on the economics, that it will definitely be the administrator of the over-income payments we're discussing - the ERO, which is the 335 press, if I remember correctly, we'll discuss it here on Friday. This means that, in addition to greater pressure from consumers - natural - there is actually administration of a completely new levy, that is, a whole new competence. Therefore, I would like to propose this amendment, where the amount will increase from Chapter 398, the General Treasury, by just CZK 14 million, so it is not a cut. It is more like a principal symbolic thing in relation to the ERO, which consumers are supposed to turn to, and, on the one hand, to be the administrator of a new tax, or if you want a levy - I will not argue about it now, that is not the case. I think, and I'm going to fight for it, that it has its ratio, and it certainly isn't, let me just say, billions of cuts. So much. That is why I have asked the Minister for his attention, and I will be for these two amendments, which are based on my consumer protection policy, because both of these institutions are out-of-court bodies, so I will fight for them. So once again - Amendments 1553, 1554. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u37	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mrs Jana Berkovcová and Mr Milan Feranec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u38	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to present to you my two amendments amending the Government's draft Act on the State Budget in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education as follows: in the specific indicator Regional Education expenditure and directly managed organisations expenditure increases by CZK 4,300,000. In Chapter 398, the General Treasury, a specific indicator of the Government Budget Reserve, there is a reduction of CZK 4,300,000. [[16.20 hours]] Although the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2023 envisages an increase of 4% in the salaries of teachers and other teaching staff, this increase appears to be completely inadequate, and, on the one hand, compared to a significantly higher planned increase in the salaries of police officers or soldiers, as well as due to the current level of inflation, which is around 17 percent. The nominal salaries of teachers may rise, but real wages will fall significantly. In its programme statement, the government undertook to maintain the level of salaries of pedagogical workers to 130 percent of the average wage in the Czech Republic. While teachers' salaries amounted to 119 percent of the average wages in the Czech Republic in 2021, in 2023 it should be only 110 percent. The salaries of teaching staff will thus return four years back to the level of 2019. Similarly, in 2021, teachers' salaries amounted to 126 percent of the average wages in the Czech Republic, while in 2023 it was only 117 percent. This amendment is entered in the system under number 1498. The second amendment under number 1499 amends the Government's draft law on the state budget in Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, as follows: in the specific indicator The expenditure of regional education and directly managed organisations increases by CZK 1,100,000 and in Chapter 398, the General Treasury, in the specific indicator The Government's budgetary reserve is reduced by CZK 1,100,000. The government bill on the state budget for next year lacks funding to provide support measures, especially staffing of teachers' assistants amounting to CZK 1.1 billion for public kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools. This is calculated on full-time basis of 2,216 employees. I quote from the Ministry of Education's material to the Government Bill on the State Budget, which states: "In the field of payroll there is no guarantee of a real increase in personnel support measures, in particular the assistants of the teacher, this is the newly recommended and provided support measures, from January 2022, amounting to CZK 1 111 000 000, including the corresponding number of employees of 2,216 according to the state of the aid measures declared on 1 October 2022. Teacher's assistant is a strong help to teachers who teach pupils with special educational needs. If schools cannot employ them, this will significantly reduce the quality of education of all pupils in the classroom. The teacher will be alone in the classroom and will not be able to devote himself to all pupils individually. Abroad, the number of assistants is significantly higher than in the Czech Republic and therefore it makes no sense to reduce this number somehow. The proposed appropriations for budget chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, have not been repeatedly exhausted in previous financial years and therefore appear appropriate for use in favour of education. Indeed, the funding invested in education has a very high return, albeit over a longer period of time than one parliamentary term. Thank you and I will be happy to support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u39	Thank you, too, Madame. I will now ask Mr Milan Feranc to speak and prepare Mr Oldřich Černý. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in brief on my amendment. Basically, in Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, the specific indicator of the expenditure held in the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system under heading 29822, the action financed by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and the Government of the Czech Republic, increases by CZK 60 million, namely the investment action of the subsidy for the settlement of the conditions for the performance of the state administration carried out by the statutory city of Olomouc. In Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, in a specific indicator, reduces the amount by 60 million. These changes will subsequently be reflected in the annexes and in the list of subsidies for 2023. Very brief reasoning. It is the case that the statutory city, of course, has exercised the transferred competence of the state administration over the long term, carried out the transport administrative agenda in a rented building from the Regional Police Directorate. This loan ends 31. 12. 2023, while indebted, the city does not have enough resources to acquire another building or invest in another building, and thus it may jeopardise the performance of the state administration, the transport administrative agenda. The Mayor of the City has repeatedly discussed this at the Ministry of the Interior, at the Ministry of Finance, at the level of the Deputys. Everyone has expressed their understanding of this solution, and the House is of course decisive. In detail, I refer to House document 1596, which I hereby subscribe to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u41	Thank you, too. I'll read one apology. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák has been apologizing since 16.15 for health reasons. I will now request a speech from Mr Vojtěch Munzar and prepare for Mr Marek Novák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, for a group of coalition Members, to sign up for the amendment you will find in the system under number 1627. In terms of the volume of the state budget, this is a very small proposal, but I consider it very important. This proposal aims to maintain continuity in the financing of associations that care for the legacy of modern history, in the same amount and in the same volume and for the same associations as in 2022, because we submitters consider our modern history to be very important for the whole society. Specifically, it is the Platform of European Memory and Conscience, the Association for the Conservation of the Link of the Czech Resistance, the Association without Communist.cz, in a total amount of CZK 1 million. If you remember correctly, during this year's budget discussion, for 2022, this million was intended for these associations from the original item 1 million CZK, which was originally intended for the Czech Union of Freedom Warriors, because this item is no longer in the budget. This time we propose it from the government's budget reserve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Marek Novák will now prepare Mrs Renata Zajíčková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear fellow Members, Minister, allow me to make three amendments in the context of the review of the State Budget Act for 2023. These are financial transfers that will help address the difficult situation in the area of the risk behaviour of school youth and, in particular, drug prevention. In the next proposal it is necessary to help Minister Síkel, who forgot to set the rules within his department in accordance with the Civil Service Act, so we would straighten it out there. Right now, specifically. Firstly, I propose in Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, to increase the expenditure of the cross-cutting indicator of the Drug Policy Programme by CZK 50 million. I propose to move these funds from Chapter 321, Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, to other subjects. The reason is simple and alarming. The latest European report on drugs, issued by the European Monitoring Centre in June 2022, draws attention to the relatively high availability of drugs in the European region and the occurrence of new substances that pose health risks. I've been talking about these a few times, and in the last few days, the media have noticed, and I think someone more sensible than me has started to talk about it, but thank you to the media. [[16.30 hours]] Alcohol consumption, daily drinking and the incidence of excessive alcohol consumption in the Czech Republic are among the highest in the world. Moreover, compared to European countries, the level of experience with the use of illegal drugs in the Czech Republic is very high in the population of our children. The consumption of cannabis and ecstasy in our youth is above average, even in adolescents. Furthermore, the Czech Republic exhibits an above-average rate of injecting drug use with a characteristic high incidence of problem meth use. That is why I think it is precisely the preventive work to combat addictive substances that is important. I am talking about primary prevention, not subsequent prevention, but basically primary prevention, which is insufficient in the Czech Republic. The funds transferred would be directed to 4,200 schools, with one specialized prevention methodology in each school as it is today. However, the prevention methodology will thus increase the monthly contribution by CZK 1,000. I think that, as part of the work of prevention methodologies, it deserves to be done in relation to how they are rewarded today. It is really about our children, and I believe you will support this proposal. Furthermore, in Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education for Youth and Sports, expenditure of the cross-cutting indicator Social Prevention and Crime Prevention Programme, I propose to increase by CZK 95 million. I propose to transfer these funds from the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator of the State Debt Service by CZK 95 million. Again, this amount is aimed at school youth and risk prevention, because it is the prevention of risk behaviour in schools that is an effective tool that can be positively influenced by the values and attitudes of children and adolescents, including those who do not have sufficient family and social backgrounds or support. That's why they need help. Moreover, the effectiveness of preventive work in terms of an effective positive effect on behaviour changes is higher in children and adolescents than in adults. Supporting the prevention of risk behaviour in schools can prevent health, social, educational and other risks to individuals and consequently to the whole society. In implementing effective primarily preventive programmes, it is appropriate to address the target group in their natural environment or in their community, namely the school. The funds transferred will help to promote educational, educational, health, social and other interventions aimed at preventing the occurrence of risk behaviour, preventing further progression, mitigating existing forms and manifestations of risk behaviour and helping to address its consequences. The transferred funds will thus be used by the Ministry of Education to support primary prevention of risk behaviour for 950 000 pupils, with a total of CZK 100 per pupil. You hear well, one hundred crowns for each pupil. That's the proposal. Programmes would aim in particular at preventing and reducing the occurrence of different forms of risk behaviour. Indeed, we live in a turbulent time that seduces fast and easy solutions and threats to young people of any kind today we see at every step. I beg you to support this proposal as well. As far as the latest proposal is concerned, it concerns the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Here I propose in Chapter 328, the Czech Telecommunications Office, to increase the expenditure of the cross-cutting indicator of the Staff Salary in Service Points by an amount of 64 million. The reason for the transfer is very simple. I suppose that even Minister of Industry Síkela will be right that there was a situation that was unwittingly created, that according to the government's programme statement, employees' salaries were increased, as well as the Czech Telecommunications Office. However, this increase was not reflected in the appropriations in Chapter 328. I therefore propose this amendment to remedy the situation caused by the Gestures Ministry of Industry and Trade. I also make this proposal taking into account the effectiveness of the activities of the Czech Telecommunications Authority's output. For this reason too, it is appropriate to move the funds in such a way as to achieve a fair assessment of the staff employed here. This objective will be achieved due to the reduction of the total amount of staff salaries at other posts under the Civil Service Act, where these tables are often not even occupied. These amendments, which I have presented to you, are registered under the numbers 1562, 1563 and 1564 in the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u45	Thank you, too. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. We will continue, we are in a general debate. Mrs Zajíčková will be next and Mr Brabec will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I come up with an amendment. I would like to start by saying that I represent coalition Members here, so the amendment is from the pen of Marek Výborný, Pavel Klíma, Jan Berki, Jakub Michálek, and I am also signed under it. This amendment relates to Chapter 333, which is therefore the chapter of the Ministry of Education for Youth and Sports. You can find him under number 1601. What is this amendment about? This amendment relates to the work of the Czech School Inspectorate, namely the work of inspectors of the Czech School Inspectorate. It should be added that the Czech School Inspectorate is actually the only national authority that evaluates the quality and effectiveness of education in regional education. It is widely known that in recent years relatively significant amounts of funding have flowed and flowed into regional education. Czech school inspection is the only authority that can evaluate, monitor how these increased funds translate into the quality of education in our kindergarten, primary and secondary schools. It must be said that school inspectors are civil servants, but there is one more thing that is put on them. Not only are they civil servants, i.e. civil servants, but they have to comply with the requirement of school law, when they actually have to be pedagogical workers with five years of experience. Given that they control and evaluate the work of primary, kindergarten and secondary schools and actually the work of directors, these people are expected to be highly erudized, that it will be experienced people who will have great knowledge, great insight into the issue, they will be able to methodically manage the school directors and their work, so the demands on inspectors are relatively high, but their financial evaluation currently does not correspond to the average salary of a teacher in regional education. Just in your opinion, the salaries of directors in the Czech Republic - we are talking of course about regional education - range from CZK 75 to CZK 90 000, of course it is also according to the region and according to the type of school, the average salary of the teacher is CZK 49 000 and the average salary of the inspector is CZK 45 000, so the average salary of the inspector of the Czech School Inspector is less than the average salary of the teacher. This must be - it should be changed, because the inspector should have a position that will be respected, which will be the authority that will have the respect that will affect the quality of our schools. [[16.40 hours]] The proposal brought forward by this amendment actually contains a change in Chapter 333, as I have already said, when the expenditure indicator increases by a total of CZK 20 million, and the indicator The other expenditure on securing the tasks of the resort increases by CZK 20 million. Furthermore, the cross-cutting indicator of Employees' salaries and other payments for the work done is increased by CZK 14 727 540, the cross-cutting indicator Mandatory insurance paid by the employer is increased by CZK 4 977 909 and the cross-cutting indicator Basic allocation to the Fund of Cultural and Social Needs is increased by CZK 294 551. And the last cross-cutting indicator of the employee's salary at service posts under the Civil Service Act is increased by CZK 14,727 540. In Annex No.4 in Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, the indicator Total expenditure is reduced by CZK 20 million and the specific indicator The Government Budget Reserve is reduced by CZK 20 million. This change or this change will make it possible to increase the excess components of inspectors so that their average salary increases to at least CZK 50,000 and is competitive at least in relation to teachers. I hereby thank you, if you support this amendment, this will undoubtedly translate into a stabilization of the Czech School Inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u47	Yes, thank you. The next will be presented in the order of the detailed debate by Mr Brabec, Mrs Štefanová will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u48	Thanks for the word. Mr President, fellow Members, honourable Government - I do not see the Minister of Finance anywhere here - because I, before I get there, will be very brief, to justify my amendments, I would like to return briefly to the budget as such, i.e. to follow up on what Mrs Shadow Finance Minister Alena Schillerová, President of our parliamentary club, said here about - forgive me for the expression - the sum of CZK 50 billion sucked out of my finger, which is stuck in the chapter of the Ministry of the Environment, i.e. Chapter 315. They're stuck in income, not in expenses. I'm quite detective work trying to figure out how the amount landed there, who suggested it there, why just CZK 50 billion, such an incredible astronomical number, which is more than 50 percent of the revenue of that chapter, and I have to say that I got embarrassed by several officials, including my former colleagues from the Ministry of the Environment, because no one was actually able to tell how that amount came into existence. It wasn't until they finally agreed that it was somehow created on the government after the agreement of three ministers, but none of those ministers and ministers were able to tell me how it got there anyway. So I got back to the beginning circle, and so I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance, because if the Ministry of the Environment had that amount in real life, as I said here during my last performance, the singing birds would be trylking over Vršovická 65 and the rainbow would be there, because the Ministry never had a similar amount in the budget. Unfortunately, it is purely virtual, so these 50 billion really - and I am deeply convinced of that - serve only as a reduction in the state budget deficit, but the Ministry of the Environment, my favourite ministry, will not profit from this amount. And I repeat here again that I would never, as the former Minister of the Environment, dare to come to this magnificent Chamber of Deputies with such a floating budget and try to convince you to approve it, because it is simply not supported, I am deeply convinced of it, neither legislatively nor factually, but it is obviously covered by some veil of secrecy. I guess I'm gonna go back to that, or I'm definitely gonna go back to that, but I don't know if we're gonna know anything more about it tonight. So I have to say here that the real budget - and that's why I couldn't vote for it on the Environment Committee - has gone through one vote on the committee - the budget of Chapter 315, which is the budget of the Ministry of the Environment, I consider artificially bloated. And not only this year, next year, but also in the medium term, that amount of 50 billion is actually in 2024 and 2025, it is at the expense of the Modernisation Fund, but it is no longer in the budget of the State Environmental Fund, where it would have to be so that it could get anywhere at all. So it's really Houdini's rag, as I said in my last performance here - he'd be jealous of this budget scam. Now I'm going to return with a calmer voice - but even now I don't think it's excited, you know me, it really has to be to speak with some really thunderous voice - now I'm going back to the amendments I would like to put forward. Both relate to Chapter 315 and coincidentally to the House press 315, i.e. to the Chapter of the Ministry of Environment. These are proposals that are in the system under the number 1603 and 1604, which I therefore apply to at the same time. The proposal 1603 concerns an increase in expenditure in the chapter Nature and Landscape Protection, namely the Landscape Care Programme, by a sum of CZK 100 million. The reason - very briefly, the program is long-term very interesting, effective, it is hundreds, sometimes thousands of concrete measures in nature - planting trees, restoring wetlands, digging valuable meadows. In a number of cases, associations, sometimes municipalities, smaller municipalities are involved. It is a very simple, welcome source of money, there is 200 million crowns in the proposal. I would therefore like to increase it by CZK 100 million to CZK 300 million as a total amount and I believe that this money would be spent very effectively. The second amendment, i.e. 1604 in the House system, concerns the chapter Other activities in the environment and, in particular, damage to agricultural and forestry difficulties. So here again I propose to increase this chapter by CZK 100 million. The reason for this is that the entitlement to payment of these compensations for the difficulty of farming, agriculture and forestry, which takes place in some protected areas, whether national parks or protected landscape areas, is essentially a mandatory expenditure because it is based on the law, and either it is reimbursed by the Nature and Landscape Agency or national parks, and that amount is clearly insufficient next year. And that means it should be increased, because if it is not increased, the Ministry will have to come in the course of next year and ask for an increase in this amount, and I estimate at this point that it will need at least CZK 100 million higher. That is why I decided to give this amendment, which is to increase the amount of CZK 100 million in the next year's injury chapter for the difficulty of farming. So, in conclusion, I repeat, Amendments 1603 and 1604, both to Chapter 315, to which I hereby declare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next will be Mrs Štefanová Iveta, Mr Vondráček will be prepared. So, madam, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to my two amendments to the national budget for 2023. According to the first amendment, first of all, in budget chapter 398, the General Treasury Report reduces expenditure so that the specific indicator of the expenditures called the Government Budget Reserve is reduced by CZK 400 million. [[16.50 hours]] Secondly, in budget chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health, expenditure is increasing by increasing the specific indicator Expenditures called Research and Development in Health by CZK 400 million. The financing of research and development in the Czech Republic is long-term and needs to be changed. In addition to preventing the tide of scientists and researchers from studying abroad in the Czech Republic, the ability to create enough medical devices and medicines for Czech citizens must be strengthened especially in the time of the crisis. The research and development products to which this funding should be directed should be easy to use in practice, as the Czech Republic needs to rapidly strengthen self-sufficiency in the health sector as well. According to my second proposal, first of all, in budget chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration reduces expenditure by reducing the specific indicator Expenditures called the Government Budget Reserve by CZK 70 million. Secondly, in budget chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health, expenditure is increasing by increasing the specific indicator Expenditure on state administration in the amount of resources for staff salaries and other salaries for the work done by county health stations by CZK 70 million. The budget for 2022, as well as the budget for 2023, reduces the financing of regional sanitation stations, even though it has proved important in recent years to play an important role in times of crisis. That is why I propose to return the funds to regional health station salaries with this amendment. The amendments are read in the system as House Documents 1618 and 1619. The detailed reasoning is part of these House documents. Please support these proposals and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u51	Thank you very much. Next up, Mr Vondráček. Before arriving at the microphone, I will include an apology: Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová Jana has been apologizing since 16.45 for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mrs Šafránková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u52	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm certainly not interested in stalling here in any way, having a long gig. To the very beginning, I submit to my amendment, which I hope is being conducted in the system under number 1622. I don't have it written around here, so hopefully I remember it well. I have already had a debate here with the Minister of Finance Stanjura, when we amended the budget for 2022, and the subject was still the same, and that is a lack of salary evaluation of the court staff and the prosecutor's office. We were promised some kind of correction. I think it's done about 50 percent, because what I have information, the contribution, or the measure that's being handled has covered 47 percent of what's been promised. This means that tariffs will increase by 10 percent in this area, and we were here in a situation where justice officials were talking about a possible collapse, a completely catastrophic situation, a threat to the functioning of the courts at all. At all, the area of evaluation of judicial workers is a long-term problem. I was right here admitting that even in the time of YES, when we had the ministry, that was the problem and couldn't solve it. However, the current crisis, the double-digit inflation, is causing this problem to be exposed and it needs to be dealt with really acutely. I know that there has been a meeting between the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance and the representatives of the judiciary, and some promises have been made, but I have not found their image in the budget that is now being presented to us. The government declared at the meeting with the supreme representatives of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice that it would, over the next three years, equal the average salaries of the judicial staff to the average salaries of the public administration staff. The difference between these values is currently approximately CZK 7,000. I was performing here on October 18th, I said the sums, I showed the table - I think those who are interested in the matter so know and have an overview of how the matter is. Therefore, if the government wanted to meet that promise, it should increase the salaries of employees in the courts by around 6,5 per cent each year. During negotiations with the representatives of the judiciary, the government neglected to include in the plan the salaries of the administrative staff of the public prosecutors, so I took the liberty of including them in my amendment, and I propose that the budget chapter of the Ministry of Justice should be increased by CZK 416 919 270 in the draft state budget for 2023, which corresponds to an increase of more than 11 000 members of the courts and public prosecutors of 6.5 %. The amount already includes legal contributions, including contributions to the FKSP. The employees of the courts and prosecutors are undervalued in the long term, which has an unfortunate impact on the competitiveness of judicial organizational components in the labour market and prevents the provision of high-quality staff for the performance of the judiciary in the Czech Republic. As a result, high-quality long-term justice workers are also leaving other areas of public administration, while ensuring high-quality and adequate compensation is virtually impossible in the current budgetary situation of the courts and prosecutors. Therefore, I believe that it is absolutely necessary if we want to maintain a functioning judicial system if we want to maintain the rule of law in the Czech Republic, in some crucial way to move forward with this solution, and therefore I propose that, in Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice, data on the general indicator of Expenditure increase by a total amount of CZK 467 919 270. Thank you for your attention. I'll probably have to save the debate with the Minister of Finance for another time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u53	Mrs Šafránková, Vice-President Dostálová, will take the next step in the detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose five amendments to the Government's proposal on the budget, which are led under the numbers of the Chambers of Documents 1549, 1550, 1551, 1565 and 1566, and I hereby declare them. In the first of these, I propose to transfer, within budget chapter 313, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, CZK 3 300 000 000 from the specific expenditure indicator Benefits of aid in material distress to the following specific expenditure indicators: 1 billion to Benefits of disabled persons, 300 million to Substitute maintenance for the dependent child and CZK 2 billion to the Care allowance under the Social Services Act. I consider the increase in expenditure under the budget heading Benefits of aid in material distress by more than 80 per cent year-on-year is totally incorrect and unjustified. I would consider it to be fully sufficient if this increase corresponds to the annual rate of inflation, to the max, because others, in terms of maintaining social stability and social reconciliation, are far from achieving an increase in this budget chapter. Let us also note that these are partly social welfare expenditures, which are most often abused by people who avoid work in the long term, although they can work. I have tried twice to prevent such abuse of social benefits by the very extensive amendment to the Act on Aid in Material Need, which, however, has been rejected repeatedly, last time this year by government Members. In such a situation, I do not consider it very reasonable and responsible to increase the amount of funds allocated to these benefits. I therefore propose to move CZK 3 300 000 000 from this budget heading to items which, on the contrary, are raised very inadequately or which do not correspond to the needs of the purpose for which they are set up. [[17,00 hours]] The second proposal includes the withdrawal of CZK 4 billion from the item Subsidy for renewable energy sources from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and their transfer to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely the specific expenditure indicator Benefits of State social support and foster care. Increase in expenditure under the budget heading In view of the situation in the field of energy, subsidies for renewable energy sources, compared to last year, can be regarded as completely unjustified and oversized and, in terms of public interest, there are much more pressing priorities, for example, in the field of social and national policy. On the contrary, I propose to increase the amount of expenditure under the budget item State social support benefits and foster care, which the government proposes to increase by just 3% compared to 2022, which is severely inadequate at a time of almost 20% of inflation, especially because the number of people who, mainly due to high energy prices, are asking for a housing allowance, which is part of the welfare benefits, like for example, child allowance. The same applies to the welfare benefits. The third proposal relates to the transfer of CZK 6 450 000 000 from the budget chapter of the General Treasury from the specific expenditure indicator To the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely to the following expenditure indicators: Firstly, for non-investment non-payment transfers there I want to increase by CZK 3 billion and this is a financial strengthening of the budget item from which the social services, facilities for children, seniors, disabled people and so on are financed. It is a budget item that is permanently underfunded and is often allocated to it long before the end of the relevant calendar year or financial year. This is all the more true at a time of rapidly rising inflation and prices of the vast majority of goods and services and the operating expenditure of these social services facilities. Secondly, by an increase of CZK 450 million to the salaries of employees in employment, excluding staff in employment. It is the salaries of employees in the Department of Labour and Social Affairs outside of the posts. The government even proposes a reduction in expenditure compared to 2022, not relative, but absolute, which is unacceptable. These employees, despite a large increase in workload in recent years, have not had an increase in their tariff wages for almost two years. And thirdly, I propose an increase of CZK 3 billion to the salaries of employees at service posts under the Civil Service Act. Under this heading, the government proposes an increase of only less than 3% compared to 2022. This has no justification in the current situation with regard to inflation growth and that there has been no wage increases for these employees for more than a year, and this is insufficient. The fourth proposal concerns the transfer of CZK 100 million from the indicator of Benefits of Assistance in material distress to the budget heading Transfers to territorial budgets for the social and legal protection of children under the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where I want to support financially the facilities providing care and protection for children requiring immediate assistance. And in the last, fifth proposal, it is also a transfer of CZK 100 million from the already mentioned item Subsidy for renewable energy sources into the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and specifically to benefits for disabled persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u55	Yes, thank you, Madame. Next, Vice-President Dostálová will appear and Mr Kott will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 1578, and if you don't mind, I would like to start with such strong arguments as to why this amendment, so several figures: compared to last year, the construction of new flats -28.6% started. The mortgages are currently at 5.76 %, a year-on-year decrease of 78 percent. The draft budget of the Ministry for Regional Development contains CZK 15 million in the chapter Housing Support, so it is clear that with CZK 15 million, Minister Bartoš will not be able to do much. So I would very much like us to agree that housing support is a priority not only for this government, but for the entire Chamber of Deputies, because at this time, when it is clear that no one really can achieve property housing, especially from young people, it is necessary to focus on rental housing and cooperative housing. And if we're looking for a way that's fast, cheap, and basically instantly instantly solvable, it's really a subsidy program to solve multigenerational houses. A lot of our seniors live in multigenerational houses, and they would very much like to modify their homes to, for example, two separate housing units. They don't need much to do it, they need resources to have separate entrances and separate social facilities in each apartment. Therefore, I would like to propose that the chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development on Housing Support Expenditures by CZK 300 million at the expense of the General Treasury, i.e. the general indicator of Expenditure, the Government Budget Reserve, by the amount of CZK 300 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u57	Thank you, too. Mr Kott will be next in line, Mr Koten will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, Ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to propose once again the amendment which is in the system under House document 1631. And it is just as I have commented here on the increase in spending on the organisation's activities, as well as for 2023, and here the real need for funds in the order of CZK 12 million is actually underestimated, so in Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure and specific indicator Other expenditure on the state policy of the resort, inspection, control and research activities by CZK 12 million and in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, expenditures, aggregate indicators Total expenditure, and specific indicators of the Government Budget Reserve of CZK 12 million are being reduced. At the same time, the corresponding parts of the bill, including the annexes, are being modified. I apologize to those who will find my reasoning similar to what I presented here in amending the budget for 2022, but it really is that the periodicals that come out, whether it concerns beekeepers, fishermen or hunters, are really very professional and are very hard to find some advertising activity that would make it cheaper. I want to add that it's not that the associations are basically waiting for them to get their funds out of the state budget alone. There is - or certainly is now - and next year it will probably be clear that there will be - an increase in membership contributions in individual organisations, but the state's financial assistance still seems inevitable. The 12 million crowns are within the periodical: 6 million concerning beekeepers, a million fishermen and 5 million for hunters. I would therefore like to subscribe to House document 1631 and ask for your support. [[17.10 hours]] I would also like to sign up here for the House document 1587, which was justified here by my colleague Karel Tureček. This is actually the funds that are missing for the activities of beekeepers, and specifically in the budget compared to 2021, and with 2022, there are CZK 57 million missing. In the current state of beekeeping, when we talk about the need for a varied landscape and we want some balanced crop structure, this autumn there is a very significant death of hives within the Czech Republic, and I believe that spring inventory will not be any favorable for the breeding of hives. So for this reason, I would also like to ask for the support of the proposal presented here by my colleague Tureček, and I believe that it would be necessary or at least appropriate to bear in mind that this activity without the support of the Ministry of Agriculture could be damaged, if prices were to rise, it would not have to develop quite well over the next few years. And this, what I was just talking about, is the support of House document 1587. Thank you for your attention and subsequent support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u59	Thank you. Mr Kott... Mr Koten, Mr Haas will be ready, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present here my amendment to the state budget, under House document 1621. It is the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023 and is amended as follows: Firstly, the increase in expenditure - in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, the specific indicator The expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic increases by CZK 200 million in the undergroup of 501 Plata. Secondly, the reduction in expenditure - in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, the specific indicator The expenditure on ensuring the performance of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational units of the State is reduced by CZK 55 million in the sub-group 516 Purchase of services, in respect of the funds earmarked for the issue of personal documents with biometrics. Specifically, it is a limitation of funds for the issue of electronic civil certificates with a chip for maintaining the issue of these documents on a voluntary basis, i.e. it applies to citizens of the Czech Republic. For further financial security of measures in the context of the migration situation in the European Union and the Czech Republic, in addition to the part of the funds earmarked to support the fight against illegal migration, border security and return policy for which funding is to be maintained in full. Thirdly, in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, the specific indicator Expenditure on ensuring the performance of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational units of the State is reduced by an additional 10 million in sub-group 532, non-investment transfers to public budgets of the territorial level and is a subsidy for the security of asylum seekers in the area of housing, subsidy to municipalities in the framework of ensuring the concept of integration of foreigners and regions to ensure adaptation integration courses. Fourthly, in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, the specific indicator Expenditure on ensuring the performance of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational units of the State is reduced by CZK 100 million in the 553, other non-investment transfers abroad, and - as last, fifthly - in Chapter 314 the Ministry of the Interior has reduced by CZK 35 million in the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational units of the State by non-investment transfers to non-profit and similar organisations. I will now justify this proposal: because, in the budget for 2023, CZK 100 million have been collected on the salaries of police officers, this amendment is giving back the 100 million to the cops on salaries and additional 100 million are added to them, and this is because the police force itself is now carrying out a much larger penzion of work tasks, including securing our eastern border with Slovakia, and it is necessary to stabilise the police force, not to take money from them, because police officers have increased spending in their families. We would put them in difficult situations, because police officers do not have paid overtime and, on the one hand, the demands of the service that are currently due to the huge migration crisis from the eastern border of the Czech Republic with the Slovak Republic, so we would actually investigate here to see that police officers would leave us with active duty, and we would only deepen the problem. Here I am following one more thing, which has now been published in the media regarding the National Economic Council of the Government, which has, as one of its excellent ideas - I say this somewhat ironically - a reduction in the police force by 3,000 members. I think that in order to maintain current security in the Czech Republic it is a step in a very bad direction, and I think that this could get us very, very out of hand in the future, because such decimation of all the security forces of the state, we certainly remember that here from when Mr. Miroslav Kalousek was Minister of Finance, so I would very much like to avoid that. As mentioned in those chapters, all the things I have justified here are clear that as far as the item 100 million is being drawn up, i.e. from the funds used to secure the Ministry of the Interior's programme to assist refugees in regions of origin and to prevent large migration movements, it is in the form of financial donations abroad, so I think we have already tried out here and that unfortunately it does not work because the huge migration wave that has risen from Turkey, the money has been sent there in some way as a kind of liquid so that the refugees are being deposited there and not going any further. As we have learned, this is not working, and we really need the money here in the Czech Republic, so that this problem can be addressed at least at the eastern border with our neighbour, Slovakia, where, by the way, there are no readmission agreements. So I guess all of this and I beg you to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u61	Yes, the next will be Mr Haas, Mr Černý will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u62	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, allow me to introduce and briefly justify the joint coalition amendment made by Members Karel Haas, Jakub Janda, David Šimek, Jan Lacina, Pavel Klíma and Jakub Michálek, under House document No 1594. The presentation of the amendment is as follows. The amendment concerns the budget chapter 362, where, in Annex No.4 to the draft State Budget Act, Chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency, Chapter 362 of the Specific Indicators of Expenditure in the Specific Indicators of Subsidy in the Field of Sport, in which the development and promotion of sport, the amount is reduced by CZK 65,067 353 and in the Specific Indicators of Subsidy in the Field of Sport, in which the Sports Representation, is increased by CZK 65,067 353. Furthermore, in this part of the chapter Cross-cutting Indicators in the cross-cutting indicator Expenditure maintained in the information system of programming funding in total is reduced by CZK 710,067,335. [[17.20 hours]] The justification for this amendment is as follows: we submitters are very well aware of the underfinancing, the long-term subfinancing of the infrastructure of Czech sport. We perceive this, we are very well aware of it, but in the crisis year 2023, which undoubtedly awaits the whole Czech society and Czech sport, we believe that it is primarily necessary within the National Sports Agency to have allocated funds for basic non-investment grant challenges, which are aimed at promoting day-to-day sports, especially children and youth. This means that we must provide the allocation mainly in the three non-investment grant titles My Club 2023, these are the financial amounts arising without any mediation from the National Sports Agency directly into sports clubs, second into the subsidy title Unions 2023 or Support of Association Organisations, this is the support of sports associations, but no, I will say, primarily sports associations and their organizations, but through sports associations talented young people are financed, that is, children training from a certain level, through sports associations finance sports representation of the Czech Republic and thirdly, and that is perhaps the most important in this energy-intensive period, into the subsidy title Operation and maintenance. I will also stress the amounts that, thanks to the transfer from the investment part of budget chapter 362, which, even after the possible adoption of our amendment, will remain in the amount - I round - CZK 1.1 billion, i.e. in sufficient amount compared to the previous years, the reduction and transfer from the investment subsidy titles to non-investment should be shown roughly as follows - I will now briefly round to the full round amounts: the subsidy programme My club 2023 should be increased by CZK 100 million from 1.45 billion to 1.55 billion compared to the chapter workbook, as proposed by the National Sports Agency, from 1.45 billion to 1.55 billion; the grant title of the Union or the support of the Unions should be increased in comparison with the chapter workbook, as proposed by the National Sports Agency, from approximately CZK 2.48 billion to CZK 2.7 billion; and perhaps the most important - Operation and maintenance in 2023, this non-investment grant title, which is intended primarily to support sports organisations in energy-intensive times, compared to the chapter notebook where the National Sports Agency was surprisingly designed in the amount of CZK 0, should be increased to CZK 450 million. Thank you here at the end of the statement of reasons for the representatives and colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, with whom the amendment has been discussed in detail and fine-tuned, I would like to say thank you here. Finally, I just want to ask for the support of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u63	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, the President will speak Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister - one and the other. I thank my colleague Černý for allowing me to perform... [[Responses from the left side of the government bench.]] Sorry, I'm sorry to the Minister and the third minister present, I was only looking to the right and not to the left. [[Langshads]] So I greet all three ministers and the kind lady of the Minister and all the fellow Members present in the hall. I thank my colleague Černý for allowing me to speak here with priority rights. But I'll be very brief. I am going to present a coalition amendment, like my colleague Karel Haas, who concerns the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I'm gonna read it here, and then I'm gonna give it a brief explanation. This is an amendment by members of Marek Výborný, Renata Zajíčková, Jan Berki, Pavel Klíma and Ivan Bartoš to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023, in the following three points: firstly, in Annex 4, Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the indicator Expenditure increases by CZK 1,100 million and the specific indicator The expenditure of regional education and directly managed organisations increases by CZK 1,100 million. The second point in Annex No.4 in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration is reduced by CZK 1,100 million in total and the specific indicator The Government Budget Reserve is reduced by CZK 1,100 million. Thirdly, the corresponding binding indicators and parts of the draft law, including the annexes, are being modified at the same time. This amendment is read in the system under the number of House document 1610. To this reason: I would like to very much appreciate the whole government, not only the two ministers of finance and education, but the whole government for the fact that what we have factored in the government's programming statement means that education as a whole is crucial and is a priority of our government, so that we are also actually fulfilling it, which is obvious that we are trying to keep pace with the not-so-perfect situation of public budgets, state budget, rising inflation, but if we promised to keep the salaries of pedagogical workers, teachers at some level, and that is also in some time frame, we are fulfilling it as a government. I want to thank you for that. At the same time, this amendment is also justified. Some things are solved gradually. At this point, the Minister of Education presents or will submit to the Government - it is in the inter-rezero - an amendment to the Education Act, where, among other things, the parameterization of teaching assistants is solved. It is very important that we rationalise the system in a way that I simplify. We will save more for the detailed debate on the school committee and here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies when the law from the government arrives here. However, at this point, we need to address the positions of teaching assistants, because schools are actually compulsory on the basis of the support measures recommended by school advisory facilities, and also implement these support measures in schools. If I make it a lot easier, it means that teachers' assistants must work actively in schools. In the period of povidová and in the time that we are experiencing in the context of the dramatic events of Russian aggression in Ukraine and so on, of course, the number of support measures in children where various problems occur, including mental problems, the number of support measures is obviously increasing. This carries with it higher demands on the number of teaching assistants. In particular, according to the state of the recommended, provided and reported support measures at 1. 10. 2022 increase is 2,216 employees. In order to cover this fact in schools for schools and for directors of mandatorial expenditure, it is necessary to increase the chapter of regional education by CZK 1,100 million. Even on the basis of the negotiations within the coalition of the two Ministers, we have reached just this figure and this amendment, and therefore here, for all the five Members that I mentioned here at the beginning, I am presenting this amendment and I am justifying it. Thank you for your support at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u65	Thank you. Mr Černý, who has been duly applied for, will now appear, Mr Hendrych will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to apply to my two amendments listed in the system under 1638 and 1639. In short, I will introduce you to them because they are very important to ensure the food self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. In both amendments, I propose to transfer funds from the budget chapter 306 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the expenditure indicator Contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad, where the allocated amount is more than CZK 1 billion for almost 500 international organisations, to Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture. According to the Supreme Audit Office, the meaning of many of these contracts is highly dubious and in many cases does not bring anything to the Czech Republic. But I would like to repeat this after my colleague, who already spoke about the uncertainties in this budget chapter in the implementation of these treaties an hour ago. During the time of the serious economic and social crisis, it is necessary to focus firmly on those budget items which do not benefit the Czech Republic and its citizens. And now, briefly, on individual proposals. The first amendment envisages the transfer of CZK 100 million to support the bee sector, as specified in the explanatory memorandum. The increase in funding should aim to support both the new beginning beekeepers and the support of existing beekeepers, the expansion of hives and the effective fight against their diseases. Without bees, pollination is very complicated, as one unnamed market has recently shown to experts and lay public - without the interaction of bees, most of the shelves with green food are empty. That is what the Minister of Agriculture has personally seen. [[17.30 hours]] The second amendment envisages the transfer of CZK 200 million to support pig farmers and the precise specification of the proposal is also part of the explanatory memorandum. The breeding of pigs is currently going through a very difficult time. In the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy, the finances have been considerably reduced to the businesses dedicated to it. Even with regard to the ever-increasing cost of compound feed, energy and labour, more than half of pig-producing enterprises are considering quitting or reducing it significantly. Unfortunately, some of them are finished. At the same time, the results of various investigations in the quality of our Czech raw materials in this sector are very above average compared to foreign competition. The SPD movement supports the production of quality Czech food, which is why I propose this amendment to increase the support of pig farmers in order to avoid even greater dependence of the Czech Republic on imports of pigmeat from abroad. Thank you all for supporting my amendments, and I hope that your decision will win the mind over party decision making not to support our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u67	Yes, that was Mr Černý, and now Mr Hendrych will speak in order and Mr Kolovratník will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u68	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President, Madam Secretary, allow me to apply to my amendment, which is registered under number 1580. It is an amendment that I tabled with Members Ivo Vondrák and Lubomír Brož. Now to the formalities and then to their justification. Firstly, in Chapter 334, the Ministry of Culture, expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure and specific indicator Expenditure - support for culture of national minorities, support for cultural activities of national minorities and information in the languages of national minorities by an amount of CZK 1 million. Secondly, in Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator Expenditure - a government budgetary reserve of CZK 1 million - is reduced. Thirdly, the corresponding parts of the bill, including the annexes, are adapted. And now a brief statement of reasons. Law No 273/2001 Coll., on the rights of members of national minorities, grants these minorities - which are recognised officially in the Czech Republic, which is fourteen - rights. I would like to quote Section 12 of the said law, which states that "the state creates conditions for the preservation and development of culture, traditions and languages of members of national minorities who traditionally and long-term live in the Czech Republic, particularly supports programmes aimed at theatres, museums, galleries, libraries, documentation activities and other activities of members of national minorities. To this end, it grants grants from the state budget. The conditions and method of granting subsidies shall be laid down by the Government by regulation.' It works, but unfortunately the amount that is currently proposed in the state budget for 2023, is still the same as six years ago, and is exactly CZK 31 million. The state recognized national minorities - I would like to clarify this a little bit, the national minority are people who are citizens of the Czech Republic but who claim to be other than Czech nationality, so it is not a foreigner - they are basically starting to have problems with the fact that the law is essentially being implemented, because we all know that there is ubiquitous inflation here, and over the six years back it has made everything more expensive, and they are starting to have problems with being able to essentially print periodicals mainly for informing national minorities, specifically in the Czech Republic in their language, so they have increased the cost of publishers to print and generally to wages. I've been thinking about it, I've been trying to take account of the state budget situation in general, when I certainly didn't want to propose some enormously high amount, but I see it as a signal. I designed 1 million crowns for the current 31 million. I take it as a signal to those recognized by the national minorities, that we are interested in them and that we take into account the increased costs they have for their activities. It's not much. I think that this is really symbolic, and for this reason I think that the government coalition could have a positive side to this and support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u69	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník will now appear. I see that he is not present in the hall, so I will ask Mr Havránek - he is also not in the hall, so Mr Mašek, Mrs Lesenská will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u70	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to apply to two amendments, namely 1612 and 1613. In both cases, it is Chapter 314, Ministry of the Interior. In the first case, the amendment aims to increase the funds to the Plata item to civilian staff outside the service of the Fire Rescue Corps by 12,5 million and to pay police officers outside the service by CZK 125 million. We have reached this proposal in studying this chapter and we have found that the chapter is undervalued. As part of the second proposal 1613 it is an increase of CZK 175 million for the Operational Expenditure of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and CZK 500 million for the Operational Expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic. There is the same reason, and it is absolutely admirable that the proposed amount for the operating expenses of these congregations is significantly lower than in 2022, when we all know that there is 16% of inflation, an increase in energy and so on. Both proposals - 1612 and 1613 - are in the system and are there, including reasons, so I refer to them. And I would just like to say that it is no more and no less about the security of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u71	Thank you. It is now signed up for the debate, Mrs Lesenská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u72	Good evening, Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I hereby sign up for my amendment to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023. My amendment is registered under number 1559 in the system. I propose to amend the draft law as follows: firstly, in Chapter 336, the Ministry of Justice, the expenditure of the specific indicator The prison part increases by CZK 461 298 817, in Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, the expenditure of the specific indicator The contribution to the budget of the European Union by CZK 461 298 817. I believe that the expenditure on the activities of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic is low in the budget, and therefore there is a risk of underfinancing this Security Corps, which ensures the execution of the detention and execution of prison sentences, as well as the protection of order and security in the conduct of the judiciary and the administration of the courts, in the activities of the State Prosecutors and the Ministry of Justice. Although there was an increase in the budget compared to 2022, this increase hardly covers real inflation. The government's budget for 2022 in sections Salary expenditure, Other payments for the work done, Insurance and FKSP and Other material expenditure was reduced by CZK 461 298 817 compared to the budget of 2021. That is why I am proposing to increase expenditure by this amount so that funding can reach at least the same level as it should have been in the previous budget, because the current increase is insufficient. In the context of other business expenses, the Prison Service of the Czech Republic must ensure the purchase of food for the eating of prisoners, the continuous and continuous operation of prisons, the purchase of water, fuels, energy and other expenditure associated with the continuous care of prisoners. In the context of rising inflation and increasing energy prices, it is already clear that the budget, in my view, will not be sufficient. It should be noted that these are mandatory expenditures, and these costs cannot be saved. [[17.40 hours]] At the same time, the Chapter of the Delegation to the European Union is reduced, as the primary ambition of the State should first be to ensure the functioning of the State and its services as such and subsequently contribute to the budget of transnational organisations. The proposed reduction is acceptable as it should not be reflected in the Union expenditure to Czech citizens. Thank you for your support for this proposal and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u73	Thank you. Now, a colleague of Mr. kolovratník should appear. He's already present, so please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u74	Thank you for the floor, and good evening. I'm a little sorry, it came out to me in time so strangely in the 13.28, when the debate started here for transport, and it was really not for about two minutes, but a minute and a half by half two, when the poll block started, which is why I could no longer join the debate between Minister Stanjura and my colleague. My two amendments are following this. I will take it from behind in quotation marks, first the second, simpler one, which concerns discounts on public transport, discounts for seniors and students in public environmental rail transport. In my amendment, which I am referring to in detail in this debate, this House document has number 1609, it is an amendment where I propose that in chapter 327, the Ministry of Transport, expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure, specific indicator Other expenditure related to the state's transport policy be increased by CZK 1 billion. I propose this increase reciprocally against the reduction of the amount in Chapter 398, the Government's budgetary reserve. What makes me say that? Surely you know, colleagues, that the public fare discount debates are quite wide and well known in the public media space. You, as a coalition, as a government, have also declared in your government's programming statement that you will revise them, that you will look at them, but unfortunately you have taken that step in the opposite direction than the idea or vision of this matter is our, opposition. Here I will remind you that the discounts for seniors and students were and worked during the reign of the ANO movement and social democracy, the previous one, of 75 percent. You guys cut them down to 50 percent this year. In other words, you have increased the public transport price by the most necessary, primarily the elderly, actually twice, by half. It is your political decision, which we must respect and respect as opposition, that card will be issued by the voters for them, but I again - I have already tried to push through this year's draft budget, after the budget make-up in March 2022 - and I am trying again. We are simply convinced that you should go back to the original level, which is precisely in the opposite direction than it suggests in the current proposals on how to consolidate public budgets, the National Economic Council. What's the reason? In fact, the reasons are still the same, which are going on and on in these days and weeks - problems with energy prices, what appears to people on their accounts or receipts and bills. Only in these days information that comes from the public in connection with increasing energy advances since this winter, rents, food prices, inflation and so on are all things that at this time may not yet have such a major impact, but believe that they will have an impact on the elderly, on the most threatened ones, on the following months and just from next year. That's why we want to try to convince you that this discount reduction here, even if it might seem like some kind of compromise, that it just isn't reasonable. I will also recall other basic arguments that public transport, which is ecological, cheap, efficient, also contributes to the mobility of citizens, to the mobility of our nation, whether seniors or students, allows them to travel not only for possible unnecessary trips or recreation, but to travel for study, to travel often for work, for economic activity, that is, even the money that the government would put into discounts on public fare, on public transport, we assume that, in its own way or at least in part, they should return to public budgets precisely on higher economic activity, our country's activities, on higher GDP. So briefly, one of my amendments proposes to increase the Ministry of Transport's budget for public transport discounts by 1 billion and has the number of the House document 1609. That's who I'm applying to. And now the second issue that I consider even more fundamental, and that is the topic of subsidies, total subsidies or total resources of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. If you have followed the debate here in more detail between former Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček and current Martin Kupka and also Minister Stanjura, the whole debate was about whether it was an accounting trick or not an accounting trick, whether the 30.7 billion that the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure is supposed to borrow for the first time this year is called debt financing, so whether it is just a hideout and an optical reduction in state debt or not. In this argument, I will allow myself to rely not only on the position and arguments of us opposition parties, but also on the position of the National Budget Board, which gave a clear comment on October 6. She said that the presented deficit of the state budget of 295 billion does not take account of the extent of the imbalance, and that the extent of the imbalance is underlined, it is now increasing in the balance sheet of the state special-purpose funds, the dominant State Fund of transport infrastructure, where it is therefore increased by the 30.7 billion in the form of a loan. The National Budget Board considers this approach to the optical reduction of the deficit inappropriate, I repeat, inappropriate. And I'm going to repeat the arguments that fell here. Yes, it is possible for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure to borrow the 30.7 billion from the EIB, but let's see the one in the devil's quotes that is hidden in detail. Even when Minister Kupka presented the loan here, the negotiations with the European Investment Bank - and now I will underline, I am not criticizing the very fact of relations and negotiations with the EIB, it is the right path for projects, for concrete project financing, but not for such a large investment framework - so the Minister and also the representatives of the EIB were asked by direct questions from journalists, what will be the parameters of the loan, how high the interest will be, how high the instalments will be, how they will be distributed over time. There was a direct question at the press conference about whether it would be at about 5% interest, and the journalist was depending on the secrecy of such information. And if you were watching the debate that went on here with Zbyněk Stanjura, he said a very key sentence that I can confirm - it is logical that if the EIB loan is not more advantageous, we will not use it, we will use funding at the expense of the state debt. That is clear, we will not criticize this as opposition, but then I ask - I am writing a question to the Minister, it is a pity that he is not here at the moment, I will ask at third reading, or I will also go to the Committee on Budgets - if we see the revenue of the budget of the SFDI under discussion here, it is material from the Economic Committee, so if the State Fund, on the side of its income, has a figure of 30 675 000 000, which is called debt financing, and against this goes to the state budget of 62 278 000 000 as a subsidy to the state budget to cover the deficit, then I ask, if the EIB loan does not fall, what does the Ministry of Finance or what does the Ministry of Finance do? Will it increase the state budget subsidy? You will come here to the House - and now I can point to that, and I am glad that it is up to the chairman of the budget committee - will the government come with an amendment to the state budget for 2023, if the EIB does not fall? From my knowledge - and I see here the reaction of President Schillerová - but from my, albeit little knowledge of a member of the economic committee, I know that you must, that it is simply not possible. So that's what I want here to sound like a microphone. [[17.50 hours]] The EIB may be more advantageous, then let us be happy, but we believe that it will not, and if it is not, I ask and please ask for an answer - and I will return to it at third reading - if you come up with a change and amendment to the state budget. We believe that you will come up with it, that you will have to come up with it, and then the previous premises and sentences apply not only to us, but also to the National Budget Board, that it is simply an unbalanced balance sheet and that you would much rather admit the state budget deficit and say it straight away, just as Karel Havlíček proposes in another supplement - those amendments can follow up - with an amendment where he says that the entire amount should be allocated directly to the state fund. So I repeat, the fund's spending - let me cut it short, 150.9 billion - just doesn't match the revenue of the fund, which is precisely the expenditure of the state budget. Ad 1. And ad 2, there was no answer to one of our transporters: if the EIB's loan goes well, if it comes to an end, then who, gentlemen, will be burdened with the repayment? I don't know if it's gonna be 5 billion a year, 10 or 15, if it's gonna be in a year, two or three, but somebody's gonna have to pay the EIB back. I ask - and again will I ask for a clear answer to the microphone: will it be a mandatorial expense, a mandatorial cargo directly from the Ministry of Finance, and will it be hidden under some heading of the State Debt Service? Or will it be, for God's sake, the mandatorial expense of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, which will appear in future years somewhere in such a pie chart and every year every Minister of Transport, whatever he is, will he have to cross out the 5, 10 or 15 billion right from the start, because it will be a payment to the European Investment Bank, even with the guarantee of the state, the Czech Republic? These are two fundamental questions that have not yet been answered by the government coalition, and we will want to return to them. So much for my comment on the second amendment. Now quickly to its contents. I went - after coordination with Kar Havlíček I decided to go another, let's say very, very moderate or - and I don't want to say this, more moderate, but simply more compromise - way. In the end, I've taken such an internal consideration that the EIB might end up there. But you're working there with one more thing that we haven't named, and that's debt financing, issuing bonds from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure. First of all, dear coalition colleagues, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure does not currently have a modified law to issue such bonds with the guarantee of the state. Once again, it's like the red thread of what Alena Schillerová, Richard Brabec, was talking about. You plan, you draw income that you don't even have a changed law, you don't have legislation on it. First of all. Secondly, even a total layman knows that: if the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure issues its own bonds and you talk about some 5, 6, maybe 10 billion, it will not be particularly interesting for investors. I am deeply convinced of that. In other words, out of the $30.7 billion estimate, by a gross estimate of 5.7 billion using SFDI bonds, you, the government coalition, are not going to get it. Therefore, in my second amendment to which I am applying - this is House document 1608 - I propose at least compromise and let us say sensible, small solutions, so that the item that is called Other subsidies for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure and which, on the other hand, at SFDI's reception, is reflected in the State Budget subsidy for the deficit and is 62,278 billion, so that this amount is increased precisely by 5,7 billion, so that the Minister of Transport can simply be more sure and have these resources prepared. Again, I propose this reciprocally against a reduction in the government's budgetary reserve. I mean, and I'm going to convince you to do this and fight for this, whether you accept the proposal, gentlemen and ladies, because, as I said, even if EIB loans go well with identifying the projects needed, and so on and so on, so just 5 to 6 billion SFDI bonds simply won't work, you won't get them, so you won't have to - and I don't know if it's going to be in March, April, May or June - walking with a request for a state budget amendment, but you're drawing it up a little bit more precisely in this amount. Please consider this amendment and try to mentally lean towards it and accept it. It is House document 1608. I hereby declare myself to him and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u75	The last one entered in the detailed debate is Mr Havránek. Before the microphone comes, I will make an apology: Minister Válek apologizes from 16 o'clock for work reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, a lovely evening. I will not keep you long, I would just like to read here and introduce you to two of my amendments. Both relate to history and its reminiscence. The first amendment, which can be found in the system under number 1632, concerns an increase in the total expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Culture in a specific indicator The contribution to the operation of the contribution organisations, namely by CZK 10 million. At the same time, there is a reduction in the expenditure of Chapter 398, the General Treasury, in a specific indicator of the Government Budget Reserve, also by a sum of CZK 10 million. What exactly will these funds come to? It is proposed to increase the budget of the indicator Contribution to the operation of the contribution organizations, mostly the means of salaries in the framework of ensuring the next stage of digitization of the photo archive of ČTK. At the same time, all relevant binding indicators and parts of the draft law, including annexes, are being modified. The digitization of the CTK photo archive was launched in 2019, it is a long-term project and one of the priorities. It is this increase in finance that will help further digitization. I present the second amendment together with my colleagues Karel Haas, Karel Krejza, Vojtěch Munzar and Stanislav Blaha. This amendment can be found under number 1633, also concerns the chapter of the Ministry of Culture, where there is an increase in funds in a specific indicator The contribution to the operation of the contribution organisations by an amount of CZK 2.5 million. Furthermore, chapters Development and restoration of the material technical base of state cultural facilities by the amount of CZK 1.5 million and Programs for the Rescue and Restoration of Cultural Monuments by a million crowns. On the other hand, all these changes are due to the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury in a specific indicator of the Government Budget Reserve by a total amount of CZK 5 million. What's going on? It is basically support for three projects. The first is the reconstruction of the museum and the monument of Ležáky. There is now a reconstruction for me of one of the heart places and comments about the history of the Holocaust in the Czech Republic. It is the help of 1.5 million to edit and actually modernize the museum, which I'm sure you all know, that is certainly the way in the right direction. The second change concerns the Museum of Totalitarianism in Uherské Hradiště, where there is an increase in funds for its not reconstruction, because I believe it was created in 2016, but it was the extension of its operation, in total value of CZK 2.5 million. And the third part concerns increasing the Regeneration program for the restoration of historical graffiti of Terezín Fortress. It really is a reconstruction of those engravings that are the remains of the Holocaust, and I believe it is absolutely right to remember this. Colleagues, I believe you will be happy to support this amendment, as we have supported the comments of the eighty years of the Heydrichiad this year, for example in the last parliamentary term. I thank the Ministry of Culture, as well as the Ministry of Defence, for how it happened this year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-045-02-015-003.u77	Thank you. I'm going to ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate from the scene because it was the last speaker registered? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. The minister had no interest in the final word, as he informed me before he had to leave. So I end the second reading of this proposal and I end the discussion of item 3. Since this is the final point of our meeting today, I am interrupting the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, namely until Friday, November 18, 2022 by 9 pm. Until then, I wish you all the best. Have a good day.
