ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 300/2013 Coll., on the Military Police and on the Amendment of Certain Acts (the Military Police Act), as amended /German Press 309/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I therefore point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to this draft law at first reading. On behalf of the government, the motion submitted will be made by Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová, and I will ask her to take the floor. And colleagues who do not want to attend to this press, I will ask them to leave the O.R. or to keep their voices down if possible. Let me ask you one more time, the rumpus are only in the right side of the hall this time, I'll ask you to leave the hall, who needs to discuss something other than the topic of our point number 25. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Members, fellow Members, fellow Members, I submit to you for approval a draft law amending Act No. 300/2013 Coll., on Military Police and on the amendment of some laws. It's an amendment to the Military Police Act, as amended. The proposed bill aims to improve the existing conditions for the exercise of police protection, in particular to extend the powers of the Military Police to police protection of troops of the armed forces of other States and their materials during transit or stay in the territory of the Czech Republic, to provide for the possibility of a separate operation of the Military Police in carrying out tasks in the territory of other States in fulfilling international contractual obligations, to extend the personal competence of the Military Police following the police protection of units of the armed forces of other States during transit or stay in the territory of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, it is to define the concept of a protected object and, last but not least, it is to clarify following the extension of the military police's competence to define some of its tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the bill amendment will not require increased financial demands on the state budget, some of the incentives for this law are still here from the last parliamentary term, when the previous colleagues, the former minister, made these demands, so we are actually implementing something on which there was agreement, only it was not possible to negotiate. Let me thank you, then, for agreeing on the Gremium and agreeing that you will therefore allow for the speedy approval of this proposal. [[18.50 hours]] In fact, this is also due to the deterioration of the security situation in Europe, in the world. Through our territory there is an increased movement of convoys of armed forces of other states, various exercises that go for example to Slovakia or Poland and so on, and the Military Police are therefore ready to carry out this task. Of course, in order to have permission, which only the Police of the Czech Republic has at this time, it is necessary to amend the law as quickly as possible. Therefore, I suggest that in accordance with the article, respectively § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. the honourable Chamber of Deputies agreed with the proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u3	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading to take the floor, and this is Mr Lubomír Wenzl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, Minister, colleagues, as rapporteur for this amendment to Act No. I will no longer repeat what the Minister said in his introductory words, but I would like to point out some things that have not yet been mentioned or have not been mentioned in this speech. The draft amendment aims to extend the military police's powers to the armed forces of the states, especially the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance, in protecting and accompanying the colonies of their technology, during transit or stay in the territory of the Czech Republic, and at the same time specifies the scope and performance of the service of members of the Military Police abroad. The proposed regulation in this area is a response to the commitments of the Czech Republic adopted under the Agreement between the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Statute of their Armed Forces, with which Parliament of the Czech Republic gave its consent and which was announced by the Communication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs No. 1/2000 Collections of international treaties in the field of providing protection to the armed forces of another state in the territory of the Czech Republic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 11 This Agreement between the Contracting Parties on the Statute for their Armed Forces provides that each Contracting Party shall endeavour to adopt such legislative provisions as it deems necessary to ensure adequate security and protection of equipment, equipment, assets, records and official information of other Contracting Parties...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u5	I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the O.R., but I think it's already happened. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u6	... other Contracting Parties in its territory and to punish persons who violate the laws adopted for this purpose. Since the above-mentioned agreement entered into force for the Czech Republic, namely 30 November 2000, a relatively long period has elapsed which has enabled, among other things, to evaluate the effectiveness of the legislative measures adopted in practice and to detect their weaknesses or to identify the lack of clear legislation for carrying out the intended tasks. Practical experience has clearly shown that, in a number of cases, it would be necessary to rely only on an adequate interpretation of the existing legislation in order to ensure the safety and protection of equipment, equipment, assets of the armed forces of another State, or even to waive organisational measures or activities which would be most appropriate to apply in that situation. Therefore, when preparing an amendment to the bill, it was assessed what are the general legal conditions for the protection of the stay of the armed forces of another state in the Czech Republic. On this issue, it must be noted that the military police are not allowed to participate in the implementation of the aforementioned commitment of the Czech Republic, however logical it would be and would correspond to similar practice of the States which are parties to the quoted agreement. Pursuant to Section 1 of the Act now in force on the Military Police, the Military Police carry out tasks to the extent defined by this Act and perform the tasks of police protection of the Ministry of Defence, armed forces, military buildings, military equipment and other property of the State with which the Ministry of Defence is competent to manage. It is clear from this basic provision that the legislator now sees the military police's competence as a performance aimed at protecting the property of the Czech Republic, which is intended to carry out the tasks of the Ministry of Defence of the Armed Forces, and also to carry out police protection of the armed forces. In this context, it should also be noted that if the legislature in Law No 300/2013 Sb. uses the term armed forces, means armed forces of the Czech Republic within the meaning of Act No. 219/1999 Coll., on Armed Forces of the Czech Republic, as amended, which is based on the very context of the law and this fact is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum given by the Ministry. Given that, as the Minister mentioned in her speech, this is not a complex regulation, but rather this, if adopted, will help to exercise and the military police as a whole, there is consent to approve this amendment at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u7	Thank you, and I am now opening a general debate. First of all, I will apologize to Mr Jaroslav Dvořák from 19:00 for business reasons, Mr Zdeněk Kettner from 19:00 to 12:00, for work reasons, Mr Radek Koten from 19:00 for business reasons and for government members Minister Martin Kupka from 18:30 for work reasons. And if no one reports to the general debate... This is the rapporteur. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to briefly comment on this proposal for an amendment to the Military Police Act from the perspective of a man who has spent ten years as a member of the armed forces, and for ten years, with the Military Police. So, as mentioned by the Minister or in my report as rapporteur, more or less the response at the moment is to a situation that did not arise after this year's 24 February, this issue has not yet been addressed more or less. The current regulation really defines, well defines the tasks of the Military Police in carrying out tasks in the territory of the Czech Republic, but if this amendment is adopted, the fact that for every exercise, for every transfer of members of the armed forces of other states, bilateral agreements have been concluded or contracts have been concluded on this particular matter. At this point, it will be clearly codified what authority and authority the Military Police have, as a matter of fact, a member of the Military Police. The Military Police also have long-term experience of military police officers abroad. In the event of approval of the amendment, the shortcomings in the current legislation will be eliminated, i.e. the possibility of the independent operation of the Military Police abroad in the territory of other states, for example when carrying out the police training mission of national military-police units, as was the case in Iraq between 2003 and 2006, or the possibility of the operation of the Military Police unit in co-operation with units of allies without the participation of the armed forces of the Czech Republic, or also in the place of the specific tasks of individual members of the Military Police, who are included, for example, in the structures of alliance elements of command and control. The basic objective of the draft amendment is to make the activities of the Military Police more effective, to ensure effective and effective conditions for the performance of the tasks entrusted to them and, in the case of approval of this amendment, the Military Police will be able to perform tasks comprehensively, professionally and at a comparable level with the security forces entrusted with similar tasks. Thank you for your attention, and especially for your support for the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-001-025.u9	Thank you, and I look around the hall once again to see if there is an interest in speaking in the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. For the record, I'm going to ask if the secretary is interested in the final word at this stage? There's no interest. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. And now we will decide, I will engage already, according to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 309 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' So it looks like the numbers are dropping, and I am opening the vote on this resolution. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 59 vote, 159 Members voted in favour of 143, against 0. So this proposal has been approved. [[19.00 hours]] And so I am now opening a detailed debate in which I do not see anyone logged in, so I am ending this detailed debate. Will I ask again for order, Madam Secretary, is there interest in final words? It's not. Nor is the rapporteur interested? And we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Once again, I call on my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 300/2013 Coll., on the Military Police and on the amendment of certain laws, the Military Police Act, as amended, according to House Press 309." Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this resolution? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 60 vote, 162 votes were cast, for 154, against 0. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved. The negotiations are adjourned. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur, and this concludes the whole point. And we proceed to the next point, opening point number
