ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and Act No. 382/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Sources and on Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Press 225/ - Shorted Act The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, because the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela is duly excused. I beg you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Once again, I would like to apologise to my government colleague, the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is in isolation, so he cannot personally participate in today's plenary session in the Chamber of Deputies. But according to the information available to me, yesterday, at least online, he attended the meeting of the Economic Committee, which was ordered by the President to discuss this bill. I thank all those who have made it possible for us to discuss this bill in a state of legislative emergency. The reasons are obvious, I will mention them briefly, but the main reason why we approach this is to increase the energy security of the Czech Republic. After Putin and his troops invaded Ukraine, a very complicated situation arose with regard to the supply of gas from Russia to the Member States of the European Union. Unfortunately, we are among those who are almost 100 percent dependent on Russian gas supplies. At the same time, in the Czech Republic, we have gas storage containers covering about 40 percent of annual consumption. If you are interested in a more accurate number, the total capacity is about 3.4 billion cubic meters of gas. As of 1 April, the state is making efforts to ensure that gas storage tanks are filled faster than in previous years, precisely in view of the dangerous energy situation in Europe. To date, we've got about 54 percent of our stacks filled, there's 1.86 billion cc's. It's the latest information we have at our disposal. Let me just remind you that last year's annual gas consumption was about 9.4 billion cc's, of which 2.5 billion cc's were consumed by our households. It means that the moment the magazines are full, there will be no problem with the supply of our households. It is no coincidence that many gas storage capacity in the European Union has been leased by Russian company Gazprom, which has systematically reduced the actual filling of gas storage tanks since the summer of 2020, in all of Western Europe, where the Czech Republic certainly belongs. At the moment when the emergency is in force, the Minister of Industry and Trade has exercised his legal authority and, by his extraordinary measures, ordered the filling of these gas containers. In order to continue this, and to avoid the danger that Russian Gazprom will compete with them while not fulfilling them, this means that the gas reservoirs will not be useful, the government comes with the principle of using it or lose it - I apologize for the English expression. If I translate it freely: either you use it, it means fulfill it, or you lose the capacity. [[11.10 hours]] At the moment when we succeed in a state of legislative emergency, this proposal is adopted in both chambers of Parliament and will be signed by the President, there will be no need to use emergency conditions to fill gas storage tanks. This is the first important part of this bill. The second important part concerns the last instance's supplier regime. Unfortunately, last year around a million households gained personal experience with this regime. We must say that this regime has worked and that in the end no one has remained without the supply of gas or electricity. However, we come up with parametric changes that are in favour of consumers. First of all, the law is the limit of six months when the customer in the last instance's supplier mode is reduced to three months. If you recall the shock of it when it happened, so were too high advances, because those advances did not count to twelve months as usual for a standard contract, for a standard contract, but only six months when the maximum may be the last instance supplier regime, and therefore they were mathematically at least twice as high as needed. At the same time, there is an improvement that is in favour of those who pay properly. If they fall into the last instance supplier's mode and pay properly, they do not have to ask for anything, they do not have to go anywhere and after three months they become the standard customer of the last instance supplier who provides them with the service or delivery in this mode. I stress that the condition is that it is valid. There he gets by law, if we approve him, a standard contract for an indefinite period of time, like any other customer of the supplier who chose the supply, whether gas or electricity, for an indefinite period of time. These are the two basic things that this amendment brings. I can confirm Mr Kubíček's words, yes, at this point work is under way on the next amendment to the Energy Act, but we needed to take these two measures extremely quickly. That is why we have chosen - and I am pleased that the Chamber of Deputies has complied with this proposal - an exceptional rule of law in a legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Economic Committee, to which the Government's draft law was directed, discussed it by the President's decision and adopted a resolution which was recommended to you as House Press 225/1. I would now like the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Ivan Adamec, to take the floor, also to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear ministers, colleagues, the Minister of Finance has explained here the basic principle of the content of the law, which we have at this time submitted for approval. I would try to supplement it in the sense of what actually took place on the Economic Committee yesterday. I would also like to confirm Mr Kubíček's words that, unlike others who may have a gracious summer, we are going to have a hot summer, an economic committee, because we will have to deal with the new adjustment of energy legislation. That's the reality that awaits us, and that's what we're gonna have to count on. As far as the discussion is concerned, the debate lasted an hour and a quarter on this bill, and we decided to support the amendment tabled by a group of Members from the Economic Committee with me in charge of the Energy Regulatory Office. We propose to change the powers and position of the Energy Regulatory Authority's Board there, and those reasons are quite simple. If you followed the Bohemia Energy crash situation, you found out - and the members of the economic committee had already found out - that by making the board a collective body with collective responsibility, it became collective irresponsibility. This needs to be seen in this way. We said that the system was set up wrong, that it needed to be changed, that someone would have to be responsible for deciding the Energy Authority so that it would comply with the law. There will be - it is set there - the possibility of appeal of individual members and the chairman of the board also becomes a sort of director of the office, in our case the regulatory authority, and more or less the responsibility is to specific persons. I think it's right, I remember the sway when it happened. That's when President Vitásková ended, so that's when we turned the system into a collective body. It turned out that in a time of crisis, this collective body simply does not work, does not fulfil its powers, nor did they have any interest in saying that it does not have the competence to adjust those competences here in the Chamber of Deputies. The amendment was more or less approved by all the members of the economic committee present, and I must say that the material is not entirely simple. I understand that many of us are not moving in energy, that this topic may not be their own, and it is a really difficult process because we have set up the processes that the European Union has required us to do, and those processes really are not easy. So some things that seem to be very easy to do, the reality is not, and I would like to remind you that we have just approved - sometime a week ago, or when it was - the emergency situation and the order of the Minister to fill the bins can only work this way in an emergency state that will end up again in a few days. It needs to be regulated by law, and this law is thus prepared. I would ask the Chamber of Deputies to support this bill, including the amendment approved by the Economic Committee, because it is for the benefit of the Czech Republic and our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate on this material. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to hold a general debate? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 43. 152 Members and Members are registered for proposal 117. This proposal has been approved. So I am opening up a general debate where I am registering two applications with priority rights. First off, Vice-President Havlíček, then Vice-President Kovářová. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will begin by saying that we will support the law, it is the right step. Changes that are there, in all three areas, whether it concerns the replenishment regime, as far as the DPI is concerned, as well as with the ERUs. I am of the opinion that the energy law is a fundamental thing, that we should not break our political teeth on it, that there are other opportunities for this. Plus, I'm still based on the fact that the Minister of Industry isn't here today, so I respect certain rules. I don't think it would be fair for us to pee on details that the Minister of Finance may not have. That's for the introduction. However, I will take advantage of the fact that this law is now being discussed, and I am also taking advantage of the fact that the Minister of Finance is here, and I would ask him to respond to the three challenges that I will raise here in this context. The first one immediately concerns changes, which we will definitely agree to within a few more tens of minutes, and that is our own refill. It must be, this regime must be supplemented by the fact that traders who will book there and who will have to use it should have certain guarantees, ideally guaranteeing prices, so that if the price were to move - in this case naturally down - so that they would not be left hanging. It's not that they're stuck in it and they can't stand it, it's that they're most likely to project it to prices. So I understand that this is an extraordinary measure - we are in an extraordinary time and this corresponds to what is happening now, but it should still be balanced with discussions with those traders. Well, that's one thing, but if I have the right information, this discussion is ongoing. [[11.20 hours]] The second thing that's connected to this is the possession of the bins. I understand that this is not part of the law, but since it concerns finance and it concerns the next strategic process of the government, I would ask if we could be told whether the state is considering buying or not, that means leaving them in the hands of independent entities. I'm gonna stop by for a little while. Let's respect the fact that we're in a different time. We didn't have the opportunity to buy the magazines because RWE didn't offer them at the time we were with the government, and at the same time we didn't even build new magazines because it wouldn't make sense. If there are bins built by a commercial entity with a total capacity of 2,9 billion cc, then building more bins would make absolutely no sense, because logically no one would have put the gas in there anymore. However, the time has changed, RWE leaves the market, RWE offers stacks and I am actually convinced that the state should not let this opportunity escape. We, as opposition, should not say what form to do this, it is up to the state to decide whether to use a state institution or a newly established company to do this, those are the details, but I believe that the state should have control over those magazines for several reasons. Firstly, this will eliminate the risk of speculation, which means that it will be bought by someone else who can use it in his own favor, or in the detriment of the state, for some time, for some reason, whether security or business. The second thing is that the magazines here certainly did not build RWE to support domestic energy, but to make money on it. That means there should be a certain return. I'm not in the detail right now to tell you what the return is, but I'm assuming that at least ČEZ has already done the analysis, because if I'm not mistaken, he refused to go for it. The government may be making it, but if we can hear what the return is, of course, it's always a return with regard to what the price is, then I'd like to hear the answer to that. But what we're even more interested in, because the state shouldn't speculate and shouldn't say, in my opinion, whether the return is better in six or eight or nine years - of course, the faster the better, but it's some kind of safety insurance. We are in an extraordinary time, which means I have no doubt that the return will be realized at some time by renting - the answer to whether or not the state is going to do it. And the last area I wanted to mention, and I am still holding on to the gas - although it is true that it is already affecting electricity - is in general a situation that the chairman of the Economic Committee has rightly named here, and that we are going to have a hot summer. It's not just gonna be a hot summer, it's gonna be a hot winter, and I'm afraid it's gonna be hot all year 2023. We can see the numbers. We see what is happening in the world's energy prices markets. We see that today prices are being fixed for 2023, and we see the amounts, so it would be illusionary to think that there will be some change and that energy prices will start to fall. ČEZ will be increasing from 1. 7. four times gas, electricity a little less. I am merely pointing out that this is fourfold in relation to last year and twice in relation to the spring of this year, and it can be assumed with a relatively large dose of probability that there will be a further increase at the end of this year. This will mean low-income, but maybe even for some middle-income families of the apocalypse. This will mean tremendous pressure on the corporate sector, which is not only in the situation today that it has huge increased energy costs, fuel costs, but let us not forget that it has even more than a few times higher interest rates, given that there is almost 6% of the recession today. And now I'm saying this with respect to his competitiveness, because foreign entities don't have it. All of this, when he gets together, we're going to have an extremely difficult time and there's no other way than to have to support himself significantly more than it is now. The support is failing today and, in my opinion, it should have been started, but we can argue politically. The second is that autumn will be cruel and that undoubtedly many of the instruments that we have proposed will have to be activated. Then let's talk about which ones are going to be, if this is going to be the forgiveness of payments for renewable resources, which, in my opinion, would be a much more elegant solution to what the Minister of Industry and Trade is doing today, and that is the special tariff, which, essentially mathematically, is not going to be anything else, because it wants to stop some household consumption and we are just saying that through renewable resources it is faster, it is more elegant and it is essentially a German model. Moreover, the state - or the government - can abuse the support any way it wants, but that's the detail. The important thing is that they will have to provide resources for this, and I understand that the Minister of Finance wants to see the resources, and we therefore call for the resources from ČEZ to be used for this. But again, we're saying it in a matter of fact: let's take a look at the numbers. CEZ - I hope to say this correctly from my head - in 2021 it had profit after clearing, let us be objective managers, 23 billion, this year in the first quarter it is already 26 billion. But what is more interesting is that ČEZ's estimate of the profit is now around 50 billion, and two months ago it was about 40 billion, so it can be assumed that the profit will be even greater than the 50 billion. But even if I hold on to only the 50 billion, of course we have to deduct from that what the dividend will be, I understand. Here we recommend not to give in too much to ČEZ to push somewhere 70, 80 per cent, but at this extraordinary time I would not be afraid to push to 90, 95 per cent of the total volume of profit and then, of course, it is the 70 per cent. If we go through this year's mathematics, we will find that between 30 to 35 billion crowns we could manage the dividend from ČEZ. Yes, I understand, in 2022, that means it would be 2023, and of course we need to support now, this year. We don't want to advise the government how to do this, there are certainly more of these options, but I certainly wouldn't wait until 2023. There is an option to use CEZ's undistributed profits, there is quite a lot of resources, but of course it can be bridged in any other way. The important thing is to say how much you could draw out of it. But if we were just talking about CEZ's dividend, and I want to be less optimistic on that edge, that is, somewhere on that Wednesday, it could really be 30 to 35 billion - 32 billion I got 50 billion profit. Then, basically, the support would be covered exactly as we imagined it would be, or that's what we're proposing. And let's talk about what kind of mix it would be, like, through renewables, a special tariff or, like, a value added tax, that's up to the government's decision. So that is all for me and I will be happy if the Minister of Finance responds to these challenges and, if necessary, I am ready for discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u7	Thank you, too, and Vice-President Věra Kovářová will now speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear ministers, today we are discussing a very rapid amendment to the Energy Act, and when we are discussing something on such short notice, it means that either an extremely tense situation has arisen, which requires an urgent solution on a legislative level, or that the government has neglected something and it is necessary to save it subsequently in the House. We're witnessing a special combination here. Indeed, the government did not - and fatally - appreciate a number of risks, but not this government. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] It happened years and months ago, the depth of the failures but it did not show until the last autumn and winter, and now we must hurry. When we look at developments, last year's start of the energy crisis caught us off guard. A dramatic period of crashes and exits of energy companies from the market followed, which happened in the last quarter of last year. The energy crisis then deepened the military attack by the Russian Federation against Ukraine and the subsequent war. The whole sequence of events has shown that at least the last two Czech governments have not done a good job in the field of energy security and have not prepared our country for possible problems. You need to tell yourself the truth. The truth is that now the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Minister Síkela and the entire government are correcting mistakes. But I wish it were so simple that with one vote, we could tick off the energy problem. [[11.30 hours]] Today's unhappy energy price situation is based on two sources. The first is the overall energy crisis. This is something that is objective and with which the Czech Republic itself could not do much. But the second source is past mistakes. The previous governments have not responded to gradual developments in the energy sector, have not done everything necessary for our energy security and have rejected what has already been done. It is fair to admit that part of this drastic price increase is due to global energy development and that part of the money is due to past governments making a number of mistakes. So much for putting today's amendment into more general contexts. What is the matter today on the factual and legislative level? By amending the law, we will create sufficient powers for the government and the Energy Regulatory Authority to force gas storage tanks to a level ensuring a basic level of energy security for the country. It's something we should have had a really long time ago, especially if we look at how absurdly low our gas supply was in our territory before last autumn and winter. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The second thing we are correcting is the mechanism connected with the supplier of the last instance and some technical details around this institute. Here, the autumn and winter energy crisis has taught us some things, and this law is the result of these experiences. It is a way to protect consumers better and more systematically and to regulate, at least in part...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u9	I'm sorry, Madam Vice-President, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep the room down so that they understand what you're saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u10	Thank you. It is a way to protect consumers better and more systematically and to regulate, at least in part, the possible price jumps that people have been exposed to after the fall wave of energy companies crashes. The reasons why we have to rush this law are simple. Firstly, we need to ensure that its effectiveness occurs as soon as possible in order to require sufficient pre-supply of gas and sufficient preparation for the heating season and next winter, and likewise at least some time is needed to introduce changes in the last instance's system of suppliers in order to be upgraded before the next heating season. She is a hot season in the calendar still far away, but in terms of energy and necessary steps is around the corner. I am therefore pleased to note that the House will support, and not only the coalition Members, but also the opposition, the bill. I would only respond to Vice-President Havlíček, through Mr President, and partly answer his questions that this amendment is one of the steps that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Minister Síkela, Minister of Finance and the entire government are preparing, and these will follow. They must be thought out, so they will come gradually. An economical tariff has been mentioned here and investment compensation for companies is also being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u11	Thank you. I note one factual remark by Mr Foldyna and then follow two priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't want to sit here as an energy expert, so I'm not even gonna fuck with Mr. Havlíček, because I know he understands, but I'm gonna be a little overprotective with the previous speaker. You always say that everything was caused by the past government, Babiš, Putin, spring, summer, autumn and winter, and you did nothing, instead of admitting that the energy crisis and the crisis in general, even the inflationary one that comes from the energy crisis, was co-inflicted by you. Your deliriousness in the European Union about the so-called Green Deal, closing nuclear resources in Germany, raising energy prices in our country, closing and declining fossil fuels, instead of modernising them, your emissions trading, and suddenly you're back to the traditional: spring, summer, autumn and winter, Babiš, Putin and you, the stupid opposition that you're always talking about. Please start doing something concrete, just like the Maďar are doing it at the moment, as the Němec do, because the entire inflation and the whole problem depend on energy prices and that we are naked in thorns. So please stop dragging around all the time this spring, summer, autumn and winter, Babiš and everyone else and start doing something concrete and real, like Maďar do. And you still don't want to see it and hear it. That's all I wanted to say at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u13	Thank you, even for keeping time. Mr Radim Fiala and then Vice-President Havlíček will now speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act for the SPD movement. I was one of the members of the Economic Committee who discussed the amendment yesterday. Of course, the amendment can help the Czech Republic in the next period by having at least some gas supply. As far as the part concerning filling gas capacity in the Czech Republic is concerned, it is okay, we will support it. We will also support shortening from six months to three at the DPI, which means the supplier of the last instance and its automatic transfer of clients to normal, ordinary traders, because of course the supplier of the last instance has much higher prices than the traders to which people will be transferred, so it is more advantageous for everyone. And for that reason, of course, as a SPD movement, we have no problem with that, on the contrary. We have supported the legislative emergency, we want the government to buy capacity in storage tanks, which means we will also support this amendment. However, there are other things to be said about. Something has already been said here by Mr. Exministr Havlíček, and that the SPD also supports the State's commitment to the so-called strategic infrastructure, and we believe that reservoirs are simply part of the strategic infrastructure. The Czech Republic, if it has the option - and has the option - should buy them. It is the energy security of the Czech Republic for the future. This means that I am calling on the government here to start discussing this possibility, and I agree that it is not important whether it will come back economically in six, eight or nine years. After all, safety, energy security of the Czech Republic are important. And if anyone in the government coalition thinks that we're going to solve it by building Dukovany in 2035 where two blocks for two blocks will be exchanged, that means that our energy security will not increase at all, then it's simply not a solution that will somehow help us in our future energy security. So we need the government to start talking about buying those magazines. [[11.40 hours]] Another thing I wanted to say on this occasion is that we consider the two points contained in this amendment to the Energy Act to be correct, but it must be said that the government has done nothing to reduce the price of energy in the Czech Republic, and we believe that this option is x. Yesterday we also talked about it online with Minister Síkela and he also recommends the so-called social tariff, which should be done on energy. Remember, if the price of energy increases, of course, inflation increases. This has a very significant impact on the rise in inflation, which is why it is necessary to try to reduce or reduce the price of energy in the Czech Republic. Do you know why inflation is lower in other countries than in the Czech Republic? Because they were trying to reduce, or at least stop, the rise in energy, fuel, and food prices. Those are the main things that can't be avoided. So I also believe that it is necessary to call on the government from this place to introduce a social tariff in order to try to stop energy prices, food, housing, things that simply cannot be avoided in any other way. That means we have two positive steps from the government, and I would like the government to continue them and finally start doing something for Czech citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u15	Thank you. Vice-President Havlíček will now speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u16	Thank you. Well, I admit I don't get it. I was polite, I was correct, I wanted to discuss things, to clarify two, three things, we could have everything done in 20 minutes, and there will be a speech by the Vice-President, who I don't understand at all, which doesn't make any sense. But okay, if we want to talk about numbers, let's talk about them. If we want to deal with security, let's do security. To 1. 11. 2021 we had magazines full of 87 percent. Not us as the state of course, but those who store the gas there. It was the same as it was in the years before. Europe had an average of 77 percent, so we had 10 percent more. Of course, no one knew there was going to be a war, so let's say it was a standard regime. At the time the government handed itself over, which was 17. 12., the magazines were full of 60 percent, perfectly logically, because when it gets cold and it starts, the magazines start to empty, and the European Union averaged 59 percent, so we were plus minus again the same. And to 1. 3. the magazines were full of 16 percent, the European Union of 29 percent. We don't blame the government for that, of course, because they've been emptying out, and to a large extent they're emptying out the way it's cold, which means the way the gas is used every year, absolutely fine. Yes, every year it was then that from March some months were expected and it was always completed before the winter, and if there was no war, there would be no other reason to do so, so all countries do. However, since there was a war, we have called for more stacks to be added. If it's a mix of material reserve management and the motivation of traders, which is logically always going to be more, that's the second thing, we called for it immediately at the beginning of March. From our point of view, it started to take place later than it was supposed to in April, but let's leave it at that. And I've said it before, the Minister of Industry is not here, and I'm gonna be peeping with him elsewhere - if he's looking at us, I'm greeting him - but the important thing is that they've started to complement themselves and that he's even there today, if I'm not mistaken, Minister, even more than 55 percent, I'm getting almost 60 percent, which is good, and it's above the average of the European Union. So there's a chance, if we're gonna approve it this way, we're gonna make it to 80 percent sometime to 1. 11. It's for the clips. And as far as I'm concerned, please, the note on the DPI mode. I mean, we don't argue with any DPI mode. Nothing major changes here. It was set historically sometimes for six months, which we never disputed. It probably gave its logic, the country was never in this situation, and after it was in autumn, it was, in my opinion, quite rightly reached the view that it would not be six months, but that it would be three months with the possibility that the person, when stuck there, became automatically a client after, so I would say technical thing, nothing extraordinary, not error to anyone before, nor any extra remedy. In my opinion, it's more of a material response to protect those clients a little bit more if, for God's sake, there was another situation. As far as gas security is concerned, that would be a long discussion as the European Union built pipelines, a long discussion as to why Nord Stream 1 was building here. I didn't hear the Vice-President banging on the table a few years ago and standing up against the construction of Nord Stream 1. Even Nord Stream 2 was not opposed, nor were we opposed. Yes, we saw that the gas would be a transit source, that we would still use it for ten, fifteen years, and that it would gradually go to new sources, ideally to the core, or renewable sources, and that was how the infrastructure of the whole of Europe was built. Let's see how TurkStream was built, see how Nabucco refused. Europe has created this addiction, and we are logically more dependent by having a pipe led from Germany. We can talk about everything we could do if a Polish pipe was built, why the Polák refused it back then, but that's a really big detail. And as far as strategic supplies are concerned, the state isn't going to invest the bins while the bins are here. That would be total nonsense. That would just be a new magazine. And as for the Material Reserves and Gas Administration, it's never been here. Yes, we can discuss whether this situation will also lead to the fact that, for example, in the future, as we have stored the oil of those plus minus 90 days, if not to store the gas. It has to be objectively said that it will be a blow, because it is not enough money, because now it has been generated gas for 8.5 billion and it is pissed off nothing, that is, it is for really units of days, and it is only for critical infrastructure, and if we want to build something like oil reserves here, we must therefore prepare high tens of billions of crowns. I'm not quite sure this should be the way. Notaben, it's never been here, and I personally believe that a better way than to buy material reserves and build security from our own gas is to motivate those who store gas, and to have those supplies as they have fallen in order to 40 percent. So I would like to ask if we could rather get into a factual discussion, say responsibly what I said here, that is to own the magazines, or use the dividend of ČEZ, and we can quickly end that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u17	Thank you, too. Now I don't see any more applications. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. I was waiting to see if there were any more questions, so I will respond to the three questions that were raised in the speech by Vice-President Havlíček. One: Motivate traders to fill magazines. My answer is yes, it's happening. Second question: ownership of storage bins. I'm not gonna tell you anything about that. Not that I don't want to answer, but I think it's a good principle that the state doesn't comment on potential business operations or confirm them or disprove them, because very often in such a debate, there could be price-setting information that is almost always in the bad hands of the state. Question three: dividends. I think the Vice-President described it exactly, actually I have nothing to add. In the calendar year dividends shall be paid for the previous calendar year. Yes, the assumption of a high profit for the year 2022 is quite simply logically a high dividend for the year 2022, which will be paid in 2023. On the other hand, in all the debates about ČEZ, and how the state is managing it or not, we must realise, firstly, that it is a company listed on the stock exchange. It is subject to strict regulation - not even government members, but I do not think that Members of Parliament should again say information that can be price-setting and affect the price of stock on the stock market. Secondly, the state is 70 percent, so it's not a state company. Yes, there is a significant share of the state, but there are 30% of minority shareholders. It is logical that often the interests of the shareholders cross, this is also the case with another ratio. And with that knowledge, we have to approach it when we manage that share of the stock. It is simply not a company that is in 100 per cent of the state, which can directly give tasks to the government in the context of ownership policy, and there may be other aspects to be followed there than the standard trading company, particularly listed on the stock exchange. [[11.50 hours]] The percentages: I think, Mr Vice-President, through another Vice-President, that we are coming from another base. I don't want to argue, according to my information, the bins have a capacity of 3.4 billion, you said 2.9, and then the percentage doesn't match, but we don't want that. The important thing is that there are 1.86 billion tonight. This is an absolute number and it is true that of course other consumption is in summer and other consumption is in winter, and of course annual consumption affects the course of winter, it is perfectly logical. Let me just remind you that the annual consumption of about 2.5 billion ccs is the consumption of our households.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u19	Thank you. Excuse me, Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u20	And one last thing: I have come to know the amendment adopted by the Economic Committee and, after consulting the Minister of Industry and Trade, when we vote on it, the position will be positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u21	Thank you. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u22	I wanted to thank you for all the answers. For me, it is important that businessmen are motivated, ad 1. Ad 2 I understand access in the context of co-ownership or ownership of those bins. I believe it will turn out the way I thought it would, or how it would be ideal in our opinion, that means that the state will eventually have ownership under control. And as for the clips, I'm not 100% sure there either. I'm based on the fact that the capacity is 2,9 billion and that it's the RWE magazines. Maybe something's gotten bigger now, but it doesn't matter if it's 55 or 60 percent. The important thing is that it's coming true, so from my point of view, thank you for all the answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u23	Thank you. Before I close the general debate, I ask if anyone else is applying? I don't see anyone. In that case, I am ending the general debate. And I ask the Minister, the rapporteur, do you want the final word? It's not like that. I am opening up a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I'm asking, who's reporting for a detailed debate? If no one checks in... The amendment is part of the material, and we will vote on it later in the course of the procedure. I do not see any other application for a detailed debate. If this is the case, I will conclude a detailed debate. And I ask, is the rapporteur or the minister claiming the final word? It's not like that. Here I want to ask whether it is possible for us to proceed directly to the third reading, because we have only one amendment, or do you insist that the material be printed and distributed on tables? Assuming no one disputes this procedure, we will continue with the third reading. No one disputes, and therefore, because according to § 99 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act may follow in the short term the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second, I am initiating the third reading of the Government Bill, and I expect the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Ivan Adamec, to follow with me from the rapporteur's table the debate that I am opening with this. No one's checking in. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Here too, I ask whether the Minister, the rapporteur, wants to speak? It's not like that. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Ivan Adamec, to introduce us to the voting procedure and then guide us to this procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u24	Thank you, Mr President, dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I am not sure whether we can vote directly on the proposal as a whole, because the amendment is already part of the motion for a resolution. So do we have to talk about the amendment? Okay, I'm sorry, we're gonna vote on the amendment first and then on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u25	That's right, that's standard procedure. This means that the proposal is that we will vote on the amendment of the Economic Committee and then on the law as a whole. Is there any contradiction with the proposed procedure? It's not. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll check you out. I'll ask you to re-engage. And now I'm going to ask you to lead us through the voting procedure, and I'm going to put it to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u26	Yes, we should now vote on the amendment to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u27	The Minister's position? [[Minister Stanjura: Agreed.]] Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 44, 154 Members and Members signed up for proposal 152. This amendment was adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u28	And now we can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-003-002.u29	Thank you and I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, and Act No. 382/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 225, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 45; 154 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 153, against none. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And I'm done discussing this point. I'll read the apologies that have arrived. Thursday 2. 6th from 1 pm until the end of the day, for reasons of work, Minister Vlastimil Válek apologizes. I also amend Mrs Knechtová's apology, which apologizes today from 18 a.m. to the end of the day, and today from 9.40 a.m. to 11.15 for working reasons, Mr Marek Výborný apologizes. And now we will continue to discuss the points as they have been approved on the agenda for today's meeting. I'm opening another item on the agenda.
