ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 41st session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first check you all out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I would like to inform you that the whole date - health reasons - health reasons - medical Adamová - medical reasons - medical Markéta - medical Štolpa - medical reasons, Bauer Jan whole Babišová - Špičák Julius, Bělobrádek Pavel whole David - family skopeček, Benešík Ondřej whole day - foreign travel, Blaha Stanislav Šebelová day - foreign travel, Bžoch Jaroslav until 16.30 - foreign travel, Navrátil Jiří Wenzl day - Jaroslava reasons, Dvořák Okamura whole day - medical Michaela - medical reasons, Feranec Milan Kasal David - medical reasons - medical Radek, Flek Josef Pokorná Petra - Kohajda Smetana - Karel reasons, Hájek Martin from 19 hours - medical Olga, Havel Matěj Ondřej whole day - free of charge, Šimon Šimon until 16.30 - foreign travel, Jáč Ivan whole day - medical reasons - Pastuchová days - working days, Health reasons, Health Munzar On the whole Vojtěch day The members of the government apologize: Baxa Martin all day - foreign trip, Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna whole day - personal reasons, Jurečka Marian whole day - family reasons, Kupka Martin whole day - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena whole day - foreign trip, Lipavskýý Jan whole day - foreign trip, Nekula Zdeněk whole day - foreign trip, Rakušan Vít whole day - working reasons, Síkela Jozef whole day - working reasons and Válek Vlastimil until 15.30 apologizes for working reasons. So many apologies. Madam Members, I would now like to inform you of the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose the following procedure this week. Firstly, today, it is 25 October, we propose to discuss the points in the following order: paragraph 10, House printing 254, value added tax, second reading; paragraph 22, House printing 289, pedagogical staff, first reading, and then continue the points according to the approved agenda. On the basis of the agreement of the MPs, we would, if necessary, act after 19, 21 and 24 hours, which we would then vote on. Secondly, tomorrow, this is Wednesday, 26 October, we propose to discuss the points in the following order: paragraph 117, House printing 291, granting benefits to disabled persons, third reading; Point 1, House printing 315, State budget for 2023, first reading, with the House of Deputies acting until the end of item 1. Furthermore, at 13.30, we propose a firm inclusion of Election Point 123, a proposal to elect a representative of the Ombudsman. If this option is unsuccessful in the first round, we will then agree on the second round. In conclusion, I have two intel. On Thursday, 27 October, the Chamber of Deputies will not act under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs. And I would remind you that paragraph 114, House Press 284, amendment to the State Budget for 2022, third reading, has already been discussed at another meeting - please do not apply it, there is no need to vote on this. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. And now I'm asking if anyone is interested in changing the approved agenda of the 41st meeting? I have an application for a priority-right programme... President Jakob withdraws his application, President Jakub Michálek also withdraws his application, so now we have Mr. Tomio Okamura, who I don't see here, but here I feel that he has applied with a priority right to the state budget, Mr. Fiala, and I have a priority right here for the Olga Richterová programme, which I do not see here, and according to my apologies, she has been excused, so nothing. Yes, I have noted with priority the right of President Alena Schillerová, please, to propose a change. And before I give you my word, I have a message. Mrs Monika Oborná votes with a replacement card 33. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the days before, I am proposing a change in the agenda, and I propose today as the first item in this meeting day a point entitled Communication of the Government Coalition and Stock Exchange Control. [[14.10 hours]] And let me begin with the winged: I recant what I have called back, and I promise what I have promised, because this is how the steps of the government could be described in the last days. First, the government is going to introduce a new special tax on extraordinary profits, which will apply from 1 January 2023, but it wouldn't be a government five-calice if it hadn't come up with some surprise. This surprise meant a fall in the Prague Stock Exchange, a fall in the stock price, by CZK 31 billion. And let's do it all over again. On Tuesday last week, Vice-President Olga Richterová's Twitter account revealed information that the tax on extraordinary profits should be paid this year, and thus retrospectively. On Wednesday morning, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, responded similarly. Of course, investors responded immediately to such an impulse, and the shares of companies that should be subject to this tax began to fall sharply. I'm talking mostly about CEZ Group shares and selected banks. This information caused the decline in ČEZ shares, Komerční banka, Česká spořitelna and others by a total of CZK 31 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u3	Yes, thank you, colleagues and colleagues, for keeping yourselves quiet. Please, Madam President, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Almost 31 billion crowns in such a short time, so that is the performance - thoughtless, reckless and stupid. Do members of the government even realize that such outputs are crashing investors' confidence in the capital market? And I don't want to communicate at all the possibility that these steps are purposeful. I believe rather, I want to believe rather that it is amateurism of the five-calice. It's still very bad news. It wouldn't be a government five-wheeler if it was over. After Wednesday's government meeting Zbyněk Stanjura came up with the fact that the retrospective introduction of this year's tax does not count. Hail! At least one good news in a flood of bad news. So he denied his five-calice colleagues' claims. However, I find it to be the height of his impudence to claim that it is chaos for journalists who ask cabinet members questions about the government agenda. I don't think this is serious anymore. Journalist, you're asking too many questions and you're asking too soon. However, only two hours after recording the amendment to the Special Profits Amendment from the Minister of Finance Stanjura as a member of another member of the Government Coalition, Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek, he recorded his next amendment to the Extra Profits Tax, in which he fundamentally changes the basic parameters of this tax compared to the proposal of Minister Stanjura. First, it demands that the said - first proposed, then denied - retrospective taxation, also significantly reduces the tax rate from 60 per cent to 40 per cent, plus it wants to tax all banks, not only the large ones, but also the medium-sized banks. So for me, the government of chaos continues, and we are actually watching live that this five-calice government is not only saying that the fundamental tax change, which it has calculated or dreamed of at 85 billion, is loading in the form of an amendment, is still communicating that it will cause stock market losses for large companies, and we are finally learning in the atrium from journalists that it is not even scheduled to last until the last moment. So this is the government's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u5	Thank you. The President of Tomio Okamura shall apply with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we as the SPD will fully support the proposal to include an extraordinary point called Communication of the Government Coalition and Stock Exchange Influence. I would add, but that is already my statement - incompetent and faulty communication, because it is the fact that Vice-President of the House for Pirates Olga Richterová and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka caused damage to at least CZK 31 billion according to a number of economists. Vice-President of the House of Pirates Olga Richterová and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, at the same time Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, one of the top representatives of the Fialův Government Five-calice...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u7	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, to disturb you. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. You guys quieted down a little while ago, yes, well done, thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u8	So these two, one of the top leaders of the five government, Petr Fiala, with their statements in the media and on social networks about efficiency or inefficiency - no one really knows that, because there is such confusion and chaos in the government that we do not know until the last moment what the government coalition really wants to present - precisely about the introduction of extraordinary taxation of energy companies and banks, the so-called windfall tax, by telling Mrs Richterová and Mr Jurečka that they want to introduce this tax since 2022, they have caused a fall in the shares of the companies concerned, which have lost at least CZK 31 billion, with more than half of this amount being due to CEZ, which is majority-owned by the state. This amount was thus lost by the shareholders of these companies, especially the Czech state, mainly the Czech citizens, in a few hours they lost it only because of these stupid incompetent and ill-considered statements made by the top representatives of the government's five-calice, Petr Fiala. Both these government politicians publicly stated that the government would introduce an exceptional sector tax, the so-called windfall tax, already on the profits of 2022, and the stock exchange responded to this by jumping into a weakening of the shares of the companies concerned. But it later turned out that this information was not true, because the Minister of Finance Stanjura for the ODS said that it wouldn't be valid until 2023, but it was too late, because in the meantime the shares of these companies had already fallen. It is therefore a repeated example of extraordinary dilettantism among representatives of government parties, which harm the Czech Republic, its companies and citizens. Who will pay for this damage and who will be responsible for it? And wasn't that a dedicated statement that was supposed to benefit someone? In the event that this, and this, would be the case, for example, in the United States, there is, of course, a threat for such cursing expressions of many years of severe punishment, and it is, of course, a criminal act. This example clearly shows how much the provisions on the material and criminal liability of politicians are missing in the Czech rule of law, which is the long-term proposal of the SPD movement since its establishment. And the fact that five-calice politicians can't agree on what proposals they actually propose, what they want to put forward, and in the meantime, they do damage to tens of billions of companies that can't do it because they're being talked about without them - and I'm no bank advocate or any other firm, but that's not how the rule of law can work. It's an incredible blunder, and I'm asking what kind of damage your government wants to do. You have already damaged millions of citizens of the Czech Republic who have no energy, by not doing so, unlike all other European states, by not helping, you are already putting thousands of Czech companies into huge financial problems, companies are failing, releasing employees, and now you are causing damage in the tens of billions of crowns by your ill-considered and dilettant statements. [[14.20 hours]] So we fully support the opposition proposal and will, of course, support this proposal called Communication of the Government Coalition and Stock Exchange influence. I think that even in your interest, it should be discussed here and clarified how and why this government is doing it in such an incompetent way. I saw Prime Minister Petr Fiala here a moment ago that he was entering the hall, but apparently when he heard what the opposition is proposing, he probably left the hall again, or hid somewhere so he wouldn't be around to see me. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u9	Mr President, I am sorry, does this mean that you are in agreement with the point proposed by the President and do you not want to supplement it? [[I do.]] You're converging, okay. So you're not suggesting a new point? [[No.]] Excellent. The President of the Excellent shall have priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to ask extraordinarily for the inclusion of a new item as the first item in today's negotiations. It will be a very quick and formal matter. I apologize from this place, by your means, President Schillerová, for not being able to tell her. This is a shortening of the deadline between first and second reading to 30 days in the law number of the House press 296. It's medical review. It is in consensus with the entire Chamber of Deputies. So please include a new item entitled "Proposal to shorten the legal deadline for discussion in the Committees of the House of Press 296, first reading, as the first item of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u11	So that point is the motion to shorten the legal deadline between the first and second readings of the House of Press 296. Thank you. Anyone else checking in to change the program? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, we would vote on the proposals from Gremia as I just read them here. If there is no objection, we would vote on the proposals from the Gremium at once. There seems to be no objection. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We'll wait a little while longer before the coworkers and co-workers from the lobby arrive. Let me just say that we are going to vote on the proposals, as they said on the Gremium, and all of them at the same time. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 133, registered by 149 Members and Members, for 142, against none. The proposal was adopted and the proposals from the Gremium were approved. We would now vote on President Schillerová's proposal. [[There's an organizational worker coming in, and he's objecting.]] Before we proceed to the vote on the two new points proposed, we will vote on the following. Since proposals have been adopted to amend the approved programme, as proposed by the Grémium, it is necessary to vote on 25 October today, on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Clubs, that the Chamber of Deputies should act on both territorial and procedural terms and vote on 19, 21 and 24 hours. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 134, 152 Members and Members, for 140, against none. The motion was accepted. We would now proceed to the vote on the newly proposed points. The first proposal was the proposal by President Schillerová, who proposes a new point called Communication of the Government Coalition and Stock Exchange influence. I've logged the logout request, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm asking you to sign in with your ID cards. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. We are therefore voting on the proposal by President Schillerová. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 135, 152 Members of Parliament signed in for 74, versus 65. The motion was denied. We would now proceed to the vote on the second proposal. This is President Excellent's proposal, which proposes item Proposition to shorten the legal deadline between first and second reading, House press 296. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 136, 154 Members and Members, in favour of 152, against none. The motion was accepted. So that means we've placed a new point. We will now vote on the proposal to include it. The President has proposed to include this point as the first point, today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 137, 154 Members and Members, for 154, against none. The motion was accepted. So we put the point first on today's day. President Schillerová shall report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u12	I suppose you could expect to reject my proposed point and supported by the entire opposition, but I hope that at least someone from the government camp will find the courage - we have the Prime Minister here, we have the Minister of Finance - to express yourself and at least explain to us what this communication is supposed to mean. You're playing with fire. I believe that the competent authorities should simply examine what happened on the stock exchange. So I challenge you, at least come to this microphone, find courage and explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-000-000.u13	Thank you, and now we would like to start discussing item one, and that is item 159.
