ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 21st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 51 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 27 April 2022. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Oldřich Černý and Member Michal Zuna. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see, I'm gonna go on and call my colleagues and colleagues to the ballroom. And now we will vote on the verifiers of today's meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 1, registered by 128 Members, for 124, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the verifiers of the 21st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members of the Oldřich Černý and Member Michal Zuna. I hereby declare that until the beginning of the meeting, the following Members requested to apologise for their absence to the proceedings: Romana Bělohlávková from 14:00 - working grounds, Ondřej Benešík throughout the day - foreign trip, Milan Brázdil until 12.15 - working grounds, Klára Dostálová from 8.30 to 9.30 - working grounds, Lenka Dražilová for the whole working day for work, Martin Exner for the whole working day - foreign trip, Milan Feranec, full meeting day - medical reasons, Jaroslav Foldyna, full working day - working grounds, Martin Hájek, full working day - family Janulík, Jan Skopeček Miloslav, full working day - Kasal day - working day - working day - medical reasons, Václav Král, full working Petra - medical reasons - whole working day - medical reasons - Karel day - Rais day, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová up to 10 hours - working Jiří, Strýček Marie, full working day - foreign travel, Lucie Potůčková, full working day - working day - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical Ženíšek - medical reasons, full Karel Tureček - medical reasons - medical reasons - Wenzl Milan, whole day - medical Marek - medical David - medical reasons - medical reasons, whole day, whole day - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical Ivo - medical Vondrák, whole day, whole day, whole day, full medical reasons - working day. They apologize from the members of the government: Petr Fiala, all day - foreign trip, Mikuláš Bek, all day - foreign trip, Pavel Blažek, all day for work reasons, Petr Gazdík all day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan all day for work reasons, Nekula Zdeněk all day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal, all day - working reasons. Mrs Helena Válková also apologizes for her illness. Mrs Klára Dostálová cancels her apology. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 21st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. And now here I have applications with priority rights. He's the first to sign up... Yes, is the plaintiff reporting? Yes, they prefer you, so please, Mr Vice-President, with priority rights. And now Vice-President Havlíček will speak with priority rights as plaintiff or as plaintiffs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u2	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. It is a number of times that we are dealing with a set of laws that can to a large extent help households and help companies grow energy prices. As I have done several times before, I will focus on the issue of renewables and the associated potential resources, which could be from the emission allowances yield. I will not repeat what I have said many times here, but I will try to show it from another side today, because the good news that is beginning to flash through the House is that a number of coalition Members are beginning to quite objectively nod their heads to the fact that renewable resources could really be a journey. There's only one thing I'm asking you to say in public. You're telling me this in the galleys, telling me that it's not a bad solution at all, and that it's an elegant way to support households and businesses without saying - and it's important at this point - to support what the coalition doesn't want, and that's high-income households. I will try to explain this once more, and please feel free to oppose and tell me what is wrong with this solution, all the more so because it is an instrument that is being used in a number of countries, including Germany. I understand that we are arguing about whether the aid is more general or targeted. We are promoting that aid is, as far as possible, of a general nature, because it is far from just low-income households, but it is medium-income households and it is also companies. On the contrary, the coalition advocates that this be only for a narrow group of 5 percent of households, companies almost at all, if I do not take any warranty instruments. This is our long-term dispute. And it is the renewable resources that, in my opinion, but also in the opinion of some of you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u3	Mr Vice-President, I am very sorry and I will ask my colleagues to move their conversations into the lobby and allow them to concentrate on the Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. So renewables and charges are what could solve our dispute to a large extent. What is being played here, I will just repeat: CZK 45 billion each year will fall on the fortel of renewable resources. $19 billion goes to households and businesses, the rest goes to the state budget. This is the result of long-term support for photovoltaics in particular, the solar tunnel from 2006 to 2010 makes the largest part of it. We have to do this, we have to pay for this, and we are going to pay for it until 2030. One thing is what the state pays, the other is what the companies pay and what the households pay. Let me do it again: 19 billion crowns. Each of us gets it on a bill, on an invoice, companies see it clearly, they see how much they pay for renewables. [[8.10 hours]] Now, what's the point? If the coalition says it doesn't want to support high-income households, I might not agree with it, so this is an instrument where we can avoid it, because we can set it up to prepare for average household consumption or for any other household consumption. To put it simply, those who have a certain consumption will receive the support. If we agree on average, which I think is quite logical, then all those who have above-average consumption, let's say you're richer, that wouldn't be about that at this point. The brilliant thing about this tool is that the state can - can, I'm not saying it has to - that's why we recommend that the law be passed and the government always decide whether or not to activate it. The state can charge any amount for families or companies by either completely forgiving the payment for renewable resources - so let's imagine that the household has, like, CZK 1,000, so with a simple operation through the Energy Regulatory Office, uncomplicatedly, it will forgive the amount of CZK 1,000 - or the state can say: it will not be the whole CZK 1,000 and it will need a 500, and even, and I think that it is very clever, it can set even more support. This means that it will not be a thousand, but perhaps 1,500, it is the so-called negative amount - that is, the consumer will pay not only 1 000 CZK less for renewable resources, but even 500 less by paying less for electricity no longer loaded with renewable resources. This I think is simple, clear and the state can immediately regulate the form of support. He'll have it ready. As I have already said here, the state can stop the support, such as the average consumption of the household or any other consumption, so nobody has to worry about rich households subsidizing through renewable resources, and those to whom the coalition does not want to pay the support. Well, that's another thing, in my opinion, a handy thing. For another, extremely important, and here I would really like you to consider this. Once the support is set through renewable resources, it can support not only the household, such as the low-income or medium-income, but also the company, while any other tools are usually without the possibility of supporting companies. What forms of support do we want for companies today from high energy prices? We don't have many. We can support highly energy-intensive companies, yes, it is done from time to time, but these are rather tens, perhaps hundreds of large companies that have really extreme costs with emission allowances, but there are tens of thousands of other entities that have a big problem. And this could be quite elegant to use, those companies could get 15 to 20 percent. But again, it depends on how much the state would say. Next, it would be symbolic. I have deliberately said here that the vast part of the payments for renewable resources and charges is tied to the crazy period 2006 to 2010. There was the biggest problem, and thanks to this only photovoltaics will cost us 600 billion crowns by 2030, 600 billion crowns! And I'm going to say it once again: 600 billion, with production below 3%. This was a huge failure of the then government, then Parliament. But now we have the opportunity to at least symbolically show that, at a time when there is an energy crisis, a household or a company for a period of one, maybe two years, depending on how it would be set, these charges would not apply for a solar tunnel. Next, it's amazingly simple, let's not invent a bike. All social support, however well-meaning may be, is about what? That someone has to go to the employment office, they'll stand up in line, fill out ten forms, okay, maybe it'll get better, and it'll take five forms, four in a minute, but it's complicated. We're burdening the state system, we're burdening the people. We can do this simply by not paying anything. I say again, with a relatively simple operation through the Energy Regulatory Authority, but it needs to change the law. That's what we're proposing here. So it's as simple as the state, it saves the work of a huge number of officials who don't know where their heads are nowadays, they still don't keep up, it saves the nerves of all those who ask, but most importantly, let's also realize that many of those who ask have problems filling it out. It's just not that trivial for everyone. So this would just be about paying less. I understand one thing you're going to say: okay, it doesn't sound bad, but it's all about money, it's all about resources. We have two ways to deal with it. The first option is that only the payments to solar investors would be postponed by a year or two, i.e. 2022, 2023. Why? Because the amount of CZK 45 billion we pay each year is from 2010 to 2030. What would that even mean? That solar investors wouldn't get the money until 2024 or 2023, depending on how we set it up, and then it would be two years longer, so it would pay them off not until 2030, but until 2031 or 2032. Again, it depends on whether we put it in a year or two. Yes, you can say, but what about the solar investors, they won't be a year or two without support? I would understand that, and here we either have an option that would be very invasive, that is, hard to use by two years, or give them an interest-free state loan for that time so they can have the cash and be able to cover it up. [[Extend?]] I don't think that would be a bad thing. I'm saying again, it would just move on. If this wasn't feasible, then yes, it's up to the state budget resources, and here we're proposing two options. I understand that the budget is somehow planned, I understand that even during this crisis period, it does not want to be so much involved, even though I think it is not good, because it is an extraordinary time and the state budget should be able to support it in crisis years, but we have a higher income that we can manage. The first thing is emission allowances. And that is the other law that we are presenting here with my colleague Brabc and others, and it is the law on the terms and conditions for trading emission allowances for greenhouse gas emissions. What's going on? We're paying for emission allowances, and it's logically due to go back. The revenues are significantly larger than we expected. Yes, the proceeds will be up to sometime by 2027, maybe even a little longer. We were still assuming under our government, given the then emission allowances prices, which we will not affect here in the Czech Republic, that it could be 150 billion in that period. It's going to be more, significantly more. Now, I don't want to speculate how much more it's going to be, but there's no way it could be 400, 500 billion. It depends on whether the emission allowance will cost 90 euros if it costs more and so on. What are we saying? That if we help each other and the Modernization Fund, where emission allowance revenues go, we use part of it for support, a reasonable part, we have it covered. And now there may be an argument when you say, okay, but the Modernization Fund is that there is revenue from emission allowances coming in to build a new modern energy here. I get it, I do, but that's what we've been counting on, the 150 billion. If we're going to have 300 or 400 or more at the end, then we have a source to use this. Do you know how much money that is? And once again, you can say, but it drips gradually. Okay, it doesn't go at once, it's obvious, but it goes at tens of billions a year. And we don't need hundreds of billions to support that today. So by adjusting this law, we would immediately get 8 billion crowns for 2022 and 9 billion crowns for 2023. That's not enough. We can beautifully combine this with extraordinary dividends from ČEZ. Even as a result of the energy crisis, ČEZ will not have a profit, as it had in 2021, of CZK 23 billion, but will have a profit, so far according to the latest forecasts, between 38 and 42 billion. If I simply calculate it, the state has 75 percent, so the question is how much of it it will download, but the state can withdraw plus minus 15 billion more than in previous years, or in the last year at least. If I take the Modernization Fund and just the 8 billion for next year or this year, nine next year, and I would add the other 15 billion, then we're at twenty-three, twenty-four billion. And that's the amount that would definitely cover our renewables, because that's 19 billion, and that's what's left over to support through the value added tax. [[8.20 hours]] And if we wanted to, I guarantee that we will find more money, even from the Modernization Fund, there may be a higher profit in ČEZ. And I only take these two sources. There are other sources that are due to inflation income and so on. But I'm only deliberately pairing it with the energy thing, so it's fair. So please tell me why these higher incomes, which we will obviously have as a result of the energy crisis, why don't we use them to support energy, or increase energy prices? Everything would be resolved, and as it would affect citizens and companies, it depends on how it would combine with the dépéháček - if I didn't put a depéháček in there and talk about only renewable resources, so it's about 15, somewhere even 20 percent. And that's not enough. Imagine that companies pay three times, four times as much today, and if they save 20 percent, notabene would be a bit of satisfaction for having increased income from emission allowances thanks to these companies. I think that's a fair solution, that it's no populism, that it's a reasonable idea, and that's what's being used in other countries. Germany set it up very elegantly like this. Yes, Germany didn't set it 100%, which means that they would all forgive 100 percent of the payments for renewables, but plus minus it put somewhere at 50 percent. But be careful, they didn't have the solar tunnel in Germany either. There, when they supported, they supported reasonably, by building renewable resources while there was adequate support. In our country we did it by stuffing 600 billion crowns into it, producing electricity will be less than 3% and we have a tunnel like when Karlštejn stole it. Let's at least show these people that in times of evil, we can work with this, and we know how to get the money we're paying in there, and we can work it out. I believe I have shown a guide that is reasonable that has nothing to do with populism and that would help everyone. And please, if anyone is performing, tell me what's wrong with this proposal. And I thank everyone I communicate with, and from the opposition, who thinks of it as one of the most reasonable proposals here. But it's not just about me, it's about convincing your government officials, too. All it takes is one thing to adopt these laws and let your government officials, if they want, can activate this. And if they don't, they won't activate, nothing will happen, but they have the tool in their hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u5	děkovat you, Mr Vice-President, and now with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a lovely day to see you again, and let me tell you why we are meeting at this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies which initiated the ANO movement. According to Eurostat, the Czech Republic is the third highest inflation in the whole of the European Union. According to the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices, we had a 11.9 percent annual increase in inflation in March. According to the index of consumer prices, which quantifys ČSÚ and also contains the so-called imputed rent, which is the specificity of the Czech Republic - it is actually counting its own housing - we achieved a dizzy 12.7 percent in March 2022, which was 1.6 percentage point more than in February. Experts call this "falling inflation," with Governor Jiří Rusnok telling us that the ceiling for inflation could be up to a few percentage points higher, at a limit of 14 percent. In particular, growth in fuel and oil prices has accelerated - to 50,6 percent. In February it was only - in quotation marks only - 31 percent, electricity prices by 24,7 %, February 22,6 %, natural gas by 37.7 %, February 28,3 %, products and services for routine maintenance and repair of flats by 16,4 %, February 14,5 %, heat, hot water by 13.9 %, February 12,4 %. The rental prices from the apartment also increased by 4.4 %, aqueous by 5.3 %, net by 6.4 %, solid fuels by 19.9 %. Food - flour prices were 30,3% year on year, semi-fat preserved milk by 20,1%, butter by 31,9% and potatoes by 21,4%. Between November 2021 and March 2022, the rise in food prices, which is the end of our government and the present, a few months, allow me a few more numbers. When we left, the price of butter was 168.87 CZK per kilo according to the data of the CZSO, now according to the CZSO the price of butter is 178,66 CZK per kilo. The bread was CZK 29,82 per kilo. Today it costs CZK 34.88 per kilo. A whole 58.44 kroner chicken, today people pay 61.70 kroner per kilo. Pork ham increased from CZK 220.71 per kilo to CZK 236.97 per kilo. The pork roast cost CZK 88.23 a kilo, and today it costs CZK 96.35 a kilo. Oranges were CZK 25,13 per kilo, today CZK 27,95 per kilo, tomato apples red CZK 64,96 per kilo, now CZK 82,31 per kilo. eidam went to CZK 163.15 per kilo, now he goes to CZK 185.24 per kilo. Smooth wheat flour used to cost CZK 14,41 a kilo, today worth CZK 16.31 a kilo. Clothing prices increased by 19.9 percent and shoes by 15.4 percent. The increase in public transport is by 21,6 percent. As a result of such extremely high inflation of the Czech household, the decline in real wages in 2022 is predicted to be as high as 7 percent and even a decline in real wages in the second quarter of this year affects 10 percent. The value of confidence in the so-called index of economic sentiment is the lowest in Czech consumers in almost ten years, at 81.3 - and is still falling dynamically. Unfortunately, in this respect, I have to say that the government is doing very, very little. The help she presented clearly doesn't work. Record price growth threatens not only the weakest income levels of the population, but also the middle income layer of the country's population is affected. The phenomenon of price level growth can be monitored not only in the Czech Republic but also in the surrounding countries. It's basically a global phenomenon. Its cause is the disruption of supplier-customer relations as a result of the health crisis, the monetary expansion of most countries in the world and, of course, the situation is accelerated by the conflict in Ukraine. Our government has already dealt with the jumping price increase primarily by energy. Our government responded to the sharp increase in energy prices in world markets with a general pardon for the value added tax for the supply of electricity or gas for November and December last year. This general pardon, which I also signed as Minister of Finance, was strongly felt by all Czech consumers. The proposal to reduce VAT was reflected in November according to the Czech Statistical Office by reducing electricity prices by more than 16 percent, gas by more than 11 percent. In view of the exceptional situation that continued in 2022, our government also approved a proposal for an amendment to the VAT Act, which would exempt the supply of electricity and gas by 21 % for the entire current year 2022. As a result, there would be a reduction in the impact of an increase in energy prices for all customers and thus all Czech households and businesses without exception. Unfortunately, our proposal was abolished by five coalitions without discussion and since then the government has not been able or willing to respond to this inflation situation. Our movement has provided a clear recipe for helping citizens. This recipe is applied in many countries of the European Union and has clear results. [[8.30 hours]] These landscapes are better off in terms of inflation growth than the Czech Republic. Of course, it is clear to us that price growth cannot be completely stopped. However, our goal is to slow this growth so that it does not affect Czech citizens to such an extent. Our recipe is a temporary general excuse to reduce VAT on fuel and a temporary general excuse to reduce VAT on energy. In view of the above dynamic increase in fuel prices, which are due to the increase in consumer fuel prices, our movement proposes to amend the Value Added Tax Act in such a way that the value added tax imposed on fuel, diesel and petrol is changed in such a way that, instead of the basic rate of tax, the application of the tax exemption with a right to deduct tax would be to mitigate this situation, which most affects low-income households, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and reduces population mobility. At the same time, increasing fuel sales prices may lead to an increase in inflation as a result of a dynamic rise in prices for logistics services, virtually projected everywhere. And the second way in which the government can really help Czech citizens is by exempting from VAT on energy. In view of the above dynamic increase in the global energy price resulting from the increase in energy prices, our movement is proposing to amend the Value Added Tax Act so that instead of the basic tax rate, the tax exemption is applied with a right to deduct tax, thereby reducing this situation, which most affects low-income families and small entrepreneurs. Of course, the current high-inflationary environment in the Czech Republic can threaten and threaten - we see it in the media - social reconciliation. We can also look at the surrounding countries, which, unlike the current five-calice, help their citizens in times of crisis. Germany, for example, came from surrounding countries with a tax advantage of 300 euros, roughly CZK 7,400, and a reduction in fuel prices for three months. The Germans want to make it easier for people commuting by car by reducing fuel prices by 30 cents, roughly CZK 7.40 per litre of petrol, by 14 cents, which is roughly CZK 3.50 per litre of diesel. The Němec don't even forget their low-income residents, they released CZK 3.17 billion into one-off aid. A very reasonable step was taken by the Němec as well as by public transport. For a period of three months, they will introduce a discounted ticket, which will cost EUR 9 per month. So, while they decided to support public transport in Germany, our government decided to reduce public transport discounts for a large proportion of the population, i.e. for pensioners and students, thereby doubling their fares. The five-calice therefore quite unreasonablely cancels public transport discounts, which are increasingly important - and we certainly agree - even more environmentally friendly than transport by passenger cars. Why aren't all environmental activists on alert, it's a mystery to me. Poland has already introduced similar steps before Germany, which reduces VAT to gas, from 1 January 2022 from 23 % to 8 percent and from 1 February from 8 percent to 0 percent. In Poland, it's just possible. At the same time, the Polish cabinet comes up with a significant reduction in excise duty on fuel, with complete remission of VAT rates on basic foodstuffs and at the same time a reduction in VAT on electricity of 5%. But also Slovakia, don't let us go so far. Slovakia, a country with lower inflation and higher government debt than the Czech Republic, also agreed with the largest electricity producer in the country, the Slovak power plants, that until the end of 2024 people would be collecting electricity at the same price as now, which was to save more than CZK 12,000 for individual households. The Slovak Government announced a package of new measures for almost EUR 1.3 billion, where child allowance increases, tax bonus and at the same time receive a one-time contribution from families with children, seniors, households in material distress and other groups. A vast majority of the European Union countries have taken similar steps. Why can't we? We have some of the healthiest public finances, we have extraordinary revenues in the state budget, we have inflation on April 2022, I draw from the Treasury performance of the Ministry of Finance, to collect taxes and insurance almost 50 billion more, exactly CZK 47.3 billion. At this point, I ask - where did the will of the members of the government coalition go to help? Why can Members who have asked us to extend aid during the pandemic period with the impact of hundreds of billions of crowns on public budgets fail to support Czech citizens at a time of so-called falling inflation? Why is it not taking action that introduces a vast majority of European Union countries, such as reducing VAT and changing tax rules for fuels, electricity and gas, or introducing price ceilings for rocket fuel prices? The Czech path chosen by Petr Fiala is to allow the consequences of the whole price increase to Czech citizens. Yet it is the state that benefits from price increases, for example, for fuel prices, almost half of it is heading to the state budget. After all, the Prime Minister's advisors and the government are calling for this general step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u7	děkovat you, Madam President, and now President Tomio Okamura will speak with priority. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this extraordinary meeting, at the initiative of the opposition, is to discuss opposition proposals that will help with expensiveness and which will make life cheaper for our citizens by taking concrete steps, as the government of Petr Fiala of the ODS refuses to address the expensive and throws citizens into ever greater and greater financial problems. Our proposals are based on the principle that it is much better than giving people alms, subsidies and contributions to make life cheaper and simpler. Inflation and expensiveness, if caused by high prices of energy, fuel and food, can only be suppressed by trying to make these products cheaper. This can be done in several ways. For one thing, these are, of course, taxes that are extremely high in the case of these commodities today, and on the other hand, diversification of energy sources is needed, increased rationalization of energy production, and, of course, energy purchases abroad must be terminated indirectly through intermediaries and, on the other hand, we must be able to buy directly. The state has a majority in CEZ and could order direct sale of energy at cost prices plus - and let's call it cost prices - plus a reasonable margin without the profit that the brokers have on the stock exchange. Call it a social tariff for citizens of the Czech Republic and our companies. [[8.40 hours]] In the future, the share in ČEZ needs to be increased. The ideal situation would be if we exported only excess energy after the needs of Czech households and companies have been met. In this sense, the SPD is preparing a bill that we will shortly submit to the Chamber of Deputies, because today it is the opposite, and the government of Petr Fiala does not want to do anything about it. At the same time, distribution companies that manage networks need to be addressed. Here's another big energy price item for transmission, up to 40 percent. In the case of gas, a long-term direct contract with suppliers from both Russia and Norway or other countries is desirable following the model of Austria, Hungary and other countries. And there needs to be massive support for the energy self-sufficiency of households. In practice, many family houses can be energy-sufficient, and investment in the order of hundreds of thousands is needed. In fact, almost half of households could have at least a part of their energy free of charge for life. Of course, this support must be targeted directly at households, not as it is today for speculators in solar and other energy businesses, who are still often registered in tax havens. The government coalition of Petr Fiala can and should immediately reduce taxes on the most important commodities - VAT and excise duties on fuel and food. By the way, I would like to add that they do not have VAT in many developed countries, they have only a simple turnover tax and these taxes are in one-digit numbers, such as Japan, the US, but even China. It returns to the state in higher turnover, companies have lower bureaucratic burdens, and people get it back at lower prices. Of course, as far as excise taxes and VAT are concerned, I will stop here for a moment, I would say completely inadequate government proposal to reduce fuel prices, because, of course, reducing the koruna by fifty is a mockery to citizens. On the other hand, it fully shows what Petr Fiala's government is capable of, or better said, unable, because if this is the solution, it is indeed a mockery to all citizens of the Czech Republic, because it will not even feel such a solution. But now, from the tax point of view, I wanted to say something else about this. We've heard demagogy here, and I'd say lies, it's from the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura's mouth, that there's no way to lower the tax any more. So (a) here he should say to the fair that he was talking about excise duty, but the government can reduce VAT on fuel, and the combination of excise duty and VAT is up to 50 percent of the price of fuel, so he should not say about tax, as he said here, but he should say what tax he is talking about. On the other hand, it is said that this does not allow the European Union to be reduced, and at this moment I wanted to stop - as we see how the European Union is hurting, because when the Czech Republic needs to act in favour of Czech citizens, we need to ask the European Union whether it will graciously allow us to do so, and it will not allow it. This is a typical example of when we have lost sovereignty and we cannot act fully... Well, she PetrFiala even want to act on behalf of the citizens. But if there was a government that wanted to act for the benefit of the citizens, the European Union would not, in fact, allow, so that we cannot help the citizens. This is a crazy situation. And let me give you one more example about this. Of course, it is crucial to build our energy security. The changes should include deprivatisation of water and energy, including buyback not only water, but also gas pipeline. Until 12 years ago, the gas pipeline belonged to the state, and it had net earnings for gas flow and, of course, cheaper gas. I understand the efforts of some groups to cut themselves off from Russian gas and oil, but look at the US or the Němec, who, on the contrary, are buying Russian raw materials a lot, and at the same time, the US is looking forward to bringing us its overpriced shale gas. Russia will not lay down the fact that we will cut ourselves off from Russian gas, which is what the renowned economists say, since Russia already has concluded contracts for its withdrawal with India, China, Pakistan. So it will become the only one - it will make everything in the Czech Republic extremely expensive, because energy is a large part of the price of everything we look at, from steel to concrete to rolls. Of course, to someone who does not know geography, the listed three countries can come as few as possible in terms of the number of countries, but I would just add that they are the most populous countries in the world, with only one of them with more population than the whole of the European Union. So this is reality. At present, most households have increased their housing costs up to double, fuel by about 30 percent. In 2020, petrol prices - namely Natural 95 - ranged from CZK 25 to CZK 32 per litre. And at the moment? Somewhere it's double, about 50 kroner per liter. And we all know how it brazenly parasites the state of excise taxes and VAT on this dear, and Petr Fiala's government still has the nerve to put it on companies that have high margins. The fact that the government's right-wing parties, as their only solution, are trying to tell companies how big a margin is, is really absurd, because that's what the communists did last time. And once again, I'm stressing it as their only solution. Of course, as I said, the system-based, quick solution is to lower taxes on these expensive commodities, whether they're basic foods, whether they're energy or fuel. And these are exactly the proposals that the SPD has been proposing over the long term. It is happening in this way also in other countries of the European Union, but Petr Fiala's government simply does not want to help Czech citizens, it does not want to take any measures as they do in the advanced countries of the European Union, while offering no alternative fundamental solutions for citizens. I repeat what I said a few days ago: if Petr Fiala's government and Prime Minister Fiala don't have or can't solve the upheaval, as they do in the surrounding countries, he should resign. Because what good is a government that pays people if they can't help them in a crisis? It's no use to the government. This is a government that only helps itself, and that is precisely this unfortunately sad case. You want cheap gas? That's what I'm asking in terms of the solutions offered. So let us deprivatize the refinery and strengthen the share of state ownership of petrol stations, a model in European countries as well. It's not socialism or communism. This is a common model where state-owned companies or companies with state-owned shares own a network of petrol pumps. It is also in our country, but obviously it is not enough to put pressure on the price of fuel in the Czech Republic to influence the market. By the way, this is what non-European Mexico has done in the pumping industry, for example, and they have petrol for a third, and the profits go to education and health care. After all, not only Mexico, even Britain, laborers are asking for nationalization of energy, because it is indeed a strategic commodity that should be under public administration and control. Of course, no one's calling for a private earnings check. So you can see that this model, on the other hand, is for the strategic raw materials that the state should control in the SPD's opinion, so it's a model from Western, developed countries. Here, under the rule of ODS and ČSSD, which is no longer here in the House, it was stolen from the Czech Republic in various privatizations and so on. The Czech Republic has basically lost influence on strategic infrastructure, strategic commodities and so on. Not to mention, because of the European Union's destructive agricultural policy, we have lost food self-sufficiency in basic foods that can be produced in the Czech Republic, which is also one of the major problems that the SPD would like to remedy. In the last parliamentary term, we have tried to do so here, and our bill proposal, but it is the government's five-calice that has rejected this law. However, as always, it offers no alternative solution for Czech citizens to deal with expensive food. [[8.50 hours]] Another thing that needs to be dealt with is usury. The SPD's been calling in vain for years. The odds are a loan for extreme interest. In the Czech Republic, some companies provide small loans for up to 7,500 percent. Why am I talking about this? Because we are talking about expensive things, about what plagues Czech citizens in this broader context and prevents them from living full lives. Let me stress once again that some small loans here are granted for 7,500 percent increase in RPSN and thanks to a completely dysfunctional, toothless law on usury it is legal. We have already proposed a law here in the last parliamentary term to put the annual interest rate of the RPSN at a certain maximum level. By the way, this is even true in most European Union countries, the models vary. But the Czech Republic goes hand in hand to bailiffs and various loan sharks - they would like to say in quotation marks - the mafia and basically this problem is not addressed at all. So the SPD is the only side here that wants to help people not to fall into executions to wipe usury, because, of course, it's the first step towards people getting into debt traps afterwards. In Slovakia, the RPSN has been grounded and, of course, the loan firms have basically had to leave the market, so there is also a major improvement. But, as I said, this is true in most countries of the European Union. So that's another thing Petr Fiala's government isn't even going to deal with, and it's basically very weak from the point of view of performance. By the way, the state is already lending cheaply, or interest-free to companies, so the question is whether the government could do some sort of mechanism to expand it, extend these services to ordinary people who obviously have a clear working history, have a clear history, and in this way, of course, I would also say competitive services that would help people. Proposals that would make people's lives cheaper, because the topic of today's meeting is expensive, a solution to expensive, so those proposals that would make people's lives cheaper, we have dozens, and it would be worth sitting over - the government coalition and the opposition. Perhaps we could agree on some proposals. The problem is that the government coalition of Petr Fiala does not want to sit on any proposals, over any opposition proposals. I would understand this in a situation if she herself proposed some, but the government of Petr Fiala does not propose any proposals herself, I would say no major. Compared - and the best comparison is the view of other countries of the European Union that deal with the price increases, how they reduce VAT, taxes for the selected products, or even by ceilinging prices, but there are simply no proposals implemented in this sense. I just remind you that according to the figures of the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences 30 percent of people, it will be more than 30 percent of people, it gets into energy poverty, it gets into financial problems, it gets into huge financial problems, this share of people will rise and the government will just stand by. And the Prime Minister always says he doesn't have any signals. So I don't think it's really a good time to play toothless government policy here and reject positive opposition proposals. Anything that helps people is good, and it really will help the government, which would even do something good for people thanks to opposition. Of course, the peak of miserableness was the status on Twitter two days ago, Minister Válek, Minister of Health for TOP 09, who - at the same time in the evening read his apology that he could not participate, but at the same time tweeted, so he was full of energy - when he called the SPD a pro-Russian party apparently because we say that the government would instead of overpriced gas bought by smugglers from Germany, which costs Czech citizens three to five times - we buy three to five times more expensive gas - so instead of the government negotiating supplies directly from Austria, Hungary or Slovakia. So we're only interested in rubles. This is really - I would call it a desperation of the week, because let people pay in the Czech Republic three or five times overpriced gas due to the inability of government or because I would say ideological blackouts of government, while democratic neighbouring countries buy directly in this way, I really consider total despair and spit in the face of the citizens of the Czech Republic and their wallets. So these government rumors that the SPD is a pro-Russian party because it wants to buy gas directly from democratic countries and so on, so that's a really crazy thing to do, that's incredible. And to spit us out in that sense - the tweet was - that we criticized the fact that yesterday we took 14 billion crowns from insurance companies, making the availability of health care worse for citizens - the government would make access to health care worse for citizens. So no argument, just this dirty spit, so she's messed up pears with apples here, and it's a really horrible picture of the government. Instead of dealing with price increases, they attack those who propose solutions that are right and, secondly, they are already verified in neighbouring democratic countries. But the government just lets our citizens pay three to five times more expensive gas, even though citizens are already falling into financial poverty, into financial problems, it just doesn't matter to the government. Politically, we in opposition should probably rejoice in quotation marks that, thanks to the government's incompetence, the incompetence of Petr Fiala's government, the incompetence of the ODS coalition, where ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates, and their refusal to address the creeping increasing cost, you will sweep our way to electoral success. But we cannot rejoice because the whole country suffers from your incompetence and indifference, literally, people and the state. Here I would give an example of another completely - that is precisely how the mirror is set - how the European Union is hurting. When we look at one of the bills proposed at this House meeting, press 153, when it is proposed by the opposition to free households from part of the regulated price of electricity intended to promote renewable and other supported energy sources, is intended to help prevent energy prices from rising. And the government here says that the government's draft interferes with the area of public support, the regulation of which is contained in the law of the European Union. Or translated - the European Union forbids it, so another concrete example where the European Union harms and prevents Czech citizens from being helped. Of course, the government, even if the European Union had not refused, would not have agreed to it anyway, because Petr Fiala's government is antisocial. [[9.00 hours]] It's similar to the executions. When we proposed that the state abolish 21% of VAT for executions - because the SPD is the only party here that wants to help people in executions, our bill here lies to nationalize executors, so we are really the only ones here from all over the House, because the proposal has already been discussed here in the past term and everyone has basically been opposed to this, so the SPD is the only one here fighting for helping people in debt traps and for improving the situation around executions to help people - of course, debts are supposed to be paid, but the system must be proportionate. Here we see 21% of VAT, because today the state parasites 21% of VAT on executions, so it makes them even more expensive by one fifth, once again the European Union forbids VAT to be forgiven from the executions. So these are simply incredible examples where - and I don't want it to sound pejorative - foreigners from Brussels who don't live here with us or speak our language, so they tell us what to do here in the Czech Republic and whether we can or cannot help Czech citizens. I think that this is really one of the many reasons why I think it would be good to step out of the European Union and return it to the European Economic Community on the basis of the four fundamental freedoms, that is, the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services. That is what the SPD wants, of course, but everything else should already be adopted by national parliaments according to the outcome of the elections and according to the wishes of their own citizens without the dictation of Brussels. And this is a model that promotes the SPD, i.e. the closest possible cooperation between European states, no isolation, but without the dictation of Brussels. This means that the SPD is a pro-European party, we are in favour of European cooperation, but we are not a pro-EU party and, on the contrary, we consider the European Union to be an anti-European project. That's always a purpose here -- that's what Euro-Hungarians here put between those terms an equal, a pro-European and a pro-EU, but it's a contradiction. It's completely different. So otherwise it is a pity that there is no Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL, it is the Chairman of KDU-ČSL as well. I read a letter from Minister Jurečka to an old robbed grandmother because she writes - I've been in touch with her for several years and I'm trying to help her, but it's like when she throws games on the wall, when we write something to the government, so I read the answer from Mr. Jurečka to an old robbed grandmother, who begged him for help with a housing supplement that social services refused for nine years just because the hostel owner didn't give her a contract, and although Minister Jurečka could help her with extraordinary financial assistance, he bailed on her. And I want to ask Minister Jurečka: what did this old lady, who is 76 years old, do to you? Her only mistake is that she's not from Ukraine. She's an old woman who's worked hard all her life paying taxes. That's why the government doesn't have time for her and doesn't want to help her. The state of this lady, whose name I know of course, I have him here and I'm in contact with her, so in return, this lady let her steal the apartment illegally, and when she ended up in a hostel where she has to pay more than her old-age pension, she wouldn't even give her an extra hundred. I also know the case of a single parent who overpaid her ex-husband's debts by almost a million and still owes. These are today's practices around executions. And the most shameful part is that 21 percent of this loan was collected by the State in the form of VAT. How shameful and immoral! Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to make life cheaper for people on all levels. It does not go by one cut of the pen, it is indeed a whole range of measures that need to be done, and it can be done. And the SPD here for months - for months - proposes a specific solution. Again, I say we need to reduce taxes to expensive basic commodities, let it be fuel, basic foods, let it be energy. Some prices need to be ceilinged, even if it seems crazy to some people, but they are solutions that apply other countries in the European Union, because they need to be helped immediately, to help them immediately. And of course, the question is, and we already have an answer to it, if there is any good will in Petr Fiala's government to help Czech citizens, because, of course, we, who are here in the House and for half a year, see your activities, because you have a majority here for six months now, government MPs, so you lack the good will to help citizens completely. I asked the citizens the other day because I saw some government politician attorneys, some people wrote there, and I asked, "Did any of you feel any government help on your wallets? And no one came forward. So that's reality. This is the reality of the Czech Government! Literally nobody. No one applies because no one has noticed any government aid on their wallet, no positive activity on their wallets by the government of Petr Fiala. And that's really rusty. What a miserable situation! And on top of that, as I was saying, you pushed through the bill yesterday, taking 14 billion health insurance companies and making access to health care worse for our citizens. We protested here, SPD, we filed a motion to dismiss. We were trying to reconstruct, and you pushed us over, overvoted us. Any problems of health care citizens, any delayed performances, any long waiting time, any impaired care falls completely, the full responsibility of Petr Fiala's government, and it is of course necessary to stress this repeatedly. Otherwise, if you have the goodwill, you can show it immediately, there is no need to wait, as you stand up to the agenda and propose today's meeting, whether the majority of the government coalition - this agenda - approve it or reject it. Translated into Czech whether you approve or refuse to help people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And now, with priority rights, President Radim Fiala will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies gives room for alternative solutions to the energy crisis that we have reached. As has recently been the custom of the government's five-wheeler, it will not allow the programme to be approved in the event of opposition extraordinary meetings. If he surprises us out of the blue, we'll see, but it doesn't look like it yet. But if the government coalition moves as usual, only senior speakers will use their words on the subject. It is therefore important to look at the topics presented in this extraordinary meeting comprehensively and from more perspectives. We are here to deal with the amount of VAT on oil, electricity, natural gas, how to move it very fundamentally downwards in this next crisis year. And we are also to address the issue of renewable energy sources and emission allowances. Normally, it would be quite common uninteresting topics that only a group of experts and politicians are dealing with. With rapid increases in energy prices, which raise prices not only for transport, heating, production, but also for practically all products as well as for many services, most services, this is an extremely important topic. Without exaggeration, the problems in energy now affect every citizen of the Czech Republic, unfortunately mostly quite negatively. Energy prices are rising, inflation is skyrocketing, and our incomes and savings are being devalued in front of our eyes. We can't stay calm. These energy topics also have one other common feature - all closely linked to regulation by the European Union, i.e. in many possible solutions, either by common sense or by experts, we are limited by rigid and often senseless superior law of the European Union. [[9.10 hours]] Interestingly, the government's views on four draft laws are virtually exclusively based on the fact that this is not under European Union law or that it is necessary to notify the European Commission in advance in order to assess, notify or initiate proceedings. This clearly shows how far we have come with membership in the European Union. When there is a crisis, we can do virtually nothing, no independent decisions or procedures in favour of the Czech Republic and its citizens. I do not know how satisfied the citizens of the Czech Republic, who were in the squares in November and December 1989 and who were clinking keys with the vision of regime change to democratic and looking forward to freedom and greater freedom of decision-making, and by the way also to freedom of speech. Today we are in the European Union, so it is explained to us that we should keep our mouths and feet, making no bold decisions, because it would not be in accordance with the law of the European Union. This is communicated to us not by the European Union itself, but by our own, supposedly Czech Government Office. He became the guardian of the union, untouchable ideas through which the train doesn't run. But the European Union usually solves crises slowly, stupidly, lately, or not at all. We have seen this in dealing with economic crises. We have been waiting for a common Euro-EU solution, such as the Greek economic crisis, in the case of the video crisis, and now we see it even more clearly in the resolution of the energy crisis. The energy crisis will be followed by a food crisis, and I do not dare to even imagine what will happen or rather not happen. Here, the Union leaves it more or less to the Member States. As usual, she's not gonna come up with any great ideas. In Brussels and Strasbourg, we also pay a huge bureaucratic apparatus from our taxes, but it is of no use to us. The whole ideological emission allowance system was created in Brussels. The predecessor of an even crazier plan, which has the designation Green Deal or also the Czech Green Deal, which should have the economy of the countries of the European Union finally arrived. And perhaps it would also have been possible if there had not been another crisis, which is already a military nature, a war in Ukraine. She exposed the cards to those who had been hiding them with the motionless face of a poker player. Emission allowances were to improve the environment both in Europe and in the world by less polluting the environment. In reality, it is a new type of commodity with which it trades cheerfully, or rather, let's say it trades the financial market and makes undeserved profits of speculators. As a result, our citizens and other citizens of the European Union's Member States are rising sharply in prices, which must be paid mainly for energy. Czech citizens really do not deserve that. According to experts and experts, the fact that we are part of the emission allowance business system means an increase in energy prices in the Czech Republic by about 50 percent. I remember well that it all actually came from climateism, from different green areas, from having zero CO2 by 2050 or 2055 and so on and so on and other nonsense that doesn't really work on the environment or harm us economically. One of the main causes of the energy price crisis was that the European Union gradually reduced the number of emission allowances on the market. This logically increased their price and caused problems for energy users in the Member States of the European Union. No other state in the world or group, other than the EU, has yet established such a senseless system to increase energy prices so that speculators can make money on it and, as a result, it has been paid by ordinary citizens and companies who have no way of defending themselves against it. I don't know, but I'm afraid when I think of supported sources of energy, solar resources and everything that's been going on, how much it's costing us, who's getting all the money, I'm afraid that the emission allowance system is just another tunnel for a few chosen groups, groups of people, and of course we're all supposed to pay for it. And how does the European Union address the energy crisis? Has it increased the number of emission allowances? No. She forgave businesses for using them, which make profits, but spends all their profits on having to buy emission allowances so that they can smoke from the chimney through the latest filters? Not either. He plays the dead bug as always, when there is a crisis in Europe, i.e. the situation must be addressed virtually exclusively by the initiatives of individual Member States. But the funds flow happily into the pockets of speculators, various pension funds and others, and we pay it at the price of energy. That's a great business, but not for us, for some of the chosen. How did Spain and Portugal do that at this March European Union summit on the energy crisis? They negotiated exactly what we would also need: a ceiling on the prices of natural gas used for electricity production, an energy of EUR 50 per megawatt hour, for 12 months. Although this was not included in the scope of the summit, the European Union has officially authorised them to do so in the coming days. As the media subsequently said, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez, who, according to diplomats, threatened to block footage in the event of rejection of the demands for stronger joint action, appreciated the summit agreement. According to him, the negotiated exemption will enable the Iberian peninsula countries to reduce unbearably high energy prices while not endangering the functioning of the single Union market. So it goes for someone, and it doesn't work for someone else. If I translate it, the Španěl have negotiated an exception, they will pay the speculators only a little bit, and the rest will be paid by the countries of Central and Eastern Europe that are part of the European Union. This is how I imagine a self-confident policy at European Union level - to know what I want to achieve for Czech citizens, to stand firm and to get a similarly capable ally. But so far, the ODS government, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates can't do that. And I look forward to the Presidency of the European Union, where this government will chair. He has a unique opportunity to negotiate something. I don't think he's gonna negotiate anything, and after the Presidency, I'm gonna stand here and ask that question. But, as you can see, it can be dealt with when it is desired and until unanimity is applied in the vote at the European Council. When a qualified majority is introduced there, which the European Commission is trying to do, as the pirát would like, and as the conference on the future of Europe will soon recommend, it will traditionally be about us without us. After that, we will just sit there and the big states will vote on their own behalf and they will not look back on what the small ones or smaller ones like the Czech Republic are. Let us therefore push our interests strongly and in time in the European Union. When it does not work, it will make more sense for the European Union to step out and leave. But let us now take a very specific look at what other European states are able to do for their citizens. The five-calice government, compared to active European states that are interested in the well-being of their citizens, is failing horribly. You can see in complete nakedness who cares about their citizens and who only cares about their own fat prebends. Energy prices in Europe, because of all the possible state interference and European Union interventions presented often as a fight for the environment for the so-called carbon-free economy, have reached heights even a few years ago unimaginable. Alternative sources are few, state interference and regulation due to controlled retreat from fossil fuels. Yes, fossil fuels, or coal, may be one of the few things that can save us in the future from having to do at home what the pirát or some others wanted us to do, which means we'll buy two thick sweaters in winter and pull the heater down to 18 degrees so that we can pay for it at all. [[9.20 hours]] The demand for electricity is rising. This experiment could not have ended in any other way than high energy prices and their de facto shortage, especially at times when so-called renewable resources were not available. If we include Euro-EU taxonomy, curry and clean energy types, and even expensive loans for energy investment, plus a tragic and speculative system of emission allowances, the result cannot be other than extremely expensive energy with all the conceivable negative impacts on citizens and businesses, on the standard of living and the macroeconomic situation of European states. Everything depends on energy. Industry, economy, agriculture, production, services, everything. As politicians, we are obliged to minimize or eliminate these negative impacts and to help citizens. The reduction in both energy and gas VAT is the first, not the only, but the necessary step on this path. The main and also necessary and necessary is the withdrawal from the crazy Green Deal EU plan, which, by the way, is one of the main sources of current inflation. And unfortunately, it could be worse. It is not only a war conflict in Ukraine, but energy prices began to rise before it, and it was because on the basis of Green Deal some states like Germany, Sweden started closing not only fossil fuel power plants, but also nuclear power plants, which resulted in a lack of energy and started to rapidly, exponentially increase its price. Also because in our country, the situation is one of the worst in Europe, because because of the completely distorted European energy market, our citizens and companies pay extremely high prices for energy in multiples of prices for which electricity is produced in our home. Expensive electricity, as well as expensive fuel, which is also meant to be the subject of this meeting, is secondarily expensive for all other goods and services in the economy. This means, both legal and natural persons, that is, companies and citizens, costs are rising and demand inflation that has been here is changing from natural development to cost and, in my opinion, unfortunately, it will still rise precisely because the government is not doing anything about it. The governments of most European countries understand this and they are already taking appropriate steps, but the Czech government is not. The situation gets worse every day. In order to relieve their citizens of rising prices, many European governments have taken measures to reduce value added tax for selected commodities, especially for energy, fuel and food. It is Croatia at random, which reduced VAT on energy from 25 per cent to 13 per cent, for gas from 25 per cent even to 5 per cent. The VAT on energy was also reduced by Belgium, from 21 percent to 6. In addition, the government helped its citizens with a total contribution of CZK 2,500. Spain has hit VAT on energy from 21 to 10 percent. At the same time, it also extended the validity of a law which prohibits energy companies from cutting off non-paying clients in need, thus prohibiting them from ending their energy supply. Austria took a similar route, which will support all citizens with an amount of 300 euros, i.e. about CZK 7,300. The value added tax on energy was also reduced by Denmark, Poland, Hungary and Italy. In addition to electricity and gas, VAT rates on petrol or foodstuffs have also fallen. Energy prices froze Slovakia and Bulgaria again. Slovakia for even three years. The French Government intervened hard against the crisis. France has set the maximum energy price to 4 per cent and has forced EDF's state energy company to supply electricity to its competitors cheaply. It also regulated gasoline prices, which would otherwise have increased by 45 percent. After government intervention, they only increased by 12%. Last year, the Hungarian Government decided to set a temporary ceiling on fuel prices. For a period of three months, the price of petrol, diesel cannot exceed 480 forints, which is approximately 33 crowns. That's what we're talking about. If you refuel for 33 kroner, you'll all realize that some government helped you. Our government has reduced our prices by a crown of fifty. How much of this will appear on our wallet on that liter, I daren't guess. Maybe fifty penny, maybe a crown, maybe a crown of fifty somewhere. But if I asked you if you were tanking for 42 or 43 yesterday, no one would remember. This means, unfortunately, you will have to go to Hungary or Poland to refuel for 33 crowns. Prime Minister Orbán has already indicated that the fixed ceiling for fuel prices will be extended, and it has happened recently. Orbán also introduced limits on energy prices and mortgage rates so that people would not increase their housing costs, so that they could keep it at all, so that they could have a place to live. Our government, I remind you, is doing nothing. During its first term of office, the Orbánův government has already reduced domestic electricity and gas prices between 2010 and 2014. The SPD movement also suggested it by law, of course it didn't pass. The law may still be in the House somewhere in the archives. Later, several distribution companies became nationalised by Hungary and reduced prices for households have remained valid since then. Now, I'm gonna have to apologize for the rest of the speech and give the floor to another speaker. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, Mr President, for the speech. Anyone else checking in with priority rights? Yes, President Andrej Babiš. And before I give him my word, I'll read the apologies. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan apologizes from 8.30 to 11 o'clock for reasons of work, also Minister Jana Černochová from the whole day of the meeting, for reasons of work, Jaroslav Faltýnek for family reasons throughout the day, further apologizes Mr Rudolf Salvetr for reasons of work and Mr Stanislav Blaha also from working days, both throughout today's meeting day. And then we have another announcement, Mr. Education Minister Petr Gazdík cancels his note from today. Then we should apologize, and I am now giving the floor to President Babiš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u12	So hello. Madam President, colleagues, I do not have a coherent speech, but I will try to explain to some people who are discussing energy security and how everything is supposed to work, how it really is. We have called this meeting to repeat to this government how it should tackle the energy crisis and expensive energy, and this solution is simple. This government is unable to supply the people or the compensation they are proposing. [[9.30 hours]] The first attempt was when Mr. Jurečka proposed that ridiculous housing supplement to compensate some households for the price of electricity, gas and heat. Bureaucracy, forms. And this, of course, was reflected in the fact that interest is small, a little over 40,000 requested. And now, based on our pressure, there's been another signal in the form of the 5,000. It's incredible how this five-calice works. They're not even able to tell at a press conference whether it's rude or clean, they don't know how they want to give this money to people at all. Pirates say it's energy compensation, someone else says it's actually for kids when they go back to school in September, which is why it's supposed to be August. Mr. Jurečka doesn't know if it's going to be distributed by the employment office or who. So the total inability to tell people, if that government really wants to implement the 5,000, that is, of course, the minimum amount of how it's going to be evaluated, how people are actually going to defend their income. We suggested, it's very simple, we suggested that people see the help of the state on invoices for electricity, gas and heat. We did this last year, in November and December we reduced VAT from 21 percent to zero on the proposal of the former Minister of Finance. Therefore, the rise in inflation from October to November was only 0.2 % and was negative inflation because it stopped inflation. That is why the inflation in December, when we left the government, was only 5.3 percent and we were fourteen in the European Union, fourteen. So we don't demagogically say it's Fialův's price, as the Prime Minister said it's Babišův's price. But now that he's in government, he says it's Putinův's expensive. No, we're saying that it's global inflation, which was created, of course, also because Putin attacked Ukraine, but also because of Green Deal, because of the crazy fantasies of this crazy Timmermans, that we're going to save the planet, that we're not going to destroy ourselves, that we're not going to be cars with internal combustion engines, that we're going to ride bikes, we're going back to the caves, and we're essentially going to save the planet. The fact that this is completely stupid, because, in fact, the issue of Europe is only 8 percent, and everyone else in the world doesn't keep it, so it's clear to everyone. So, after the emergence of a new government that does everything against what we did on principle, just because, even if these are things that would solve the situation of citizens and companies, they don't want to do it. And we came up with concrete proposals, which means, we said that we would cancel the renewables charge - that is the legacy of the solar tunnel, 600 billion, respectable citizens, we paid for this solar tunnel thanks mainly to Mr Topolánek, who committed an outrageous solar charge and 600 billion. Of course, a lot of people got rich, those godfathers, different friends of the current government. And we said to pay people to see it on the invoice -- zero. Of course, it is 19 billion a year, and this will help not only citizens but also employers, because reducing VAT will not help employers. The reduction in VAT is for citizens, and it would help them fundamentally. Even if we went to extremes, and I think it would be necessary, within renewable sources, the state and the government are able to subsidize it, so not that it's a zero, it would still be a minus. Minus! So they might as well have contributed even more to it after they forgave the fee. It's possible, of course, the resources are there, and that's the Modernization Fund. We fought against Green Deal, Poland and the Czech Republic, together and achieved that we had no commitment. The Czech Republic does not have a commitment to reducing emissions. The commitment is - the average of the European Union - 55 percent, I was talking about it here, so the Czech Republic, if it's 40 percent and Denmark, because it's all fans at sea, it's 70 percent, so it's 110, divided by two is 55, the average. And that's what we fought for, so when the Green Deal campaign was going on, we threw it out a hundred times, but, of course, those campaigns are very well organized by the coalition and the pro-government media, but that's what I'm gonna get to. There's a gas campaign going on. And what we did was the Modernization Fund. Poland is the most industrialized country in the European Union and we are others. Poland gets the most money out of this fund, and we have the second largest income - 14 percent of it. It's only 62 billion this year, and it's going to be up to 1,000 billion. Up to 1,000 billion! And instead of using that money to compensate people and employers, the government is improving its budget. And Mr Stanjura is still saying that he doesn't have money, of course, that's not true, because inflation has huge income, additional tax revenues, and only four months this year has plus 47 billion extra - year-on-year plus. So our proposed solution was that people aren't going anywhere, they're not showing any revenue, they're showing nothing, they get an invoice that they can pay electronically, and they see how the state helped them on that invoice. That's what we'd do on the invoice. They pay electronically, they don't have to do anything, and this government doesn't want that. This government is always saying that it doesn't want to go across the board, then it's going to propose that the 5,000 are related to 90 percent of all families, so it's already across the board. So they're actually contradicting each other, and they're clueless. They're not able to deliver the money to people. They're not, because they didn't really help anything. And, of course, this government is - perhaps in the history of our country, it wasn't even the one who lied so much. Supposedly in politics, he's lying, I've learned it's normal, but as brutally as this government is lying, no one here is lying. And I got out here and I said what the government was lying about: Debt - we have the sixth best finances, it's black and white, it's Eurostat, yes. The trend - we explained that Mrs Schillerová paid forward - nor the trend is true that we are the worst. And then there's the inflation, and I'm going to repeat it again because it's unbelievable, but what's incredible is that the five-calice-- they have the central PR-- they keep repeating just the same lies. That's what Mrs. Richterová here always reads from her cell phone because she doesn't understand it, but they all say it over and over again. So the inflation - the third highest in Europe, 13 percent, yes. So what the government says-- that we caused inflation because we gave people money. The Fialův government didn't give money, which is why we have even higher inflation, so of course it doesn't make any sense. So we're in a situation where the government's always fogging, always saying what we've done, what we should have done, what we haven't done, and I've already talked about it here, it's unbelievable. It's incredible how they can brutally and over and over again lie about our work - Dukovany, taxonomy, emission allowances. [[9.40 hours]] The Prime Minister criticized me in the debate that I didn't do anything, but it's not true, I wrote letters, I acted, and now imagine what happened. A few weeks ago, when ODS MP Vondra, who, of course, opposes Green Deal and emission allowances and I am rooting for him, encouraged the initiative to withdraw the European Commission from the market, actually to cancel the withdrawal of emission allowances that go into the market reserve, because, of course, this affects the market and thus has a negative impact on the price of electricity. Well, imagine the Prime Minister was against it. So the Prime Minister says: Babiš didn't do anything about emission allowances - he didn't say the word until a visit to Poland - and here was the chance to influence it, that is to dissolve the market reserve that negatively affects the price. And the Prime Minister for the Government of the Czech Republic was against it. He was also against Vondra, against his own MP. So I don't understand it, or I understand it, that here the government is still trying to brainwash citizens with the contribution of pro-government media and repeat the lies over and over again. Why is that? Because today, this government is dominated by an agency that once served Bakal as part of the privatizations of OKD, which he then tripped out. And in the game is the famous Prague attorney, who was Mr. Bakala's puppet and was Mr. Sobotka's puppet Sobotka. So these guys are back. These guys who worked for the Chovens, for Sobotka, they're back. Two of them are at the Office of the Government and they've taken over the Ministry of Industry, so five-calice has a problem because he already has a sixth partner. Síkela is out of control, so there are five of you, and you still have Pokorný and Síkela, that's the sixth party, and the Ministry of Industry is running Evička Hanáková. And who are these people? These are all the people from the failed project Touch, that was Mr. Radek Pokorný's project, that's the Bakala puppet and Sobotka puppeteer. And he's back. And where did Mr. Síkela come from? I always wondered how he got there. Why is he there? Well, Mr. Síkela is Mr. Michalik's product. Mr Síkela worked at Creditanstalt and Mr Kratina, former director of Hypovereinsbank and the best director of the Czech Post, fired him because he knew who he was. So this is how it happened that we have a Minister of Industry who is totally incompetent, doesn't talk to people, fires all the Deputys, Mrs. Tauberová, Jirotková, hasn't even met the head of CzechInvest. So here we have the situation and the whole government, this team is working and giving them the background. It's incredible that everyone in the government is always talking the same way. And after all these different campaigns, because Bison & Rose does it well, now we have a new campaign. And what does the campaign say? That actually Babiš - Babiš! - he did it because we don't have, that we're addicted to Russian gas. Well, incredibly stupid. I was followed by reporters, two ladies, without notice of course, and they came up with a clear message that I should have arranged for Rusko after the occupation of Crimea not to buy Russian gas. Yes, you can hear perfectly, absolutely stupid. When did Russia take over Crimea? It was from February 23rd - it started - 2014! [[In an elevated voice.]] I became Minister of Finance in January 2014 and in February 2014 I was amazed to meet the Ministry of Finance, I met... The reporter, there's the reporter. What's a reporter? That's the paper where x officials sign and then something happens. It's not like in private that you write something on a letter, some kind of instruction. So I was supposed to have these people, and of course there's a clear story on Monday where this show is run by Mr. Wollner, and I'm not gonna say what I think of him, he's gonna tell people that after the cast of Crimea, Babiš was supposed to be dealing with Russian gas. Unbelievable stupidity. By the way, these pro-government shows that won a five-calice election-- reporters, for example-- here's an analysis. From 2017 to 2022 out of 115 parts covered 38 reports by Agrofert and 24 reports about Babiš. And who does that, of course, all negative? Mrs. Neumannová. That's all on order. There was also Mrs. Dobiášová supposedly, which is some unconfirmed information, she left because she wanted to make a story about a party, but they wouldn't let that happen. So these are the reporters who are making an order - and I've always said corruption isn't just giving money, but corruption is opinional, so I read it on Wikipedia. So these reporters on Monday will tell people that after the cast of Crimea, Babiš should have arranged not to buy Russian gas, incredibly stupid. Unbelievable stupidity. And of course, there's no talking about the truth here. Well, what's the truth? What's the truth? The Prime Minister is still talking about what the government wants and doesn't want, and it would be good if the Prime Minister got his bearings. And it's not his fault. We don't have anything anymore. What does the Czech state have? When we were in government from January 2014 until December 17, 2021, we never privatized anything, never. I prevented privatization of CHPRO - this is a treasure, this is a diamond - and they wanted to privatize it too, CHPRO. And I think neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Industry knows what they have in mind. And I'll try to explain it here. The Prime Minister keeps talking about him shopping for something. There's a big debate about oil, and what do we have left after a new privatisation? Who ruled here until 2002? Two sides - ODS and ČSSD, they sold everything. They sold everything! So the Czech state today has nothing but CEPRO. Who owns the refinery, Prime Minister? Well, PKN, Orlen Unipetrol. PKN ORLEN is a Polish state company, so you don't decide what oil Unipetrol buys, that's what the Polák decide, Polák. Morawiecki decides that. [[9.50 hours]] And the gas was Transgas. It was sold by ČSSD RWE, a German company, and RWE sold it. They kept the clips. Big pipes sold NET4GAS, it's a global pension fund company. And small pipes were sold, respectively, by their company Innogy, and owned by Hungarian state company - 40 percent of gas distribution in Bohemia is controlled by Hungarian state company. And if you want to translate it, yes, my friend Viktor Orbán controls it. And now we're going back to V4. Now you finally understand how important the V4 is. We don't have anything anymore. You sold everything, ODS. And that's not the Prime Minister's fault. The Prime Minister came to rescue the ODS later. You destroyed all the banks that ČSSD sold below price. It's all gone. The coal sold for a mouthful. OKD - Bakala pulled 130 billion there. He wasn't ashamed not to give the apartments to people when he promised. You sold everything, it's all gone. Cementry. They destroyed sugar plants thanks to the European Union. It's all gone. So I don't really know what we're talking about here. And I'd like to give you a hint as to how you should handle this. In Central Europe, V4 - Poland has a state company to buy gas and distribute gas. Yes, they decide. Poland has a state fuel company. He's got a refinery. Poland has it. Slovakia also doesn't have refineries because Slovnaft was bought by Maďar. Slovnaft owns MOL. MOL is a Hungarian state company. And now maybe a surprise for the members of the government - CHPRO has a pipe, a product line to Bratislava, to the refinery. That's our advantage now, that if it were the worst, we'd have this connection. And there the state can play a role. So we have nothing. Austria also has a state company - refineries, gas. Everyone has, and we have nothing. The government is still talking and accusing us of neglecting something. Of course, pro-government media lies from morning to night when they say we should have built some LNG pipeline from Poland, which, of course, is a false thing, because the Polák simply didn't want it. We didn't! So it's a classic. As the five coalitions in opposition kept accusing us of all kinds of nonsense - the effects of the pandemic, inflation - now accuses us of building something. And who was supposed to build it? Then explain it to me. After all, an investor from the Czech side is a private company NET4GAS. And the Polák didn't want it. We took care of the money. So what we're in is just a consequence that ODS and ČSSD sold cheaply almost everything that wasn't nailed to the ground, including banks. You allowed foreigners to buy land, Maďar and Polák wouldn't let it, and you let it. So these are all the consequences of what we experienced here under the ODS and the CSSD, the legacy. That is why 250 to 280 billion CZK dividends go abroad every year. You destroyed all the banks first, and then you sold them for a mouthful. Even the Czech Export Bank, the only state bank, you destroyed by tunning various contracts between your friends. You destroyed that, too, so we have nothing left. Please don't say what we're responsible for, because it's not true. Nothing has been sold since I joined the government. I saved the ČSA, I saved the OKD, we fixed the Thermal. That's also a privatization of à la ODS. Someone bought it, then didn't pay it, and the state couldn't get to it for 23 years. Unbelievable! That's also... Why did you even have that? Why does the state have a hotel? So that's your inheritance. And you definitely walled it up, definitely. Even the ČEZ was in the coupon. There are minority shareholders. And you think the minority shareholders want to invest in Dukovan? They don't want to. They don't want to go into the core. They don't want to! And I guess you can't act like they're not there, can you? And today, of course, ČEZ makes extra money. Let's see when the year ends, who made the most. Let's see how much the banks made thanks to Mr. Governor, who is still going through his mantra and raising interest so that young people here can't buy an apartment at all, so that all mortgages that aren't fixed are at 6 percent. So let's see what the profits are at the end of the year and where the money went. Blaming us for not doing something at a time when liquefied gas cost three times more than normal gas - yes, now the situation has changed, that's the legacy. That's why most of the economy actually belongs to foreigners, that's the ODS government bill. And that's not Petr Fiala's fault. Petr Fiala came later because the party collected a bill from the people for it. And we became mere observers in our own home. We're what? What do you want to decide? But what you have, and you are not able to understand how to deal with it, ČEZ and it ČEPRO. There's always oil, oil, oil. Yes, of course, the European Union says we should have some oil supply. And if there's a problem, what good is that oil if we don't have refineries? And the refineries make their own decisions. We will not dictate to them what kind of oil, so the Polish government will decide, Morawiecki, not Mr. Fiala. Mr. Fiala won't decide. We did! I'm being accused again by some editor here that we didn't buy oil. Yes, I strongly opposed the purchase of oil for the refinery in Kralupy, which processes sweet oil from Azerbaijan. It's a monopoly van. And those guys who were waiting for some money for Azerbaijani sweet oil again, so I stopped them because we don't need that kind of oil. Why would we put her in storage? Why? Nonsense! It's clear that if anything happens, then we don't need to... What do we need? We need kerosene for fighters, we need diesel and gasoline for the army. Before someone supplied the oil somewhere and refined it, and there are factions falling out of it, it's pure nonsense, it's nonsense. The new campaign is now underway, which is about not showing, of course, how this government is not able to do anything for people, it is not able, so now it is going that after the occupation of Crimea in February 2014 Babiš, who was the new finance minister and did not even hit the door properly at the Ministry of Finance, should have arranged for the European Union not to buy Russian gas. Well, incredibly stupid. Unbelievable nonsense! [[10.00 hours]] The talk about Europe buying something together is nonsense. Yes, there is solidarity, but when there is a problem, everyone digs for themselves. You can see that - some countries accept payments in rubles, some do not accept, they keep changing, and our government keeps talking about it - and we have almost nothing left. If you want to have it again, then reprivatize it. Give an offer to ČEZ shareholders - Musk Elon made an offer on Twitter, everyone sold it to him, $44 billion, a nice package. So make an offer to ČEZ shareholders and buy ČEZ back. Then you'll decide something. You're in there tonight. I wasn't even let go of Čez's supervisory board as Minister of Finance. That's it, that's it. And those gas tanks and gas pipelines and distribution, if you want to buy it, please. It sold for 132 billion, how much will you buy now? I don't know, for 1,000? Prime Minister Fiala should finally get his bearings. Who controls gas stations in the Czech Republic? I forgot about that. Polák and Maďar again! So Polák has a refinery, he has a gas station, Maďar has 40 percent gas distribution, and he has a gas station. The state has CHPRO. ČEPRO has 200 filling stations, but it has storage tanks for the pipelines. So you're gonna have to learn it already. Go to the refineries. You don't even know where they are, you don't even have basic knowledge. It is also the case in Slovakia - the refinery has Maďar and the Slovak state has electricity. They've got it everywhere, it's just that we don't have it, because you sold it all out, and now you're just doing the fog, and you're saying we should have bought something. I clearly told you what to do in the state's material reserves, and you didn't do what you were supposed to do. You should have told the distributors: Buy gas - that's the German model. It's true, yesterday Minister Stanjura said that I actually asked them first to buy state material reserves, but then I changed my mind and I thought it was stupid why the state should block cash flow 8.5 billion when it can tell distributors to tell them: buy it, and if you sell it and you have a big price difference there, we'll cover it for you. Germany did that. That's what I said, and Mr. Stanjura could have saved himself 8.5 billion cash flow. Yesterday we asked him where he got the money when he kept saying he didn't even have it for seniors and young people, there are some students... Why did he take their discount from 1. Four? 1.8 billion? 0.1% of the cost of the state! That's funny, isn't it? And he's going to put $8.5 billion in gas here. I wonder who they'll sell the gas to and under what conditions. They're out of their minds. What do they say to the CEZ? Yeah, you have a contract with Gazprom. Okay, that ends at the end of the year. Then tell him! The damage will be 1.5 billion. Who's gonna pay for this? Let them put it on paper, make it happen at the general meeting. So I'm curious about Šnobr telling them how he's gonna drive them. It's absurd, amateurism of the greatest quality. So please, thanks to privatization and thanks to the ODS and ČSSD government, almost everything sold out by 2002, so don't play that you have something. You have CEPRO thanks to me, if I didn't object, it's gone, and you have 60 percent of ČEZ. Then at least take the dividend when you're no longer able to enforce anything there. So I'm fascinated by the way that there's still talk in this space, and of course it's all our fault, which, of course, is nonsense. So on Monday, the Czech Television reporters will lie again and say that Babiš, who came to the Ministry of Finance on 29 January 2014, had less than a month later, based on the occupation of Crimea, run as Finance Minister for Merkelová, and I don't know who else was there - Olaf - and say to him: Look, it's on Crimea, we stop the gas, don't build that Nord Stream - it's stupid! After all, all European politicians were happy when Nord Stream began to build! And the absurdity of what is happening here in the media space is that the biggest lobbyist for Russian gas, the most corrupt prime minister in this country's history, Mr. Mirek Topolánek, on 13 May 2014, said - dealt with the Ukrainian-Russian crisis - that we must build South Stream. So he was Nord Stream, there was a crisis, Russia didn't want to deliver through Ukraine, and he said, let's build South Stream. So clear lobbying for Russian gas, May 13th. What do the media say about this guy who's on TV sitting at Eurostream? What is Eurostream? This is a company that transports Russian gas through Slovakia, so he lobbies for Russian gas - performing on television and saying nonsense that we should have built a LNG pipeline and that it was some kind of project. The Polák didn't want it. So it's unbelievable - I feel like I'm in a madhouse, that somebody's accusing us of something we can't do at all, and they're still brutally lying about it. Because if, of course, someone was interested in the Czech Republic not being connected to other pipelines, it was Eurostream, because of course the more gas flows from Russia, from Ukraine through Slovakia to Bohemia, the higher the charges, logically. So I don't know, it's enough to study it. It is, of course, the media that won the election here, headed by the Czech Television, and the shows that I remembered here, and on Monday it will be again - I recorded the interview, fifty minutes, that's incredible. These ladies were clear: Babiš was supposed to make sure that Russian gas was not purchased after the cast of Crimea. There's no such thing as stupidity. Everyone will understand that it's total nonsense. So this government has not understood at all that the legacy of previous governments is an absolute disaster for us. Yes, disaster. We have nothing left. Everything is in the hands of foreign investors. And if there's any strategy to reprivatize it, we'll support it. Let's buy it back, let's get somebody to do the math, and let somebody tell us how much it's gonna cost. That'd be nice! So it would be good to say, and the Prime Minister is not here to actually understand where he has influence. He's not directly influential. Now there will be a great battle for who will sit on ČEZ's Supervisory Board. I've been there, always hell. Our coalition, I was sitting there, but they're sitting there because there's a great income. So there will be a general meeting of ČEZ. I hope that the state will take a proper dividend, because ČEZ will have double the profit, and they can take it. [[10.10 hours]] So, Prime Minister, you have CEZ, but only 60 per cent, you have CECPRO - ducts, and that's it. You don't have anything, so I don't know what they're talking about all the time. Morawiecki will decide on oil in the Czech Republic, which belongs to the Czech refinery, not you. What will be sold on MOL and Benzina pumps owned by Polák will be decided by someone completely different, so this inheritance is an absolute disaster for us, and now it's obvious. It's obvious now that we've gotten into a situation that... Those headlines, that's incredible. Here's Law today: the government wants to take Russian oil for at least two more years. Which Czech government? It doesn't make any decisions. What's he talking about? Unipetrol decides, Polák owns it. Who's going to be nominated for PKN Orlen? Who decides? Well, Morawiecki decides, or Kaczyński! they don't decide anything. [[Czechs]] And the gas? Then let the Prime Minister ask Viktor Orbán how he's doing, 40 percent of the gas here is sold by Maďar. Yes, originally it was Transgas that sold the CSSD, yes, this isn't the ODS. At the time, it was a great price after the minimum prices that ODS showed privatization here. It's all gone. So that's the legacy you don't want to hear about, and you're here playing something that you can influence. You can't control anything! Just the color of the shirt and tie in the morning. And where you can influence anything, the emission allowances for which the Prime Minister criticized me, he didn't do it now. And Mr Vondra, who has lied in the past about signing Green Deal, which is not true, on the contrary, we have won the two positions I was talking about, so here he says that there was a chance that the European Commission would not withdraw those allowances from the market so that the price would not go up, and that the Prime Minister could intervene, and he did not. So that's the balance sheet. The Czech Republic wants to postpone sanctions on oil imports from Russia until it supports them. Fine. So I'm just saying, unfortunately, we're in a situation where we sold everything out. Yes, here's an article by some anti-Babish media today that mostly Andrej Babiš threw us into Russia's addiction. I don't know how he could have thrown it, that's total bullshit. [[He's laughing.]] The worst part is, these people don't understand at all. Mrs Richterová reads everything from her cell phone. There's an expert writing to her. So, again, learn it. Gas in the gas pipeline - no one knows where it came from in the Czech Republic. It's a mixture of Norwegian gas, Qatari gas, LNG gas, Russian gas. Russian gas! That's bullshit. That our government was supposed to extend some kind of contract. It's incredible how the media is lying and demagogizing. In 1997, when the State still owned Transgas, it signed a contract with Norway, which expired in 2017, yes? Twenty years later. And now those pro-government journalists are lying that we should have extended it. What if Transgas didn't belong to us anymore? Are you crazy or what's wrong with you? One more time! Even a small child can understand that. 1997 - Transgas signed a contract with Norway for 20 years and 2002 - Transgas was privatised. So we don't have any more, no one has any influence, so what are they talking about? That's another lie! So now there's a campaign going on, Bison & Rose, you're good at it, yes, and the whole government gets the notes still saying, "Babiš didn't build a gas pipeline from Poland." Bullshit, lie! The Pole didn't want it. And the government wants to build something? And for what money? You don't even have the gear! You don't understand! Next thing. Babiš didn't extend the Norwegian gas contract. How? I mean, the contract was in Transgas, it was privatized. I was supposed to go to RWE and say, "Extend Norwegian gas"? So you'd say I'm crazy because everyone here is talking about something they don't understand at all. So that's one lie, another lie - addiction. Here the gas is distributed by distributors, so let the Prime Minister ask Orbán and Innoga, I repeat, Innogy, at that time the Hungarian company sells 40 percent of the entire gas to Czech citizens. Then ask how it is! And anyone who understands this will explain that gas is not purchased by origin. All gases are the same, unlike oil, where there is a difference between the Litvínov refinery, which is connected to the Družba pipeline and the IKL Ingolstadt pipeline, which buys Russian oil, and Kralupy, where the refinery, which buys sweet oil from Azerbaijan, is. But now they're out because the oil in the Black Sea wouldn't even sail because it's gonna be shot down. I don't know who. There's a fight, there's a war. So learn it already! And if someone wanted sweet oil from Azerbaijan, and it's a monopoly van, that's great, because you don't have any competition there, you don't check the price. So somebody had a smé and I know who. I'm not gonna say it. I don't have proof. I've had enough of these trials. I'm fine. So the guys wanted sweet oil, the deal, and Babiš stopped them because Babiš understands business, their business. That's why I went into politics because I was sick of it when politicians came to businessmen and said, "Give me the money." Why? Because I want money. That's why they were there. So, sweet oil... [[A note from Mr. Žáček.]] I didn't give them to anyone, Mr. Colleague, and don't yell at me. So sweet oil comes from one source, and whoever wants it wants a monopoly deal, which is why I've always been against it. So maybe even the press understand what I'm saying here. So here's the campaign, and it's pretty clear how it all works. This means that the government keeps repeating the lies, yes - debt, inflation, Green Deal, gas pipeline Poland, construction law, biocomponent. Another lie. By canceling the bio-component, you support Putinův's regime, and let somebody deny it to me. Even a little kid will understand, and here are the students, they'll understand that if there's 6 percent of rape in a liter of diesel, then if the rape isn't there, the rape oil, it'll replace what, students? Oil again! Who's oil? Putinův oil! That's why the Fialův government supports Putinův's regime and gives him 14 billion extra! [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011 movement.]] She's a three-man, isn't she? Common sense, I hope you're using common sense, right? Everyone's gonna find out! So that's it, and that's the lies. And then they're -- so everything's privatized, everything's gone -- and then they're -- they're selling our jobs -- Dukovany, taxonomy, emission allowances. The Prime Minister should explain why he did not support it, he went against his own MP Vondra. Why did he go against him? Why didn't he support why he didn't enforce the MiFID directive, which allows speculation on emission allowances, why didn't it get cancelled, why didn't it get caught up? I really don't understand. So the sum of the sum is that this government is unable to help citizens. I'm not saying that inflation is Fialův's price, as the Prime Minister said. I say it can't be influenced, but you just have more revenue to do it. And I understand that Minister Stanjura is looking forward to the tens of billions that are being paid by our citizens. That's the inflation. And he, the government, should share with people, should return the money to them when 24 Member States in the European Union do it. [[10.20 hours]] And we've told you a hundred times what to do. Have you reduced the excise tax on the crown of fifty -- well, nothing to show it? It didn't show up at anything. Road tax for the chosen few? You should have done something for people. And in August? The 5,000, if Jurečka doesn't even know how it's going to be, out of the rough, clean, she doesn't know who's going to assign it, who's going to evaluate it. Do it across the board, they all did it. Do it so that you can help people without going anywhere, so that someone can test them for their income, so that they don't fill out the forms. That's what we wanted to tell you. And I understand that your incompetence, and it's probably not easy to be in a five-calice, because we already have another coalition there, the separate unit - of course, to decide or manage it, it's hard. But we give you recipes, unlike you, we've been there, we have experience, but of course you don't want to understand. So this is happening right now after all these campaigns, and, of course, the reporters say that we did something. It's a lie. Our country is unlucky, and that was a fatal mistake, a fatal mistake, that coupon privatization and privatization of other things. If they went to Singapore after the revolution to ask about their fund, how it works, how they have 20 billion dividends each year from those investments, then the Czech state could keep everything if they put pros in there, if they put managers who don't steal it, if they didn't sell it all for a spade, so we could have it, at least the most important, at least what we see today is the most important, and that's of course the energy. And we've got nothing, and we're pretending to be. Well, we don't have it, we don't have it. And if you want to reprivatize it, we'll keep your fingers crossed. I think it's probably important, but I think it's passé. So now you can finally appreciate V4, the whole infrastructure here in this region, because we are dependent on Hungary, Poland. Even the Slovák have the electricity. They kept it, too. Yes, we have ČEZ, but Dukovany, of course, will take a long time. So that's how it is, and I think the Prime Minister will understand that cooperation is important within the V4 framework. But V4 doesn't mean Poland. I already feel like we're all here with Poland... I will not comment on the disadvantageous Turów, but I very much hope that the Czech Presidency will not be the Czech Presidency. Looks like if the Prime Minister wants to call Scholz, he's calling through Morawiecký. I understand that Poland is helping him somehow, but we are a sovereign country, we are the Czech Republic and we are supposed to fight for Czech interests. I've always done that. And it would be good for the Prime Minister to understand that even the hated Orbán, with this five-calice, owns 40 percent of the gas distribution. He owns the pumps, he owns the refinery in Bratislava, where you have the pipe from ÈEPRO. And if there's a lot of trouble, you're the only ones connected there, otherwise you can drive fuel in tanks, in wagons, and oil, I'd like to see that someone gets out of the pipeline. So that's the reality, that's what it's about. And of course, we read nonsense here every day about what we did wrong. We've done so much for people here, we've written in this brochure - I was talking about it here yesterday, especially about health - so I'm always shocked by the lies that the five-calice agency can sweat and brainwash Czech citizens with the help of pro-government media. So don't be surprised that when we have a chance to say something - of course, Czech TV doesn't broadcast it anymore when the coalition was in opposition, everything was broadcast - so at least we'll use the minimum space in you built totalitarianism and tell people the truth. And we will, of course, continue to do that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I will read the apologies for today, for the whole of the meeting because of the illness, Mrs Helena Válková apologizes and today, for personal reasons, Mr Pavel Staněk apologizes. I'm registering two applications with priority rights. First Minister Kupka and then Vice-President Vildumetzová. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u14	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear students, dear students. I can't do it, I have to respond to what you have heard, because Mr Babiš has gathered a number of remarkable sentences here. Yesterday he competed for the title Chief Big Mouth, today he took it just like Radio Jerevan. [[Applause and occasional pounding into the YES benches.]] It reminded some places of a dadaistic image from Šumava to Tatras, mumbling everything he could. But let's light some things up a little bit. I even wrote down some quotes here. He spoke of himself - we have such a saying in the Czech Republic, the most stinks of self praise, but it doesn't matter. Andrej Babiš here said, "Babiš understands business." And then he also criticized how everyone actually privatized it. And let's read something about how it was with Unipetrol. In 2004 Špidlův's government added to the sale of the chemical group Unipetrol for almost 15 billion Polish company PKN Orlen. In the background of the sale, Andrej Babiš stood with Agrofert, who had privatized Unipetrol two years before Zemanův's cabinet, but for allegedly too high a price since privatization after a year. In the second privatisation, PKN Orlen agreed with Babiš to sell him a share of Unipetrol for help in the event of victory. But Orlen failed to keep that promise, and Babiš sentenced 2.7 billion damages. [[Let's hear it for the five-wheelers.]] So these are the specific facts, the data on the criticism and the screaming about the privatization of Unipetrol. But that was far from it. Here we heard Andrej Babiš's intense support for Alexandr Vondra to re-leash emission allowances, so let's just remember a little bit. 2017 - I think the government of Andrej Babiš was in power, and supported the very opposite. It encouraged this, on the contrary, to make allowances significantly more expensive. So these are concrete facts that can be easily traced. But it doesn't end there either. We heard here about Andrej Babiš's involvement in Dukovany. Well, we all know about that, and it's pretty well mapped out. We know how the then Minister of Industry and Trade acted and tried to get Russia and China involved in the contract. That's what we all know. So what was it like with the Dukovans, on the contrary. That was more like a brake and an even greater risk of how it should actually turn out. But even that doesn't end with a set of remarkable recipes that we should have made. It kind of reminds me of a story about a dog and a cat making a cake. Andrej Babiš told the government how he advised us to buy gas quickly. Yes, even then, Karel Havlíček repeated this intensively in the television discussion to quickly buy. So the fact that Jozef Síkela did this with a distance brought savings to the Czech state of CZK 4 billion. And, of course, he took the next step. He did what he did to ensure that all traders supplied gas in time in case there were really any tightening of the faucets on the part of Russia. [[10.30 hours]] But of course it doesn't end there either. He said he did what he could in this matter, helping all Czech citizens. But what's the reality? And it can explain four times how it could not extend the contract with Norway, how nothing could actually be done to get involved in the construction of the Stork II pipeline from Poland. But the truth is, during the era of Andrej Babiš, our dependence on Russian gas and Russian raw materials has simply risen. Those are the facts that are hard to handle. But unfortunately, this isn't all from the point of view of what was said and what Andrej Babiš here wanted to boast about. It recommends that we do the same as in Hungary on fuel, for example. It is probably good to mention that several days there were queues at Hungarian petrol stations, the police had to supervise them, and at the same time, the Hungarian state has several complaints against it, because it simply meant serious damage and serious violations of the law. As for Chepra, I will just mention the important fact that in just the last four years, the state company ČEPRO has sent CZK 5 billion to Agrofert without tenders. I certainly hope that I have managed to conjure up a whole series of words about how someone is still campaigning against Andrej Babiš, how it is still the same song. And all you have to do is put specific data and facts on the table so that the whole speech, which really reminded Radio Jerevan, gets real contours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, who prefers President Babiš, is now with priority. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. Minister Kupka amused me, too, and he reads it from the phone, because of course he doesn't know what he's talking about, so he read it nicely. Well, Minister, if she wasn't a coupon and you went to Singapore for an internship, nothing would have been privatized. First he privatized for Minister Dlouhý Unipetrol, that was ODS in government, went Agip, Conoco and for 1 dollar they received 49 percent of their share in Czech refineries for investing. So you shouldn't have privatized it, there's a simple answer to that. So, of course, you're not telling the truth. You normally lie brutally. A lie is also a ceiling on fuels like Croatia's. There are also 36 crowns and there were no queues in Hungary. Maybe you read that somewhere. Then the recommendation about what we said systemically, what we would do. You messed up again, and you say we recommended buying that day, and now there's a price difference. They didn't recommend it. We said you should apply the German model, so you don't have to buy it, you have to leave it for those who do it, and if there is any difference... So you guys messed up because you bought the state budget with money. Mr. Stanjura miraculously found 8.5 billion. Yesterday, he explained that he only borrowed it temporarily and that he would ever return it. So you shouldn't have bought it with state money, you should have let distributors buy it. We didn't tell you when to shop. You guys were clueless, so you finally did it. So what kind of addiction? We don't have anything. You're not able to understand that you don't have anything? You don't control anything. You've mastered the fact that you put on a blue tie this morning, no, a blue shirt, that's what's affecting you. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] You have no influence on the purchase of gas, none. Gas sells Innogs, it's a Hungarian company, it's the Orbán that Pekarová hates, she said she's finally gonna beat him with the... There were six of them against Orbán, there were five of you, you defeated me because you didn't dare. So you don't have an effect on it. You don't. Now, you've got to realize that. What gas addiction? You got nothing. They all have state enterprises for gas, for refineries, fuel: Poland, Slovakia. Austria, Hungary. You don't have anything, so I don't know what you're talking about. And please tell me that my company - PREOL is not Agrofert, it is PREOL, and it is purchased transparently. Mr Stanjura and his main strategy to oversee where Agrofert is everywhere, but we don't steal and I didn't go into politics for a living unlike most of you. It's transparent and it's for the benefit of the people, it employs people. So don't say and don't criticize some things that don't exist. Emission allowances - please, I know it's difficult, I criticize the Prime Minister for criticizing me, I did something about it, he didn't continue, and now that he had the opportunity to support your Member Vondra, he didn't support him. That's all. You didn't do anything for people. Go to Slovakia, ask how they made a ceiling on electricity. The Slovák did it, the Maďar put fuel prices on the ceiling, the Polish reduced the VAT to zero, the Polák reduced and put the basic food on the table, and 24 member countries in Europe help people. You just charge more income to the high inflation budget, and you keep repeating nonsense that inflation was created by giving people money. It doesn't make any sense. Why do you have 100 percent higher inflation and you haven't given people anything? We had 5.3 percent in December, you have almost 13. You haven't given people anything since January, nothing at all. Jurečka came up with this ridiculous housing supplement. How much? 40,000 households? Now you've come up with the flat one. We don't want the area, then we want the area. You promise people, you send signals, and you can't even deliver the money to people. If we were in the government, people wouldn't go anywhere, and their electricity bills, gas and heating will drop dramatically. That's what we would do. And I've already told you x-times where you have money: 2,260 billion there you have thanks to us, we have won almost twice a thousand billion in Brussels. So you can interpret what you want here, I understand it's hard for you, you don't understand it, you read something there, but no one told you when to shop. We basically said you should do it according to Germany. At first we told you to buy it, then I changed my mind and I said: Yes, the Němec do it better, do it according to the Němec. You did it your way, because the sixth coalition partner here, Pokorný - Síkela, simply doesn't trust ČEZ, so then he makes a competition and your state company competes there. Oh, great. So make sure she stays five-caliber so the lobbyists don't run it from behind again. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u17	Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will now perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u18	Dear Vice-President, Ministers, fellow Members, I find it very strange that so far all citizens of the Czech Republic are burdened with the problem of raising energy prices, raising fuel prices, only the opposition is fighting. It almost really looks as if the people of the government coalition were trapped in a glass ball and they didn't know what was going on in individual cities and regions. I hope you are all really aware that all citizens today feel the impact of an increase in energy prices. Today it is not just the problem of socially weaker people, and I am convinced, and I have said this for several times, that this problem can really become a trigger for social unrest, because let's say that without gas and electricity in quotation marks...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u19	I'm sorry, Madam Vice-President, but I'm going to ask your colleagues in the left side of the hall to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u20	I don't think my colleagues in the coalition are interested, but I can see that even on the left-hand spectrum...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u21	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u22	...maybe it's even louder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u23	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u24	That's why I'm saying that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u25	And I'll arrange the order myself. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u26	... I also see that on the left side of the speaker. I don't know how I can convince you to support the motion for a meeting today, to approve the programme, and to have the House press, even if it's in the '90s, but I'm sure it's possible to agree and send it to the next reading. Perhaps I can convince you, and I would recommend it to all: a few days ago, an energy expert and investor Michal Šnobr appeared in one media, perhaps many of you know him, and I would like to quote some very important things from his interview: "The situation around prices in the Czech Republic is underestimated," says this energy expert. "I am convinced that small consumers and households, as well as companies, will be affected by the situation in the second half of this year and in the first half of 2023, as well as by gradually increasing standard price lists, or by ending companies and households that have fixed prices and having to jump on current prices, and the price that the household will pay not only in billing, i.e. in advance, can be a multiple of what they have been paying so far. This means that instead of the advance that they paid for today's 3,000 crowns a month, it can jump to 12,000 to 15,000 crowns." Now that I'm listening to the expert here, I imagine, of course, what advances my mother, who is retired, is living in a cooperative apartment, I know how much pension she has, unfortunately she has one of the lowest pensions, and so when I think about how much deposit she's paying today, and if that's the way she's going to get it, I'm asking what she's going to buy her public transport card - or, of course, there might be a discount, some cities are giving - what she's going to buy food, medicine, and, of course, other important things that she needs to secure. And now I would continue to say what else he says - I'm not saying it, says the energy expert and investor Michal Šnobr: "Five times more expensive gas is a real price increase. It's 90 percent of the commodity price. It is a continuous price increase, which can be repeated several times. I therefore stress the turning point in 2022, 2023. What to do at this point? Now the consumer can't do anything at all. I still hope that the state has a solution in its hands, some regulation, because it will be unbearable for consumers and the economy, because ultimately this could be economically worse for us than covid. Consumers can save, tens of percent can be saved. It's the temperature reduction we've been suggested here, savings in the right way. But the second thing is to replace gas boilers with solar panels, but there I'm skeptical because at the moment there's a great lack of interest. I would now expect an overview of how to save, how to take measures so that there are no such effects."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u27	Please don't yell at your colleagues. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u28	So for Mr Žáček, through Mr President, I spoke what he said, what he said for one media during the interview, energy expert and investor Michal Šnobr. So that's why these words. So I really still don't understand that the government coalition is closing its eyes to this problem, which affects all citizens of the Czech Republic. There are a number of mayors, chieftains, local politicians sitting on the bench. You all know, when you've drawn up the budget for 2022, many of you will have to make budgetary measures, because the impact on energy prices within budgets is high. I must say that other articles that are beginning to appear - at night home with a flashlight, municipalities turn off lighting for saving night - are looking for these measures and it is a problem both in cities, municipalities, but, of course, in senior homes, hospitals, sports clubs, as I said, just everywhere. And what bothers me is that you keep your eyes closed on this problem, that you don't want to talk about the problem, and you don't want to help those people. I still don't understand one thing: 24 countries came up with measures, reduced VAT, ceiling prices, so 24 countries help people, and we do not come up with any such measures. I would therefore like to ask you again very much - I can also read here the stories of the elderly who appear everywhere, as these people will in no way manage financially, so I would like to ask you again to really consider whether to approve today's programme and, if necessary, send the prints first reading, because the discussion of this House press can then take place in the committees and I understand that we can talk about whether the rate should be 0 per cent, 5%, and of course it is legitimate to have a debate on this. I know for a fact that whoever comes after me will say that the government is helping, that it comes with help. But I don't think an increase in living and existential minimum of 10 percent, so there's no way that's going to cover current inflation. And I would like to stress once again that when we handed you over or, respectively, when you came to the government, inflation was 5.9 percent, today it is climbing to 13 percent. And this inflation was maintained in November and December, thanks to the measure, that the VAT rate was 0% in November and December. Then you say that you have come with the help that so people can come and line up for the office of work and ask for a living fee or immediate emergency assistance. We all know, and when I was here translating a bunch of these forms to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I asked him if he would fill them out and send them to my e-mail - it didn't happen. But talk to these people. First of all, a lot of people aren't gonna go in there at all, because just have fun with them if they want to go this way. It's unimaginable for them when you're talking to the older person, so he says, "I've never gone to the office of employment, and I'll never go there. And it's really sad that a guy who's worked here his whole life and spent his whole life paying his taxes, so now he's gonna go to the employment office and ask for some kind of welfare benefit. If this is possible in other EU countries, why is it not possible for us to do so by reducing VAT or other measures in the framework of the ceiling? Then we have the Minister of Industry and Trade here today. He said he presented some 13 points, but so far, virtually nobody has seen them, and I don't even know that any of it has been realized. [[10.50 hours]] And then, last week, the government aid came to the children, where first a million crowns of net income were spoken, then gross, but the interesting thing is that what was said is that it still doesn't know what it's going to be like, and actually how it's going to look, it's going to be known in two or three weeks, so practically your parents don't know anything, and eventually, if this help comes, it's going to come sometime in the holiday months. So the government keeps saying, "We're preparing, designing, practically sending some signals, but nothing's happening at all." And all I'm saying is that if only one commodity were to raise the price, if it was just petrol and diesel, I'm convinced that people would make it, but if everything gets more expensive, then the cast can't handle it, and we're here to help people. I've already said that inflation is 13 percent. The Czech Statistical Office published specific data today. Gas has increased us by 56,6 %, diesel by 37.7 %, natural gas by 24,7 %, electricity by 14.3% and I could continue this way both through food and other commodities. You still think we don't have to deal with this? You still think we don't have to help people? Aren't you worried about a riot, that there may be a real situation, that there will be a chain reaction, that people will not be able to handle it at all? I think that we really should think about this - and we are not coming here for the first time with this program, we are asking you for it for several times - and I would like to ask you again very much, support the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting. I would certainly still agree that this would not have gone through the first reading, but just as we did yesterday, although we did not agree, sent to the second reading the fact that 14 billion crowns were taken under public health insurance, even if we were promised that this would be dealt with in the context of valorisation of this contribution by an amendment, so we can still agree on this - we will send all these prints first reading, let us debate across the political spectrum in committees, find common solutions and help people. They need this help and they need it now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Just for the record, I'm saying that in the event of a settlement of order in the room, he's setting up a management meeting, not the one who talks from his counter. This applies both to you, Madam Vice-President and to anyone who performs. And now Minister Síkela, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u30	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable students, I, when I came here today and I saw that my Prime Minister Kupka claims with priority right to debate, so I asked him why he was doing this - for it is completely unnecessary to respond to such untruths and excuses. And then I sat here for five minutes, listening to the untruths and excuses, and I realized I had to get up, too, and I have to say something, and especially because of you, because you, as a future generation, deserve to hear how it really is. And for MEPs YES - I don't have a cell phone, I don't have any notes, I don't even have a long speech prepared to read. I only have a few comments. What you are hearing, how it would be very easy to address the current situation by abolishing the VAT on energy, so that means, among other things, using the money that we could use elsewhere, the money that we don't have, the money that our country has to borrow on debt. The government that was here before us has indebted this country like no other before, and the debts are already so high today that we, your parents, will have trouble repaying those debts. And I'm asking you if you want to go into your future careers and your life by starting by paying off the debts that some government has made for you in the past and transferring the responsibility for repaying those debts to you. I don't think anybody wants anything like that, no one wants to go into life equipped with the fact that his starting line starts somewhere at a negative. That's the first thing. Second thing. When we joined our offices, and I remember that day very well, Mr. MP, then Prime Minister in Babiš demise, together with Prime Minister Fiala, we arrived at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. There was a minister waiting for me at the time of industry and trade and transportation, because the second handover - I don't remember whether it was before or after - so he prepared me such long, large files, transfer protocols, and we got information that our government doesn't really have to do anything. They say everything is prepared so that we just need to go on with what our predecessors were doing. And then there was war, there was war in Ukraine, there was an energy crisis that came before, and today we hear that we don't really control anything, everything is being controlled by Innogs and everything is being dealt with in Poland. And we've been hearing it for a while. We hear you do what we advise you to do, you don't control anything, you don't really have any influence. So I've done my job, and I've commissioned our teams to go through those transfer protocols and look at those strategies, those concepts that we might learn from, like, how the energy and commodity expert, Mr. Babiš, and his economic starry infantry, advise us here to learn what they left for us, those strategies, the concepts, the instructions on how to proceed. We've been looking, we've been going through it. We found a lot of things, like different legal opinions, why it is possible to pay subsidies to companies in Agrofert group. Even now we have heard this, but as for those strategies, concepts, instructions on how to buy, Mr Havlíček, through Mr President, gas to state reserves, you certainly know it very well, you had it prepared, you taught me, trained when to buy, at what cost. So, dear students, dear Members, dear Members, do you know what we found? Nothing at all. The past government for energy security, for setting up strategies, for reducing addiction, for us to be in a better situation than having to argue with the Polák now, with the Němec to ensure sufficient supply of raw materials to this country, has done absolutely nothing. And that's just the way it is. We have to live with that now, but trust me, we can handle it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. Only to your contribution - please, when you speak to the Members, address them through me, or through the President. Technical note. Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Havlíček will now speak with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u32	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. I've been trying to draw up your solution right now, because we've met here today to figure out how we're going to help households, companies. We can have different opinions here, I'll take it, but what have we learned from you? Once again, Dukovany - when he's always in his shoes, we pull Dukovany out. Yes, we have prepared Dukovany, and if we hadn't prepared them and packed them for you, there's nothing at the moment. We can talk about why we wanted Rosatom to go into security and tender, and we're not hiding it. I'll ask you why between 2010 and 2013, when there was a tender for Temelín, why did Rosatoma make it to the finals? I've never been in hiding with the fact that we said, "Let's put in more potential suppliers, press the price, then we'll discuss and, based on the assessment of the security forces, let's take out one or the company." I think it's pretty transparent, pretty transparent. But what's the point? We've prepared everything, and all you need is one thing, Minister, to start your own tender. Not to you, but to Čez, let me be absolutely precise. And if we didn't, we're just talking about nuclear power until today. It may not be worth explaining further the Polish pipeline Stork and the Czech-Hungarian gas pipeline BAC, that the Polák dropped it when it was funded by the European Commission - and let us ask why they dropped it. That is because at that time Nord Stream 2 was already being built, or it was known that it would be being built, and because Nord Stream 1 had ended shortly before. And why the European Union didn't make a mark when it started preparing South Stream, so it changed, to be precise, on Türkish Stream or Turk Stream, and that is still Russian gas. Why did Nabucco, which was supposed to create independence for Europe or at least a minor dependence on Russian gas, be abolished then? Because Europe did not want this and did not want it, among other things, because it felt a simple way of collecting gas, so it created an infrastructure which did not give Central European countries such as the Czech Republic, such as Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, any other chance at all. Now the pipeline from Germany leads to us, and we don't decide what's going to happen in the pipeline, but because the German gas pipeline has Jamal, Nord Stream 1 and also the Norwegian gas pipeline, it is clear that it will overwhelm with Russian gas. Why did the European Union fight so much against gas extraction in Norway? Yes, green Deal, it tells us something. The government wrote on the first line that Green Deal is a great opportunity, but it is also a risk - even if I admit that there are, of course, some opportunities in it too. So Europe has completely isolated itself, has only been supplied with Russian gas, I am not just saying, but Central and Eastern Europe clearly, and these countries do not really have a chance to change anything anymore. Should they have made another pipe? Where, if we don't have anything to connect to? One option was Polish gas. He wouldn't be Polish, he would probably be Norwegian. And you know why the Polák didn't want it back then? What was the main reason? Well, because there would be a lot of Nord Stream, or Nord Stream 1 gas, and Russian gas would be pushed in, just like it was with a famous Norwegian contract. And I don't blame you for the bad intentions in 1997. Yes, there was a contract prepared with Norway at the beginning of 20 percent, then it decreased, in the end there was barely 5 percent. Why? Well, because the Russian gas beat it in the pipes, that's easy. BACI? Czech-Austrian project, for Russian gas of course. Who lobbied here to take it from Slovakia and not to make BAC, the Czech-Austrian short clutch? After all, Mirek Topolánek here flew from office to office as a representative of who was sitting in Eustream and had an eminent interest in taking Slovak gas, despite the Slovak government that criticized us for it, yes, and I understood that because he wanted us to take gas through their pipes, so we supported BAC back then, just as we supported Stork. But unfortunately, the Polák refused, and the European Commission then classified them as unfinanceable projects. It's traceable, it's as simple as that. But again, how we are tied to Russian gas today is a targeted European effort. But for what it's worth, we can argue about who's ever stood here, but we're being looked at by people, we're being looked at by companies. We have students here who are in some families, they exist, they work and solve a problem today and every day, the problem of the nature of the extremely rising energy prices, and we met here today to tell each other what we're going to do about it. I haven't heard one word from government officials about what we're gonna do about it. I, on purpose, said the model of renewables here at the outset. I said how to do it, I said how to prepare it, I said where to get the resources, whether through the Modernization Fund of CZK 8 billion a year, or through the increased dividend of ČEZ, so that it would not affect the immediately planned budget. And instead of getting off, please, nicely, and you said, this is wrong, it would be better, or we wouldn't do it at all, and explain why - why we can't have renewable resources that cost us 19 billion crowns a year, I mean, families and companies now, I don't take of course, that's another almost 20 billion crowns, a little less, sorry, 27 billion crowns - so it didn't say anything at all. So the one who looks at us will say, "Well done, so you settled accounts that were ten, fifteen, twenty years ago, but how the government will help us - because we can't help, we have our hands to a large extent tied, it's in the hands of government and government MPs - so nothing has been said. Minister of Industry, we do not advise, we are the opposition, please, let us get used to it. Let's get used to it the way I've been treated, and to be honest, I had to count on it, so you'll be criticized. I don't see anything wrong with that. And you don't have to take our advice, you don't have to follow it at all, but please, at least take advice from those who are directly linked to you, whether it's the company CEPRO, whether it's the company MERO, whether it's the state ČEPS, there's experts sitting there, and when you compare their opinion, you'll find that it's not quite far from what we're telling you here, and we don't have to think over the ego here: we've come to meet the opposition. You don't have to, because it's not about us winning here, standing over you like Tarzan and yelling. Our point is to improve at least a little bit the situation that is becoming almost critical in some companies and in some families. And we didn't hear that here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u33	Another priority right is registered by Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. This is President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I also have to afford to respond primarily to the Minister of Industry and Trade. I didn't understand what he was applauding from among the members of the government coalition, because I just registered insults to the last government. I don't know how much longer it's gonna last, making excuses about something from the past, pointing things out all the time? I have to say, you know, Minister, we have politicians who are very good at talking - and you speak clearly, very slowly, you try to say it simply - but then it's also about the job, the results that the minister does, what he does. All I know is that in your department, you came up with some 13 points. So I am calling you at this point because no one here has stepped up with what measures will therefore be for the citizens. So if you do not agree with our proposal to reduce VAT to energy, or to withdraw funds from renewable sources under the Modernisation Fund, then please, I call on you: come forward and introduce us to the thirteen measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u35	Next in line with the priority right, President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, Minister Síkela, I'll start positive. [[As always.]] Yes, that's right. But that will be very short. I'm positive that you've stepped out because you've been walking around here for an hour like a lion in a cage, I'm looking at you from the front row, I understand, I appreciate you getting out. [[11.10 hours]] What I don't appreciate anymore is that you basically didn't say anything. Karel Havlíček didn't do anything there, he left you nothing, he didn't give you anything - he probably just sat there and read the papers, according to your words. You've been talking about finance for a while, you've been talking about the MIT, but my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, Vice-President of the House, said it right now: Let's basically say what you're going to do. This really won't last much longer. I can also fence you with numbers here and tell you that debt has increased by more than 16 percent of GDP for ODS governments. For governments where the YES movement was, the Ministry of Finance had a little over 2 percent of GDP. And I'm gonna fill you in with these numbers that I have clouds. I will repeat to you again that we are the sixth least-indebted country of the European Union, and don't bring up the pace of debt on me again, please. Yes, it was the third highest in 2021, because my decision was based on the recommendations of the MF experts, and I have always put on experts because they were doing their job top-notch - to pre-finance myself before the interest rises dramatically. This certainly paid off in the long run, and today you have one less wrinkle. I stand by that decision. In those two years of covid, and don't forget, there was covid, I remind you, covid! - before we had balanced surplus funds, third or fourth best. And the covid came. As you are now in crisis, too, very difficult. And we're waiting. If you don't like what we're proposing and I repeat, we're the opposition, then make your proposals, but tell people what you're going to do. That didn't sound like it, and none of you have made any specific suggestions. What have you done so far? The crown of 50 excise duties since June 1st? Who's gonna feel that? Nobody! And more help? A drop in the sea. So come and say, if you had the courage, I'll admit it, the only one to get to the point - well, not to the point, but to get off - so come here, come here and tell me what you're gonna do. Please don't say you won't do anything! 'Cause it's nothing that's causing all the trouble that's been building up here day in and day out. And one more thing. You see how the debate is going to be coming up, and I would like to - and my fellow Members from the MP's club come to me, they also have something to say, the former minister sits among them, the former Deputy Secretary sits there, they have a lot of things to say - so don't worry, support our meeting and let's talk about it! Don't be afraid of us and support our meeting! I believe all other colleagues have something to say about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u37	At this point, I don't have anyone logged in to the program. Marek Benda reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u38	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a break at the ODS meeting for 32 minutes. At 11.45 we would proceed to the vote on the agenda of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u39	Yes, I understand that I'm interrupting our negotiations. Meet me at 11.45 for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-05-ps2021-021-01-000-000.u40	Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is 11:45 p.m., the time of the break requested by the ODS has passed, and we will now proceed to the vote on the entire draft agenda of the 21st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm just adding to the tape that I'm going to vote with replacement card number 23. I do not see any other preferential rights, so that we can proceed to the vote. I will reiterate that we will be voting on the entire agenda of the 21st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented to you in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand? [[Voice off the microphone.]] I am registering the motion for withdrawal, so I declare this vote (number 2) confusing. Next time, please, those who want us to sign off to do so before I begin the vote. However, I have checked you out, and I will ask you to re-enter your identification cards. [[Member Benda from the space in front of the speaker's counter off the microphone: One colleague has no card.]] And we'll wait a little while so one of our colleagues can take a spare card. [[The President shall remain silent.]] If everyone has their cards issued, Mr. Vomáčka will vote with a replacement card number 30. Okay, so we can proceed to the vote, we all know what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of raising his hand and pressing the button. Who's against it? Voting number three, 174 Members have been voted in favour, 79 voting against 87. The proposal was rejected and therefore the agenda for the meeting was not approved. Before we break up, I have a technical statement for you. On Sunday, 8 May, an open day will take place in the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. I appeal to you to clean all the materials from your desks or they will be shredded. Thank you very much and I wish you the rest of the day.
