ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal by Members of Karel Haas and others to issue a law amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws /house print 270/ - second reading Mr Karel Haas, who I beg to take the floor, shall make the motion put forward for the appellant. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] Otherwise, I will ask my colleagues to keep their voices down, or to transfer the discussions outside the Chamber of Deputies, so that the Member may be responsible for the plaintiffs...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u2	Good morning, Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues. I will be very brief in the second reading in my introductory word to House press number 270. Why will I be brief? I refer to me very closely presented by the House press in the opening word for the first reading. The House Press 270 was very detailed twice discussed by the Guarantee Education Committee, and was also very detailed twice discussed in the Sub-Committee on Sport. I would like to thank the representatives of the two opposition MPs from this place in the introductory words, because I think that the House Press 270, with which I do not accept a fully legitimate vote in plenary, but was very constructively discussed across the Chamber of Deputies, and for this constructive discussion with the whole opposition I would like to thank, with special thanks, through the President - I do not see him - the chair of the school committee from this place. As part of the discussion, of course, I am prepared to answer any questions that will fall. [[9.10 hours]] I am not really going to extend my opening word, I am merely saying that, following the validation of the House's 270 press with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, I will make a very brief, only legislative technical amendment. I won't delay in my opening words any longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 270/2 to 4. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Lubomír Brož, inform us about the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, the Education Committee discussed the proposal at two of its meetings and adopted three resolutions on it. Let me now introduce you to the committee procedure and to the resolutions adopted. At its 15th meeting on 5 October, the Education Committee suspended the examination of the proposal by 19 October and set a deadline for the submission of amendments to the School Committee until 10 October. Subsequently, the Education Committee adopted a resolution on 11 October per rollam extending the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Education Committee by 13 October to 14 hours. At his 16th meeting...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u5	Mr. Colleague, I'm gonna interrupt you. I will really ask my colleagues to keep their discussions down, or to transfer them outside the Chamber, so that we can continue to discuss our point. Colleagues, colleagues, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. At its 16th meeting on 19 October, the Education Committee subsequently adopted a resolution by which it recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the proposal of Members of Karel Haas and others to issue a law amending the Sport Support Act, House press No 270, as amended by the amendment. The amendment approved by the Committee was tabled by Mr Karel Haas. The proposal is quite comprehensive and responds to the various shortcomings of the original proposal mentioned during the discussion of this press. From the most important areas I will mention the following - I know that then the chair of the sports subcommittee will come forward in more detail. So for me: Firstly, the proposal explicitly defines what school sport means and further defines the obligations of the Ministry of Education in this area. For example, it sets a specific deadline by which the Ministry of Education will submit to the Government for approval a draft action plan to support school and university sport for the next year. Secondly, the proposal introduces an obligation for continuous and regular communication between the National Sports Agency and sports organisations, municipalities, ministries and other institutions. Thirdly, the proposal limits the number of terms of office for which members of the Council of the National Sports Agency may be appointed, thus limiting them to only two consecutive periods. Fourthly, the proposal is officially set up by the National Court of Arbitration for Sport. Fifthly, the obligation of the National Sports Agency to make continuous efforts to take initiative in the preparation of proposals and other financial instruments for promoting sport, other than subsidies from the State budget, is introduced. The proposal also regulates some other areas and makes clear some of the unclear areas of the original proposal, however, by being really complex, I mention only the most fundamental changes from my point of view. The amendment was adopted by a total of sixteen votes on the school committee, no one opposed, no one stayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I am now opening a general debate to which Members have come forward in this order: Mr Jakub Janda will be the first to speak and Mrs Šebelová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the content of the comprehensive amendment adopted by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as its own. As far as the National Sports Agency is concerned, here we mainly want to adjust its role of managing, to create a new role of control and to improve and make it more transparent, because, like the saying "fish smells from the head" right here, there is a basis for solving better promotion of sport, and the problems that need to be addressed are not enough. The main managing body of the Agency should be the Board. We originally proposed it as a five-member, but after objections and many comments, we came to the conclusion, with regard to budgetary responsibility in the current crisis period, that a three-member board, that is, the President, the Vice-President and a member of the Board, would suffice to ensure full assurance of the Agency's intended functions. I'm gonna stay with the board for a while, because that's crucial. We expect it to bring new insights and impulses to the functioning of the Agency, among other things, that it will be the gateway to possible corruption threats, that sport will deliver the necessary erudition and, in return, its members will receive functional certainty. As far as their possible end is concerned, there is a need for clear rules in this regard. The agency itself. Members of its governing body, i.e. the board, should be appointed by the government, which will also be responsible. They will be given a term of office for five years, which has already been mentioned by the rapporteur, with the possibility of one subsequent extension. Here we have heard the comments of the opposition. We want to promote change across the political spectrum. With a compromise solution, we will achieve continuity in the solution to the sports agenda, but at the same time we will prevent the threat of concreteisation of this body, thereby moving smoothly to the newly established function of the board, which is the creation of financial instruments to support a particular sport or sector, or not only through subsidies, but also by other means. The condition is for the entire Council to agree on this. Its position should also be strengthened by further regulation which gives it the right to submit proposals to the Prime Minister on how to improve its functioning. Newly, we also want to put greater demands on the management of the Agency. In addition to proper education, there will also be requirements for managerial skills and experience from the administration of sport. The ban on cumulation of functions, of course, remains. Last but not least, we are also adjusting the way in which the Board is recalled, in order to increase transparency here as well. The appeal must be clearly justified by the government which appoints the members of the Board and is therefore responsible for their functioning. And the very last thing about the management of the Agency, specifically the salary of its chairman. Here, too, we want to be budgetaryly responsible, which is why we are reducing the pay coefficient from 2.06 to 1.80. We believe that this reward will still be adequate. As far as transparency is concerned, we come up with a duty for the Agency to communicate regularly with sports organisations, regions and municipalities and to assess feedback on the Agency's activities from these bodies. We are also setting a new deadline by which the Agency should submit an action plan to promote sport. It will be the last June, and the Ministry of Education will have the same obligation with regard to school and university sports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u9	Mr. Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I can barely hear your words. I'm gonna ask my colleagues to calm down. Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u10	This term corresponds, both in substance and in time, to the preparation of the draft budget, grant titles and calls for the next calendar year. In this respect, we have also heard objections about the definition of school and university sport. It is now more precisely defined in order to make it clear where the competence of the Ministry of Education, or the National Sports Agency, begins and ends. And now an extremely important thing. One of the shortcomings of the Agency was the lack of control mechanisms, or the fact that the Agency was controlled and not some sort of empire of one president. The Supervisory Board shall be set up to guarantee permanent and effective supervision of the operation of the Agency. Here, too, we have heard the objections and modified both the way it was created and the operation. The appointment of its members will be solely within the competence of Parliament, each of the chambers should choose five, and so should their possible appeals, or the government should have no influence on the composition of the Supervisory Commission of the Agency, which would further strengthen the control role of this newly established body. It also makes sense, for the budget chapter of the Agency is approved by the legislature, so it is also appropriate to supervise, among other things, the management of the Agency. Moreover, membership of the Commission will be exercised - and here we ask for really deep attention not to learn from the newspapers again something that is not in the legislation at all - so the commission will in no way burden the Agency's budget or any other budget. [[9.20 hours]] Another important institutional change is the emergence of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport. Here too, we have listened to the comments, namely the WADA World Anti-Doping Agency. The Court of First Instance will be completely independent of the management of the Agency. Its head shall be a five-member Bureau appointed for six years to be appointed by the Council. In addition to appropriate education, at least three years experience in sports law will be a condition for its members. It will be a high-value, that is, an unpaid function, so there will be no further burden on public budgets either. At the same time, we will meet international expectations and some international standard. The proposed comprehensive amendment also deals with the register of sports organisations. Here, too, we promise to strengthen transparency and, thanks to modern technologies, to increase the availability of information. We have also heard comments from both the anti-doping agency and the sports community itself. An important topic, which the amendment also deals with, is the adjustment of the conditions for granting subsidies to sports organisations. We now want to take into account whether organisations are getting rid of imaginary black sheep and are serious about cleansing, or if they have no subsidies in their statutory bodies who have been finally convicted of a sport-related crime or even a grant fraud. But if they get rid of such a person, they will be able to apply and possibly get it. It also improves the conditions under which the regions and municipalities will be able to apply for funding for sports activities, thus reaching the last point. From small municipalities, we want to remove the obligation to develop a sport development plan, which has put many of them under undue pressure. Newly, only municipalities with extended scope will have this obligation. Although this is a legislative cosmetic change, I dare say that the impact will be considerable, because all those drawers, which small municipalities only copied from each other to have a comma and to be fulfilled before state control, disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, the sum of the sum of the amendments is really needed; Czech sport will clearly help. I hope that both the amendment to the Sport Support Act and this summary of amendments have sufficient support for you, because our sport certainly deserves it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u11	Yes, thank you. The next one will be presented in the general debate by Mrs Šebelová. Madame, please, you have the floor. Mr. Babka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I will just briefly follow up on the chair of the subcommittee on sport. In line with the Ministry of Youth and Sports Education, which I would like to briefly present here, and in agreement with the main proposer, Mr Karel Haas, I would like to present to you my two simple amendments. They propose to delete the obligation to prepare an annual action plan for promoting sport for the Ministry of Youth and Sports Education. In view of the fact that schools and educational establishments, or universities, are operating within the school year or academic year, whereas the action plan for promoting sport is linked to the financial year, this is for the calendar year, it seems more appropriate to leave only the State policy plan for school and university sport, which is planned for a period of five years. At the same time, in the last sentence of § 4 para. 2 proposes a legislative technical regulation consisting in adjusting the reference and adding the words "a number of municipalities" that fell out of the provision by mistake, see Amendment 1. In the event that an amendment to the Education Committee has not been adopted, I am submitting a second amendment, which concerns only the removal of these plans, but this will be unvoteable if the amendment to the Education Committee is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Next in the order of the general debate is Mr Babka, Mr Kettner will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u14	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to thank the petitioner here for working on some of our demands in our negotiations on the amendment to the National Sports Agency. However, you have worked up, for example, our request that the Executive Board, which will run the National Sports Agency, be three members, not five. At this point, let me ask you a question, Mr. Speaker. You, in this comprehensive amendment, which has already been adopted by the Education Committee, state that the council will only be able to be heard when all three members are present. That means, my question to you is, do you think that this is sufficient at this point in the sense that the council will be sufficiently able to act in any way at a time when, for example, that one member would be ill if he could adopt any resolutions and so on. This is my first question that we might - perhaps we will come to realize that this is not a very happy solution. The second thing I would like to mention here in the general debate is that we have recorded two amendments to the system with colleagues Jan Richter, Roman Kubíček, Jaroslav Bžoch and Lubomír Brož concerning what I mentioned here at first reading of this law, and that is education. At the beginning, or at first reading, it was only the education of the President and Vice-President of the National Sports Agency. This amendment concerns your comprehensive amendment, so it responds to it, so it responds to how you adjust it in that amendment, that is to say all three members of the Executive Board. This means that you make it a condition for a member, vice-chairman and chairman of the National Sports Agency to have a Master's degree. One of our amendments responds to the fact that they only have a secondary education with a graduation exam, the other proposal offers solutions so that they have an education only achieved by studying in the Bachelor's degree programme. I have also explained at first reading that it appears to us that the condition of achieving a Master's degree of education with regard to the Agency's competence in the field of sport is redundant and could in the future prevent the membership or performance of this function to suitable and very high quality candidates, because, as I mentioned here, the sports environment is simply specific and require all three members who are likely to be the new head of the Agency to be considered redundant. Thus, the aim of both of our amendments is that the condition of education achieved for appointment as President of the Agency, Vice-President of the Agency and member of the Agency's Board should be mitigated to achieve higher education obtained by a study in the Bachelor's degree programme, in the second case that condition should be reduced to achieving secondary education with a senior exam. I understand, and I politically understand your request for Master's education, however, colleagues, let me ask you to think very carefully about whether you would not at least mitigate this fact in this law, in a comprehensive amendment, at least on the subject of Bachelor's education, because - and as I have already mentioned here - the area of sport is very specific and in the future we could prevent us from really giving up on the fact that there could be significant officials at the head of the agency who, unfortunately, would not meet the condition of Master's education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u15	Yes, thank you. In the general debate, Mr Kettner is also signed up to take the floor. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I must commend the petitioner for his communication, we were truly members of all negotiations. This proposal, this amendment, has a purpose, is thought out. Of course, there were some places of dispute, but I think there was a will in these areas too, in some way, to make a deal. I think that the amendments which address and eliminate these areas in some way also make sense, so I can say that we will definitely support this amendment, and we will also support all the amendments that make it work and somehow improve the overall proposal for this amendment. And as I was saying, the SPD will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u17	Yes, thank you. Before we go any further, I'll load three more apologies. Mr Benešík Ondřej apologizes from 9.15 am to 10.30 pm for health reasons, Vice-President Havlíček apologizes from 12 pm for work reasons and Minister Lipavský apologises for work reasons for the whole day. And there is one more apology cancelled, and that is, Mr. Vrána's withdrawal of his apology today. We will continue the general debate. Next is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who I will ask to take the floor. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak, and I have been speaking at first reading on the amendment to the Act on the promotion of sport, when there was a big debate. I have clearly said that I do not agree with the structure proposed at the moment, for reasons and for financial reasons, because the five-member board headed by the President is now going to change into three-members, but it will, of course, be with a reward, which means that these people will be in executive office and will be paid, of course, from the National Sports Agency's budget, and it is clear that then the number of people who are now on the National Sports Agency will be reduced to the detriment of these three executives. And if I have the right information, today the head of the National Sports Agency is the chairman, the two vice-chairmen, and I have the information that that one vice-chairman isn't there today, and the reasons are financial. So I have no idea how it will be, if the new structure is to be, that we will have a chairman, two Vice-Presidents and three more paid board members, plus a ten-member supervisory board, which will be without any remuneration, but it is clear that it will be from among the members of Parliament and the senators. And I think that if the National Sports Council had worked there so far, which was without any claims for remuneration, and I think that there really was a very professional representation, there was a representation of all the sports unions, clubs, but also the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Communities and others, but also the athletes who might have expressed themselves in some way, I think that was enough. The last time we had a debate over the amendment to the law, it was very resonating here from some Members that it was necessary to control the National Sports Agency. I agree with that, and I would just like to remind you that our Member Roman Kubíček, who submitted an amendment to the Act on the Supreme Audit Office, was very active during the last term of office, where he wanted to place control of the National Sports Agency. Well, who, of course, arranged that this law had not passed the legislative process and had been dropped was the Senate. That is why, after the debate that was held here last time, and it was said, above all, from the coalition Members, who have just pointed out that the control is inadequate - and I fully agree with that, if the law had passed, the control would have already been there - so I took the liberty of submitting an amendment that I have put into the system today, which is that the National Sports Agency should be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office. I assume that coalition MEPs will support this amendment because it is exactly what was mentioned here in plenary last time. I will then sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u19	Your performance brought up two factual points. First point of fact - Mr Babka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mrs Mračková has brought me to a question that I would like to raise here, and because I saw the Prime Minister here at the beginning of the meeting, and because yesterday we could read in the paper that the current President of the National Sports Agency Filip Neusser will end on 30 November, so it might be appropriate here - because this point is open and directly related to the National Sports Agency - so I think it would be fair and it would be good for the sports environment to hear the reasons, or the way in which their meeting took place, the way in which they agreed that the President would end and, above all, the way in which the National Sports Agency would be organised for the adoption of this amendment, whether its operation would be ensured, whether the payment of funds would be ensured, and how it would take place in the quotes of the conversion period before the new President of the National Sports Agency or the President of the Sports Agency, so how this period will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, and another one with a point of fact will be delivered by Mr Šimek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. I also dare to respond through you, Mr Vice-President, to the performance by Mrs Mračková Mrachko. As he says, the amendment - basically today we have the President of a sports agency with the same salary as the Minister, plus two Vice-Presidents, one of which is not currently occupied, but if you look at the official record of the sports agency, a tender was announced on 1 August. The fact that money isn't for it, it's not entirely true, she's a lot of vacant posts at that agency, she's not staffed enough, so it also takes the process of evaluating individual challenges as it lasts. With the amendment that we are proposing, we are reducing the President's salary to the classic coefficient, as all the directors of the classical offices, such as the Czech Telecommunications Office and others, have a coefficient of 1.8, as well as the Vice-Presidents, the two other members, have actually adjusted the pay coefficient, so it will not cost the sports agency in any way, on the contrary there will be a more efficient drawdown of state resources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u23	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now make a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I certainly thank the Member for his response, but I certainly cannot agree with that. I can certainly agree that the coefficient, the remuneration of the President and the Vice-Presidents will be reduced, but there will be three more paid posts. Then give me an economic assessment that it will be less money than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u25	Thank you and we are now returning to the general debate in which Mr Vondráček is signed up. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u26	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mr Haas' call for a constructive debate, which he had in his introductory words. I'm gonna pay him back now that maybe he was the only one who read the lobbying bill and discussed it with me here when the lobbying bill was being dealt with. [[9.40 hours]] I confess that I did not capture, as a Member, that a comprehensive proposal is being made in the school committee, just a lot of the agenda. I have some comments on the law, I think that they are basically legal, and that the Vice-President, who is in charge of it, should have a clear view of it, so I propose, at the beginning, in accordance with Paragraph 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 to get the press back to the guarantee committee to renegotiate. This would be voted on at the end of the general debate. In the event that I am not granted, then I also submit a proposal pursuant to § 94 para. 4 to reject the law at third reading. Then I'll ask that this be recorded. I recognise or respect the good intentions of the petitioner, even with regard to the law, and the comprehensive amendment, but I have such a general comment that every legislator should follow the basic principles, the rules for the law to meet the conditions of constitutional conformity, and such basic constitutional conformity is simply a requirement for some ordinary common sense and impartiality. All other interests that would come into conflict with these fundamental principles should retreat, as one of the fundamental tasks of the state is the exercise of constitutionally conformal standard formation, which will be able to answer two fundamental questions: Why and for what purpose is the bill adopted and how will it contribute to the fulfilment of the fundamental constitutional functions of the State? According to the analysis and what I have at my disposal, the petitioner did not deal with the fundamental comments made by the National Sports Agency on the draft law, and he did not actually justify this position. The correctness of the proposed solution was not dealt with by the NSA and the petitioner did not submit that a quality but essentially no argument that would stand. The petitioner has completely ignored the fundamental comments and thus actually violated the legislative rules of the government that exist, although I respect that we Members of Parliament are, of course, free to do so and we can handle the legislation. But I still think it was meant to respond to fundamental remarks. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 is an obligation with regard to the points of reference referred to in paragraph 1. 1 point (a) to (c), (g) and (h) must always be discussed by those comments which have become the subject of a conflict. Of course, by presenting a comprehensive amendment, the government could no longer address this because it did not come to its turn. The state administration is characterised by a formally anchored hierarchical structure. The National Sports Agency, as another central government body, is characterised as a Monocratic State Authority, a central administrative office with partial and territorial national competence, which is the so-called organisational component of the State. There are also administrative authorities that we can call independent - they combine conflicting elements, independence and the performance of state administration. While these authorities are organisational components of the State, they are financed from the state budget, they generally have their own budget chapter, but they are not part of the hierarchy of government-controlled government and are not even responsible to the government or to any ministry or other central government authority for their activities. These include, for example, the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council or the Office for Personal Data Protection. In essence, these are the bodies set up to carry out supervisory functions and not the National Sports Agency as an executive body does not fulfil the functions of executive, in the case in point, inter alia, the preparation of programme creation and calls, evaluations, decisions on public funds in the form of subsidies. Applicants and beneficiaries of these subsidies are both de facto and de jure participants in public competitions, i.e. unilateral legal proceedings, by which the national sports agencies announcer offers a range of eligible candidates to submit applications for subsidies which are assessed, evaluated and a decision to award a subsidy is taken. One of the essential activities of the National Sports Agency is the management of administrative procedures in which a public award or non-subsidisation competition takes place. The non-publicity of the proceedings means that any third party having no procedural status or any relationship with the competent administrative authority may not participate in the proceedings. The difference from public conduct must therefore be seen, in particular, in the absence of the principle of guarantee of legality in the form of public control consisting of the unlimited possibility of participation of any person in such an act, such as a court arrangement. And by changing the organizational structure, extending the number of persons in the form of the Supervisory Commission, the Board and, above all, changing the Monocratic principle to a collegial one, according to some legal opinions, there is a disguise of the real responsibility for decision-making. That's my basic point about the thing. The complex amendment itself, because I have not yet had the opportunity to express myself, so I apologise that I may be crossing or I will always have to quote the individual provision so that I can comment on it. Therefore, Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation I'm talking about the definition of a body. I will give an example, such as participation in the University is not a sport organized or provided by a university or a part of it, including special purpose facilities for cultural and sporting activities under the Higher Education Act, but is part of university sport. So my question is, will it be supported by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, or will it be the NSA? Specific question. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is the central body of the state administration for preschool facilities, school facilities, elementary schools, secondary schools and universities, for scientific policy, research and development - I will not read the whole thing. The NSA has activities defined by the Law on promoting sport, this is § 3a new, and there is now added text that target groups of sports organisations and target groups in the field of sport without restrictions and exclusion of school and university sports. So my basic question is, how will this activity be carried out? And I would point out that this has already been described in the findings and reports of the Supreme Audit Office, and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport has been warned that it was not governed by the Sport Support Act, which required it to coordinate the government-approved concept, nor by the Government's resolution approving the concept. [[Permanent noise and restlessness in the hall.]] So the additional question: How and who will fully implement this? I see a contradiction between Section 3a and Section 4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u27	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I would like to ask the Members discussing in the hall to quiet down, even in the right. Yes, thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u28	I would like to state that the concept has been supplemented, but there is still no fundamental comment in the wording of the provisions of the competence law which the Government of the Czech Republic applied in its resolution, referring to possible competence disputes, when it can be stated that there is a duplication of competences in the field of sport. In a hidden form, the Ministry of Education tries to duplicate the conditions for school and university sport. It is therefore appropriate to ask yourself how these adjective sports differ from ordinary sports and whether you can expect some kind of infant sport in the future, a sport under the competence of the Ministry of Health, a senior sport under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or a sport at the universities of the third age - I do not think the petitioner has fully dealt with it. Resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic. The government does not consider it appropriate to transfer the gesture of school and university sport to the Ministry of Education. First of all, there is no clear line between what can be considered as support for school and higher education sport and what can be considered as support for other than school and higher education sport. From my point of view, the bill is capable of creating a competence dispute. [[9.50 hours]] Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of CRR The Council of the Agency shall be composed of the President, Vice-President and a member of the Board. On the outside, the chairman is acting; another body is the Supervisory Commission. And I would like to ask, what is the difference between the position of President, Vice-President and member? The status or powers of the President, Vice-President and member should be regulated in some way by the law. Mainly, it should adjust the status of the member, given the different pay ratings, I suppose, there should certainly be some different responsibility. But I did not find an answer in the law to this question, so what would be the responsibility and responsibility of the member in particular? Again, I refer to the Government's resolution that the government agrees that the proposed model of the organisational structure of the National Sports Agency with the establishment of a collective management body and a collective supervisory authority in the form of a supervisory commission is possible, but there are no positives in the proposed system that would be able to remedy the shortcomings mentioned in the justification of the draft law. On the contrary, from my point of view, a more complex system is set up, it can lead to more difficult operation in decision making, and after all, my previous speakers have already spoken about this lack of ability. The reasoning of the bill states that economic savings will be made in simplifying the Agency's hierarchy, and these savings will then be able to be used to pay remuneration to newly created board members. Thus, the draft law should in principle be budgetaryly neutral. However, the justification of the law should indeed be supplemented by a detailed comparison of existing and anticipated proposals. So much for the debate that was actually here when Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová spoke. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna try to speed this up some way, 'cause I can see I don't have the attention. I have a reminder about the action... I will specifically tell you, it is § 3a para. Article 4 (1) (a) n, according to which an action plan is to be submitted by 30 June of the immediately preceding calendar year at the latest. I'm just saying, if the action plan is annual, then the new one is presented in the middle of its effectiveness, which means that it cannot be known which tasks or indicators of the action plan in force will be fulfilled and which should go into the new action plan. According to the people involved, there may be total chaos in this matter. Basically, there will still be some vague action plans without evaluation. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I ask, what is it that the Agency is obliged to create appropriate mechanisms? Period, that's just the text of the law. What is meant by this mechanism? A detailed description of the cooperation is not for the quality of the Agency's functionality and its competence, but rather for the ideas that have been applied recently, in the form of interference with the programme or challenges. In fact, however much of the proposed text is non-normally misleading, and the question is to what extent it should be stated, the provision should be replaced by a clear and understandable objective. For me the optimization of activities and the creation of adequate mechanisms is actually an uninhibited provision. To those three members, that is actually the new text of Section 3b, and it is repeated all the time, what is the position of the President, Vice-President, member. The status of a member should be regulated by the law due to differences in salary valuations. In the context of legislative rules, the question of responsibility must also be asked, that is to say, ministers and heads of other central government bodies are responsible to the government for the level and timely preparation of their approved decrees, and the board - specifically who? - if there is a situation of failure to comply with § 3c para. 2 in the Sport Support Act. For non-compliance with the conditions in paragraph 3c (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f) and (f) of this Article: It is necessary to consider the situation that the Council does not need to meet, because there are three of them and all three have to meet and will therefore not be able to perform their duties and approve material falling within the competence of the Board. In this situation, it is completely absent from the provisions dealing with such a situation. I'm surprised it didn't work out on the guarantee committee in any way. For non-fulfilment of the condition referred to in § 3c para. It is necessary to consider the situation that the Board will not meet, so it will not be able to perform its duties and approve the material. And in this situation, I think that the law should be supplemented, which is why I proposed, at the outset, the procedure under Paragraph 93 (2) of the Act. 2. Now, I have a little bit of a political reminder that this provision, which ignores the fact that the performance of these functions is a highly professional and qualified activity, and I'm actually setting up two terms of office here limited in time, so you're making it a bit of a political authority. The NSA will become a political office. And when we adopted the law, we thought, above all, that it would be really for the benefit of the athletes, for the benefit of the sport. I have another question. The condition for someone to become a member of the board is that they have at least five years of experience in the management function. I'd like to ask you, in what management function, at what level? The head of the secretariat, the head of the department, the head of maintenance... 'Cause you haven't got it all worked out in any way. Next: He has experience in the field of organization and administration of sport. I want to ask Mr. Speaker, what is an organization and administration of sport? Could she be an assistant, a secretary, an archivist, some kind of assistant coach who helps out at events? It is a rather vague provision on my part again. In addition, do you realize that the National Sports Agency is an administrative office, and I wonder if this person should have experience, for example, in connection with the management of a public institution? I think this reminder of mine is also appropriate. My colleague Babka has already dealt with the quorum here, and so have I, so maybe that's the biggest problem we see in this, and I'll ask you to answer the question. Then I have such a logical point that the appeal of a member of the Supervisory Commission exists, that is, paragraph. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) b, the appeal must be justified. However, the members of the commission may be representatives of associations, body-building unity, sports clubs and, in general, all possible applicants who have the right to participate in the Council's deliberations and subsequently, as representatives of the federal organisations, submit applications for subsidies. So potential grant applicants will call off the chairman of the board. What is the answer here to this question? It's kind of a "guest throws out the chief" from my point of view. Under what conditions, then, is the commission capable of quorum? How should it be possible to consult all the Commission's documents? Will a committee be set up to monitor the viewing and record what it has been looked at? Where do they start and where does the Commission's competence end? That's my point, which may not be resolved here in plenary, but I think it's so crucial that we should return this thing to second reading. My colleague looks at me so sadly, so does my Prime Minister. I really have comments about the individual paragraphs... I'm halfway through, so I'd like to ask Mr. Speaker if he'd answer my question. He writes everything down, respect, I look forward to the colleague's reply. If I do, I'd like to step forward in some other way, but I'd like a response now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let me just recap. Two proposals were made from you: firstly - if we understand each other exactly - § 93 para. 2 to return the proposal to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, we would vote now after the general debate, and then you proposed a motion to reject the law, which we would vote at third reading. So only for the rapporteurs, so that they also record these proposals from the Member. And this is the rapporteur, Mr Haas. [[right-handedly, the appellant]] [[Mrs Mračková Vildumetz reports before the rhetoric and calls for her factual priority.]] I do not have a factual - well, that is a factual point, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u30	I'm so sorry, Mr. Vice President. I thought I pushed the button. Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to set the record straight - and I thank my honored colleague Jakub Jand for bringing me into the fact that the institution will still have the same members with the comprehensive amendment. The only thing I'm thinking about right now is that the other vice president isn't there today, that's what you confirmed today, and there's a tender for it. And now that we approve the complex changeling, he's gonna be chairman, vice-chairman and board member. So if you pick the Vice-President, then you fire him again? That doesn't make much sense to me, but maybe the MP will answer that. [[10.00 hours]] And once again, I would like to appeal to the amendment tabled by the YES movement, and that is what resonated here last time, and it has properly resonated so that the National Sports Agency is more controlled, so we have tabled this proposal that this control be the Supreme Audit Office every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u31	Yes, thank you, and now the rapporteur, Mr Karel Haas, is getting the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u32	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I thought I would only get off once, and don't worry, even if I only get off once, I really meant all the questions. So maybe it will be more than once, I only wanted to be effective once, but I am happy to oblige, after all I promised to respond, so I will be happy to do so during the course. Now I will try to answer all the questions that have been raised, and I have the comments from whom they have been heard, so the questioner should be found in this. Quorum for the quorum of the board. Please, the quorum of the board was one of the big questions when dealing with the comments of the Government of the Czech Republic. One of the main comments of the Government of the Czech Republic was directed to the budgetary responsibility of the proposal, i.e. to minimise public functions rewarded under the Paying Act, who you know the government's position. This reminder, which was one of the government's dominant comments, was sought by the group of plaintiffs I represent. After all, Jakub Janda, through the President, has already said that by reducing the number of members of the collective management body, that is, the National Sports Agency's board, to three members. At the moment we met this reminder, of course, we were wondering whether we should change the rules for quorum. In the original proposal, in the printing itself 270/0, at the five-member original proposal of the National Sports Agency's board, the quorum was actually set at three members, and we weighed very much whether to shift the quorum in any way, to shift logically - if we wanted to maintain the logic of the collective management body, that went to two. At the moment, if it shifts to a single person, it's probably not much of a collective organ anymore. The decision-making of two people did not seem entirely practical to us, whether because of the even number, which may lead to stalemate situations, so even with the risk of what you said the council might be inoperable - but I will say the insurances that are very strong - we stayed with the court for quorum on three members. The fuse box is very simple, and it was introduced here at first reading. If you read well the provisions of the law and with the exception of the obligation to justify, which was one of the well-established requirements of your ANO colleagues, the principles of appeal of the board members and members of the Supervisory Commission have not changed. The appeal is proposed in Parliament's 270 press very flexibly, it must be justified, but it can be done at any time and for any reason. In other words, the solution may seem pragmatic, but it is quite real and out of the real world in the event of the board's dysfunction, and yet we are doing it so that full time works for Czech sport as we need it - I will then get to it with questions about the current position, the vacant position of the Vice-President - so the greatest insurance is the possibility of recalling a member of the board, now I look away from other reasons for appeal or termination of the function, so this flexible possibility of appeal was on the scales, whether to comply with the dominant government comment, which we wanted, and we complied with it - logically compliance with the dominant reminder of the Czech Government had to address the quorum. And really, after deep discussions, I don't think there were many other, better solutions. That is the answer to my colleague Babka's question, through Mr President. There have been questions about education, and amendments are presented in this regard legitimately as well. It was, in a way, from my point of view and from discussions with colleagues from the ANO movement, in fact, the only point where we had a different opinion about the competence requirements for the education of members of the NSA Council. I'm going to answer exactly the same as I did at first reading. If you do research of other central government bodies with national competence, these are the central bodies defined by the law of competence, that is the existing ones - if I am not mistaken from the head, I do not have a section of the law of competence in front of me, then I have another for the answer - I think it is the 17 central government bodies with national competence, so I ask you, the competence requirements, we have really done the research and in all, say, the last decade - I have introduced here the ERÚ, the ČTÚ and so on - we have done the research and the competence requirements and requirement for higher education among the members of the central government's governing body in the requirement for a university education of at least a master's direction are in principle a uniform standard in the Czech Republic. But it is a legitimate point, it is reflected in the amendment or in the amendments of two, it will be expressed by the vote. The reason is really research into other central authorities of the state administration and the requirement of a university education at least in the Master's direction is standard. You can really compare it in other sectoral laws. The reward. I am glad that Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová performed in fact a moment ago, so I will mention it more for the record. If Parliament's 270 press, as amended by the general amendment, passes, a truly collective management body will have three members. The difference from - but, please, the existing one, and I also thought that on all platforms I explained it sufficiently, including here in plenary - the difference is enormous. To date - and this is not a criticism, it is only in the statement of fact in the two possible models - the current operation of the NSA is based on the principle of a Monocratic Authority, which means that the President of the National Sports Agency, who is even in his senses - not in the government of the Czech Republic, not in Parliament's chambers - has the appointment of Vice-Presidents of the National Sports Agency. This is also the answer to who will be appointed - I don't know, I can't know because it fully falls, it is not a political question that would be in the gesture of the government of the Czech Republic, it is presently - and we have a valid and effective wording of the law - it is a full gesture of the National Sports Agency, so the current leadership also has three members, but in fact only one, because it decides, it is indeed the head of the NSA. In order to imagine it in full numerical terms, the coefficients that Jakub Janda introduced by the comprehensive amendment - we are reducing it here - the coefficients according to the payroll law, to the level of 1.3, 1.5 and 1.8 for the President of the NSA compared to the current coefficient 2,06, so the basic salary level for 2022 is CZK 84,060. So with this seriousness, with these particular numbers, there will really be no increase in salary - in this case, not in salary, salary - requirements or salary costs for the management of the National Sports Agency. My colleague Vondráček had a number of questions. We're pushed through time, maybe even more important points, so now I can effectively do two of the following points. Firstly, I constructively refer to my colleague Vondráček, through Mr President, to the fact that the guarantee committee, including colleagues from the ANO movement - that is why I thanked it - the Guarantee Board went through this proposal 16: 0 to zero! No one stayed, no one opposed. Second information on this: the proposal was, of course, validated by the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. There was no other way that this was also a committee amendment. That's second information, please. And the third information to speed up today's negotiations - but if my colleague insists on it, I will deal with it by offering him an answer to all the questions in principle immediately after discussing this point, we are between second and third reading, and even if he could and would have the right to take advantage of the participation in the committee as I, for example, go to committees other than which I am a member, I offer him that right after discussing this point with him, I will discuss all the questions he has asked here - because I think that the questions of all the other colleagues, I apologize, they were short, in fact, they have added the question concerning whether I am wrong, the Supervisory Commission and the appeals of the members of the Supervisory Commission... so he was still a colleague of Vondráček, so if he can really respond to me, I will be very happy if this is an acceptable solution for him to make the extraordinary meeting more effective today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Mr Babka has now made a point of fact. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll load an apology. Mr Ženíšek apologizes from 11 a.m. to 14 a.m. for reasons of work. And now, Mr Babka's factual remark, will then be heard in the general debate by Mr Vondráček, who is reporting. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u34	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will only take advantage of the Prime Minister's appearance here, and I will ask again a question that I have already raised here. This means that today we are discussing an amendment to the National Sports Agency, which will significantly change its functioning. We were able to read in the press yesterday that the current President of the National Sports Agency, Filip Neusser, decided to resign by mutual agreement with the Prime Minister on 30 November, and I am interested in this question, and I asked here, Prime Minister, how the negotiations were conducted, what was the result of these negotiations, how the current amendment will have an impact, how it will take place in quotation marks of the transition period until the appointment of the NSA's new leadership and how it will affect Czech sport, how subsidies will be paid in Czech sport - because sport, Czech sport is facing major problems, really with major problems in the current energy crisis, and so on, how will this situation be dealt with in the absence of leadership in the National Sports Agency? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. The Prime Minister is referring to a point of fact. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u36	Hello, I'll answer Mr. Babek. I didn't hear his question, I heard it in my office, but I assumed that all the answers to that question were made public yesterday. But if you repeat it, of course, I'd be happy to answer it. The meeting with President Neusser, you asked how she was led. It was guided correctly and factually. What was the result? The result was that we agreed that President Neusser would cease his activities on 30 November. You also asked what this would mean for the National Sports Agency, the impact on the payment of subsidies and its functioning. This will have no direct effect, President Neusser, and the date is chosen so that it can still write the corresponding calls and there has actually been continuity. And the last question, what's it gonna be? We assume that the new President of the National Sports Agency will be appointed, and we will do this so that there is no break and that the Agency is not without leadership. Meanwhile, the amendment approval process will be under way, which I consider to be a really good solution for the future and an important solution for restoring stability and trust in our sports environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u37	Thank you and we are now returning to the general debate in which Mr Vondráček was joined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. We're all looking forward to a windfall tax, some of the members were patting heavily on the watch when I... I therefore thank the petitioner for his willingness to answer my questions, but we will not do anything about it after the second reading. I don't know, I'm glad you have that confidence that you're gonna answer all my questions, and it's gonna be okay. I do not have that conviction, which is why I would like my colleagues to support the repetition of the negotiations on the guarantee committee, which I would like to take part in for the second time. I just have a different perspective than my colleagues on the school committee. So I have two more points. You're setting up a supervisory body there, that supervisory committee, and that's a rather non-standard thing, because you've just mentioned in that post that it's a Monocratic Central Authority of the State Administration, and you're creating some hybrid, non-standard hybrid, where even this government authority has its own supervisory authority. It's not customary for state authorities. The supervisory and control activities are to be done by other bodies, either by the relevant Ministry of Finance or by the SAO. Well, that's one thing I have, conceptual. And the second one that I wanted to get to, and I've already let it be in that first post - you're setting up the National Court of Arbitration for Sport with a comprehensive proposal that has been put forward in the school committee, and that interests me a lot, because you're setting up the National Court of Arbitration for Sport here, that's such a slightly misleading designation when I look at Section 13 para. 4 of the arbitration law, and the court has no legal personality, so there is an arbitration court, but at the same time it has no legal personality because the National Sports Agency has one. So, in fact, the agency is responsible, and the arbitration findings will be issued by the sports agency. That's a thing that just isn't written in the design. It says here that the court carries out its tasks independently of the National Sports Agency and is not bound by its instructions, but if the court is to be a body of a National Sports Agency, it is hard to imagine that it will act independently. By the way, who hasn't read it, the court is supposed to decide, for example, disputes in relation to doping, in connection with disputes in all disciplinary offences. What's this about doping? There will certainly not be any disputes about compensation or the like. I think it would be worth a deeper debate - in this country, it's just a court of referee without legal personality. I think it would be in case... I think I understand the good intentions, but I don't think it was right to look at it with a purely legal perspective. I will look forward to discussing, for example, repeated discussions on the guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u39	Your speech raised a factual remark from the rapporteur. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u40	Mr. Speaker, and that's okay, it's more like just for the record. Please, I volunteered with the facts so I wouldn't really prolong it and be limited by those two minutes. Mr Vondráček, through Mr President, answers those two questions that he has now dominated at the end of his speech. The Supervisory Commission - the claim that this is a non-standard thing in the Czech legal environment. I beg you, who you are Members, I am only a Member for a year, many of you have voted much more often than I have on members of various supervisory bodies of state institutions, state funds, in particular state funds, but also about the supervisory or control body, but this is just a term, besides the managing and supervisory body, for example, in an institution such as the General Health Insurance Corporation, or I refer to it. To the claim that the supervisory or supervisory authority - let us not be synonymous with this now - is a non-standard in Czech law and with Czech state institutions, it certainly does not correspond to reality, see the supervisory board of state funds, see the Supervisory Board of the General Health Insurance Corporation. So much for the Supervisory Committee. And... I'm sorry for getting stuck. National arbitration court for sport. Please, he's not responding to reality again, and I'm sorry it sounds like mentoring right now - we're not setting up a new barrel. Sudiště National arbitration court for sport exists. The reason why it appears in the law is because of the fact that today's National Court of Arbitration for Sport, which is already in the structure of the National Sports Agency, is not enshrined by law in the Czech legal environment. That's the difference. This barrel exists, so I dare say that the procedure really is quite correct. That's the answer to the last two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, too. I'm gonna make one apology. Mr Flek apologizes from 10:30 to 13:00 for work reasons. I'm going to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for an interest in the final words of the plaintiff and rapporteur? It's not like that. [[10.20 hours]] And now we should vote on the proposal made by Mr Vondráček, namely that I have noted the proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation under Paragraph 93 (1). 2. I'm the one who got my colleagues to come to the O.R. Yes, I'm registering the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log back in with your I.D. cards. The number of Members applied for has stabilized and I will repeat what we will be voting on. We will vote on the proposal made at second reading by Mr Vondráček, namely the proposal to return the law to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93 para. 2. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number three, 150 Members have been enrolled, 52 voted in favour. The motion was denied. We can therefore move on to the opening of a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the general debate must always be justified. The following Members have taken the floor: first Mrs Šebelová, whom I will ask to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby refer to my two amendments, which are referred to as House documents 1510 and 1511 which I have explained in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Next is Mr Babka, Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. In a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for our joint amendment number 1530, which releases an obligation for a member of the Board of the NSA, Vice-President and Chairman to have higher education, or two amendments. One introduces the obligation to have a bachelor's degree and the other to have a high school education with a high school diploma. The two amendments are listed under number 1530 and I hereby subscribe to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Next in line, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 1535, which I have already mentioned in the general debate, and it is for the National Sports Agency to be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u47	Thank you very much. This is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u48	Thank you very much for the floor. In a detailed debate, I am reporting to the amendment under the number of House document 1532. It is merely the work of legislative technical adaptations in agreement with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one's coming forward, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for an interest in the final words - the rapporteur, the plaintiff? It's not like that. I will ask the rapporteur if he has seen any other proposals that we would now vote at the end of the second reading? This is not the case, we have dealt with all of them, and I am therefore ending the second reading of this proposal, and I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur for their work. So I'm done discussing item one. Let's continue with point number
