ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 263/ - First reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa. Please, Minister, take the floor. [[Member Juchelka requests a performance with priority rights.]] Pretty please, with priority rights? I would therefore suggest that we give the floor to the Minister first and then give the floor to the rapporteur, would you agree with that, Mr Member? Please, you're the rapporteur? You're not the rapporteur? With priority rights for the club? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm sure she'll let you know to the president of Schillerová that at this point, because she's not excused, I'll be here with priority rights to perform today before she gets back, me. We are getting into a situation here, and I am saying this just before the opening speech by the Minister of Culture, when we should de facto in some way, as the Chamber of Deputies, honor values, some principles that really stand on our democracy. Those principles and values are not only those that are written, but also those that are not written. The ones we'll all agree on here in general. Those that somehow are presented historically for several decades. Unfortunately, this government coalition violates the unwritten rules on which our democratic values have also been standing since the beginning, even within Czech Television as an institution. We certainly remember the scandalous vote on six members of the Czech Television Council, which was not made by secret ballot, because the coalition of the government did not get enough votes, but was made by scandalous acclamation precisely for the purpose of keeping an eye on each other by individual Members who voted. So that there would happen to be no rebel in government coalitions who would vote against one of those candidates chosen by some of the members of the government coalition. At this point, we are facing another such violation of unwritten rules. And that's because I'm, like, the chairman of the election committee for the election committee...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u4	... designates Mr Martin Kolovratník as rapporteur for this press. A person who has been active in the public service media for decades. He was the director of Pardubice Czech Radio, he was actually anchored there, I would say, about 20 years old, I think, on Czech Radio. He worked for a long time both in Prague and in Pardubice. And I have determined it, because it is an important House press, as well as a counterpole to the government coalition, so that he can be the rapporteur. Unfortunately, since there is an unwritten rule that has been here for decades, it has been broken since I am in history, and I have been here for the fifth year, it has not been noticed that the Organizing Committee would simply replace the rapporteur despite the chairman of the committee that will appoint him. Maybe it's a new policy for this government coalition. Perhaps at this point, we will have to meet with the fact that when the committee chairman and committee itself appoint a rapporteur, the organizational committee automatically cancels it and puts the rapporteur there. The one who actually has the right to do so will be absolutely in control of the press, because it is no more than a priority right - to take it away from the opposition. Because the rapporteur has priority rights. And I am so glad that the House President, Mrs Markéta Adamová, is sitting here, who could explain to us how this is possible and why this has happened. Why the unwritten rule suddenly broke when a few Members come to her as President and she leaves per rollam, that is, by e-mail, to approve another Member as rapporteur despite the decisions I have as Chairman of the Committee. And I wonder if this right here is really going to be part of this new political culture. Because it seems to me at least, because I haven't been informed, rude. And I can say that at this point, I'm really considering it, and I'm going to do that, and I'm going to propose to Mr Martin Kolovratník, at this moment, that he be the rapporteur here for this House press. I ask the House of Honor to give back the election committee president's decision. In order for the rapporteur of this press to be back an expert on the public service media, who has been here for the third term, is on the electoral committee, worked in the public service media, he knows this issue. And I ask the honourable House and Madam President to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to Mr Martin Kolovratník. But maybe the President of the House will come forward and explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u5	Okay, so we have noted the proposal to amend the rapporteur, and it is that he is no longer the rapporteur of Mr Lacina, and he is Mr Kolovratník. According to the decision of the Chairman of the Election Committee. I will vote on this proposal. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm gonna sing. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I've noticed an interest in the check-out. I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna need you to log in with your I.D. cards. I'll read the apologies before the number of entries settles. He apologizes Benešík Ondřej within 14 hours for work reasons, Horák Jiří from 20 hours for work reasons, Kott Josef from 9.15 for health reasons and Kubík Jan on the whole day of the hearing for working reasons. And I have one more announcement, Mr. králíček cancels his apology within 19 hours. Yes? Well, thank you. We would now proceed to the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 4, 126 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 53, against 59. The motion was denied. Please, with priority rights, Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Here you can see where it's going all day, unfortunately. Because the government coalition simply does not have one Member who can honor the Member with pride and unwritten rules that are one of the pillars of democracy. You're gonna let each other control you when you're voting on those acclamation personnel. At this point, you're letting yourself be controlled by who's for such a person, I'd say, a little something like a change in the rapporteur, and you want to simply and simply roll the opposition. You've got most of it here. I'm happy for you, of course, but I'm sure it'll turn on you sometime. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. We would now continue, and so please, on behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u9	I'm sorry, Minister. Ladies, please calm down. If you have any funny business, please deal with them in the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, let me start by making a very brief introduction to the draft law amending the laws governing the media of public services, that is, Czech Television and Czech Radio. The Government has prepared this bill to fulfil its commitment under the programme statement, including the second Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Senate, in the election system of members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. In addition to this system change, the proposal for an adjustment for bodies which, under those laws, propose candidates for members of these councils. The legislation in force provides that the proposals of these candidates may be submitted by organisations and associations representing the legitimate interests of the company. The draft law maintains this assumption but, in order to strengthen the representative element of such entities, lays down a time condition for their existence of at least 10 years. Such an assumption shall ensure the representativeness of the candidates proposed to the members of the Board and shall exclude cases where those bodies are established purely in order to nominate candidates. The draft law also repeals the collective appeal of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council, thereby substantially strengthening their stability. The Act is already designed, in its up-to-date version, in such a way that only individual members of the board are elected and dismissed, with which the appeal of the whole body is contrary. These changes are equally proposed in both the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. In addition, in the Czech Television Act, the proposal increases the number of members of the Czech Television Council to 18 members in order to take account of the allocation of positions in the Council between the two chambers of Parliament. In addition, the draft law also includes a technical amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the House, which concerns only the designation of bodies proposing candidates for board members. I would like to stress by concluding my introductory words that the transitional provisions of the bill guarantee that the existing members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council will properly complete their term of office. The Senate will therefore be involved in the election of the members of these councils gradually. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies release this bill to second reading. Thank you for your attention, and I will be ready to respond and answer your questions during undoubtedly rich and rancid discussions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, Minister. I ask now that the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Lacina, take the floor. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll allow you to begin by wishing you good morning, or good morning, as for whom. I would like to sum up from what Minister of Culture Martin Baxa has now presented, the main changes brought about by the draft amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. The members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are elected by both chambers of Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Individual members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are responsible for their duties in the Chamber of Parliament which elected them. The number of members of the Czech Television Council increases from 15 to 18, of which the Chamber of Deputies elects 12 members of the Czech Television Council and the Senate elects 6 members of the Czech Television Council. In the case of Czech Radio, the number of members is maintained to 9, of which the Chamber of Deputies elects 6 members of the Czech Television Council and 3 members of the Czech Television Council. At the same time, this amendment repeals the possibility of calling off the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council by double non-approval of the annual report, as a whole. The minimum duration of the existence of legal entities proposed by candidates for the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council is set for 10 years. I'd like to say there's another interesting moment. The Chamber of Deputies is quite historically giving up some of its competences in favour of the upper chamber of our Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening a general debate to which the following Members have made themselves known with priority rights. First of all, President Tomio Okamura will appear. Then if Mr Juchelka is interested, who is representing President Schillerová today and will also speak with the opinion of the MP. Furthermore, with priority rights, Rozvoral is applied for. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, before I give you my word, I'll read an apology. Josef Flek apologizes until 11 o'clock for work reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the government amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio has one goal: the government coalition Petr Fiala wants to politically dominate the public media and thus exploit the licence fees of all citizens in its political favor. This is the emergence of a new totalitarianism by the Fialův Government, in which most government parties are more or less involved in organised crime in the STAN movement. Now, at least two government parties are also involved in organized crime in Brno, namely ODS and KDU-ČSL, in terms of housing purchases. The government wants to deny the principle of the election of Councillors of Czech Television and as a bonus strengthen the role of the Senate, which the vast majority of citizens of our country consider unnecessary. Therefore, only a few thousand votes are elected by senators for the public's disinterest. The fact that the draft law for the takeover of Czech Television and Czech Radio by the current government guarantee was filed by a Senator for STAN, a senator elected for a mafia project, makes it clear that this is really about something against public interests. What inspired government policies to change the law on the election of councillors of Czech Television? The situation around the Czech Television Council escalated last spring, when MPs elected allegedly controversial candidates in a secret election, who were only controversial because they did not have views like the current five-police government, and these new councillors began to control the economics of Czech television and its balance, which does not appeal to the parties of the Fialův Government and to their connected businessmen and activists. To understand each other, the Czech Television Act clearly states that significant regional, political, social and cultural currents are to be represented in the Czech Television Council. In order for Czech Television to be objective once in the future, it is necessary to do its utmost to ensure that its supervisory body represents not one, but indeed the main currents of opinion. [[9.30 hours]] At the moment, Czech Television is in many ways the only one for Brussels ideology. And as much as you fellow Members may like it today, it may change in the future, and you will no longer like it. Therefore, we should try not to strengthen television's unilaterality, but to weaken and democratize television so that an opinion balance is ensured in accordance with the law. The problem is also that the current Council of Czech Television does not really have any analytical department, it does not have the money or people to effectively control all the problems in implementing the Czech Television Act. In fact, its reports often prepare the management of Czech television, which is absurd when the controller evaluates himself. I understand that it suits you in the government of Petr Fiala from ODS, as well as the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bax from ODS. This means suppressing opposing views, dehonesting political opponents, their media liquidation, which is a clear sign of totalitarianism. And by the way, that's exactly what fascists did. I understand that in Petr Fiala's ODS government it suits you, but simply suppressing opposing opinions is simply not a democracy. All of us who have been here longer know how members of the council are actually elected here in the House, and they are different councils. Despite being apolitical, they are elected by the agreement of the government parties. But that would be cleaner and more transparent, so that the parties do not put secret agents in their advice, in quotation marks, and would propose directly to their candidate, as is the case with the Radio and Television Council, RRTV. This would really and transparently bring to the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio representatives of the main currents of opinion in our Republic, which undoubtedly represent elections to the Chamber of Deputies. [[Advice]] Of course, I consider the fact that no one currently has the opportunity to effectively enforce the objectivity and balance of Czech television to be fundamental and more fundamental than the members of the board. This does not exist, and so do many analyses, including some analyses by the Radio and Television Council. This year, when the current Council of Czech Television demanded the Czech Television's leadership to review the number of invitations to Tomio Okamura to the Václav Moravec series, where I have not been invited for eight years, the Czech Television refused to provide this information to the Council because it would be confirmed that I was not invited fraudulently once every eight years because Czech Television is trying to censor my views. It is nothing more than a misuse of the licence fees of SPD voters to promote the views of the presidents of other political parties, who prefer the leadership of Czech television. That's something that needs to change. And here we see exactly who acts democratically and who has fascinating tendencies. Petr Fiala's five-calice is silent because it suits her that the Czech Television fees are being abused, and she likes it when the opinion opponent is not on the main Czech Television talk show. He's quiet about it. That's fine with her. That suits the totalitarian thinking, but instead of being heard and said, that's wrong. Based on the fact that they all pay licence fees, so all the chairmen of parliamentary parties or others should be invited in a balanced manner, I do not know that, but certainly those of parliamentary parties, because the legitimacy here is given. But the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa is silent because of course the situation suits him, the ODS also suits these totalitarian manners, that is to silence opinion opponents, abuse of licence fees. And I would just point out to the audience why I'm talking about the Minister of Culture Martin Bax - because he has the Czech Television Act. He set it up. He proposes this totalitarian law, he proposes the abuse of licence fees, he proposes the political domination of Czech television and he is silent about it when Czech television does not broadcast balancedly. Of course, with such a vain notion that the Czech Republic might be able to get his hands on it, but I think it works a little differently on Czech television. [[TV?]] The moment you dislike yourself, Minister, they'll take you to the party as well. But the important thing is not to sell out at the very beginning. This means that I want to say that this is why I am talking about the Minister here, because at the moment that the chair of the parliamentary party, elected by over half a million voters, is not invited by Václav Moravec and the Czech Television to the main discussion programme, and nobody is concerned about it, so we can see the undemocratic direction your government, the government of Petr Fiala, is heading. Fifty-eight percent of citizens don't trust Czech TV, yet they have to pay for it. This results from a recently published survey of citizens' confidence in the institution carried out by STEM. The survey further shows that only 9 percent of citizens believe in Czech television. Here it is also a moment where you need to pause, because I personally say that I like Czech television. I grew up there for many years on many shows, before entering politics, I always liked to go there, and I just... After all, I was surprised, a little with a smile, when the Czech Television in December last year on a sort of Christmas show recapitulated my first live performance on Czech Television. It was, it was the so-called One-Twenty, predecessor of Events, comments, and it was in February 1995. That means 27 years ago. 27 years ago, I first performed live on Czech TV. I was 23 years old. That means, it's really an institution with which my life has long been partly connected, and I've been on those shows, you might say, half my life. But all the more I regret that, after joining politics, it turned out that the news shows, some of the activists that are there, aren't actually making a balanced move, and there's abuse of some of the programs. I'm not saying everyone, there's a lot of decent editors, there's a lot of workers who... On the contrary, it bothers them and burns them, the situation, the activist editors, for which they are released today, because of course the political scene is jammed and does not want to increase the licence fees, because just a few activists are taking advantage of the programmes for their personal ego and for their personal political beliefs. I mean Mr. Wollner, Mrs. Fridrichová, Mr. Moravec. Because of these three people, the employees of Czech Television are now being released, that Czech TV is said to have no money. So she's got enough money, isn't she, the budget is, I guess, about seven billion, but of course it's about how and how the money is used. This means that 58 percent of citizens today, according to STEM's survey, do not trust the Czech Television, which they have to pay for. And I would expect - but true, because I know Minister Baxa when he wasn't a minister, I'm afraid I don't expect you to, because you're very personal and very offensive and you've repeatedly lied on Czech television that, for example, the SPD was part of the last government coalition, so these lies that I've seen live - how can a lying minister actually be a minister? At the same time, we all know that we were not part of any coalition. We were the opposition party like you in the last parliamentary term. And you, Minister Baxa, have repeatedly lied on the Czech TV show, I have seen it with my own eyes, when you were on the show where your opponent was our vice-chairman at Radek Rozvoral Club, so as Minister of Culture, you lied, you lied, I quote, you lied, and you said on the show, I saw it with my own eyes. I didn't believe my eyes because you were such a liar, that's not what I expected when you said the SPD was part of the last government coalition. We weren't in any coalition. We didn't vote once for the trust of the past government. We have not once voted for the budget of the previous government as well as the ODS. The only, I think, fundamental thing that we and the government coalition, respectively, voted with the YES movement, and together with the ODS, of course, that was the vote where YES, ODS and SPD voted together, so was the abolition of the supergross wage. So if that's why you were in the government coalition, then that's a strange rhetoric. [[9.40 hours]] If your current Prime Minister and then Vice-President of the House of Commons, Petr Fiala, who was elected as Vice-President of the House movement, was therefore part of the government coalition, then either tell the whole story or please don't lie to me, then you have really lost my complete trust. Maybe we can explain it sometime, if you're interested, but you can't tell a flagrant lie like that. I understand half-truth. I'm used to everything in politics, but lying live, and you even lied like that twice, and I remember that, so you let me down right at the beginning. So it wasn't right. But why am I saying that 58% of citizens do not believe Czech television? And now, Minister Baxa, Minister of Culture of the ODS, your task should be to increase the confidence in Czech television. That is why I have also talked about the fact that I personally have nothing against Czech TV. On the contrary, there are Czech TV news editors who, in my opinion, are professionals. I will not name them to give them the kiss of death when Okamura praises someone, but I am simply convinced that they are trying to make work balanced, that it is simply in accordance with the law, and it certainly cannot be flattered that perhaps the entire Czech television would be wrong. Absolutely not. That's why I'm saying, I'm also talking about my history with the Czech Television, with the institution itself. Of course, I have absolutely nothing against her, nor against Czech Radio, where I spent hundreds of hours before entering politics, hundreds of hours literally in various shows in total. So... and I've always liked the atmosphere there, too. However, following the entry into politics, it turns out that there are also people who actively abuse their position and prefer the currents with which they agree rather than respect the fact that the licence fees are paid by voters of all, all political parties. That is, I wanted to say that it would be good, Minister, if you focused on increasing trust, and you have the public media, Minister of Culture, Baxa. To increase citizens' confidence in public media. I think it would be nice for those workers, as well as for the management of the public media, if half the people didn't swear at them, or even half the people didn't trust them, but to try to increase that trust together. This is a goal that I would like to promote, increase confidence in the public media so that everyone can find themselves on those shows and see their currents and discuss things. Well, your bill of law, which is presented here by the government coalition of Petr Fiala, is going in exactly the opposite direction. I'll take it further, of course. You are going exactly in the direction of concrete Czech Television and Czech Radio in that direction to broadcast only pro-government programmes, to broadcast basically pro-government opinions, to bully opinion opponents, possibly censorship and silence. After all, I've already talked about Václav Moravec. Basically, to make it concrete. As they did in totalitarianism, we had a totalitarian regime until 1989, only from books I know what Goebbels did after Hitler started. That's exactly the way you do it, the way you push around and design government five-calibers. So when I say this simply so that everyone can understand it, you propose that those councillors no longer vote for Czech Television, the 15 councillors, so that they no longer vote for only the Chamber of Deputies, which has 60% participation in elections, when elected to the Chamber of Deputies, that is, it has the highest legitimacy, represents by far the most citizens and represents basically all the major currents of opinion, you no longer want it to be elected this democratically and that it is printed into the Council as far as possible by the distribution of the Chamber of Deputies according to how the people determine in the elections - that is important to emphasise. But you want a third of the councilmen to vote for the Senate, where you have a majority, because citizens are not interested in the Senate elections, and often the second round is about 10%. So citizens do not consider the Senate as legitimate as the Chamber of Deputies. And because here in the Chamber of Deputies, this year, when the election of the Czech Television Council was taking place, you failed to afford your councillors there, because you could not agree on specific names in the coalition, so you had to make a public vote here in the form of North Korea, which is an absolutely undemocratic matter in the Chamber of Deputies, when you were at the council elections, that was never there, so because when it was a secret vote, you had in your ranks disobedient Members, or democratically-minded Members who voted according to their conscience and consciousness, so you voted here, and we all remember that, this year's public choice, so that the leadership of the five-wheelers could actually publicly check whether or not all of your Members voted obediently. Because you suggested such controversial names that even five-calice members of the government could not be identified. So you made the exact North Korean choice, the totalitarian choice, so that whoever wouldn't happen to vote on the dictation of the leadership of your five-calice party, so that he could immediately be persecuted to be afraid to vote on his conscience. This has also indicated ways of thinking the government's five-calice. But now, actually, after this experience, when you were planning to take over the Czech Television this year, and it started to squeak because you have some democratically thinking Members in your ranks, obviously they found themselves in a minority, so you actually want to transfer part of the Senate election, where you have a clear majority at the moment, to insure those councillors who will come to your hand and then watch Czech TV, they will be watching Czech Television, those councillors of Czech Television, just as you want them to really broadcast what the government lines are, and, on the contrary, to keep quiet about it when some activist editors such as Marek Wollner or Nora Fridrichová or Václav Moravec, they will either censor or perscussion for you uncomfortable opposition. This means, specifically, it is the SPD, including, for example, the YES movement, we are here two opposition parties. So you can see that I'm fair, of course I'm talking about another side, which I think also concerns. Well, frankly, that's the point of why you're suggesting this, it has nothing to do with democracy. A moment ago, an editor of an important media asked me why we are opposed to having it in the Senate, if even in the Senate, the SPD may have a majority and so on. And I answered it -- but that's why, even if it ever was, we're not a party that bends the law by who has the majority and who doesn't. That's exactly what totality is. That's exactly the totalitarian government manners. We don't need the SPD, we don't feel like we want to bend the laws our way so that we can politically control public media. It's just not in us, these feelings. We don't have these tastes. The government's five-calibers have these appetites. That is why we explained at the press conference that this question is not even relevant to the situation in the SPD. We want democracy. We want freedom. And the most fun of all is when they talk about freedom, which is still the government's five-calice, Petr Fiala, patronizing with freedom and democracy, but it is you who fear the most freedom and democracy. Of course, I come across, for example, how persistently you reject the referendum law. For example. That, of course, is completely, I would say, a significant moment in the behavior of a government five-wheeler. Let's go back to why people don't believe in Czech TV. I wish, and I stress again, that the citizens of Czech television should believe. I want that to be the case. But I am actually convinced that's not what your proposal is about. I think it is precisely to reduce the trust in Czech television that hundreds of its workers, or thousands of workers on Czech television, do not deserve that. [[9.50 hours]] I think they deserve that most of them certainly do a good job. I know a lot of people there that I know before entering politics, make them cameramen, but let them be some editors, but that's not something to talk about, because they're afraid that you might not say that, because they'd already be threatened with bullying. They're already worried that if they said that they knew Okamura, we're even seeing each other from that time, we were visiting at home for example, and if they said that, they're afraid of bullying the government's five-wheeler, they're actually afraid of bullying today. And that's how we've worked it out since 1989, that people are afraid to even talk about their friends in employment, so that they're not perspirated from people like the five-calice government. And I think it's a really scary thing. That's a scary thing to do. That's scary. Again, I am convinced that the vast majority of Czech TV workers are decent people who would like to do their job in peace and would like to work in a fully respected institution. But like I said, your proposal just doesn't go for it. He's heading for the opposite. And the way your proposal divides society, that's exactly what it says. You're splitting up the company. You're splitting up the company at all costs. At all costs, you're turning one against another instead of leaving the law as it is, because it's a functional law with which there are no problems. The only ones who had problems with the current Czech Television Act were you yourselves this year, I was talking about when your Members did not want to obediently vote for your proven candidates. But other than that, there's no problem with the law. And certainly in a situation where millions of citizens of the Czech Republic have thrown your government, the government of Petr Fiala, into poverty, you have thrown millions of citizens into a situation where they do not have money, that they are really getting into huge economic problems... and thousands of companies are in trouble, they are in danger of being fired, some have already started firing - so the priority for the government of Petr Fiala is not to help Czech citizens and companies. I want to stop at this moment, too. It's not. It is not a priority for you simply to help citizens and Czech companies and Czech citizens, but for you is the priority of controlling Czech television in order to get into the hands of public media, as the biggest totalitarians, the greatest dictators, have done, so that is what you are now trying to do. So instead of helping citizens, you deal with your own anchoring at the political troughs and at the cost of the abuse of public media, which are paid by all citizens of the Czech Republic or dealers. Of course your priorities, since we already have November, it's not just the control of Czech television. Looking back this year, you guys basically had four priorities this year after the election. Four priorities that the media has clearly noted and the citizens have recorded. And everyone remembers that, which four priorities are the priorities of Petr Fiala's government this year here in the Chamber of Deputies. First, Ukraine comes first. Not a Czech citizen in the first place, but Ukraine in the first place, that's your priority. Eight ministers of the government of Petr Fiala moved to Kiev in full formation yesterday, essentially half of the government, the government acted in Kiev instead of working hard to help Czech citizens with expensive energy, so there you discussed billions to restore Ukraine. And you also discussed other migrants from Ukraine. The priority number two that resonated here in the House, and let me just remind you, because that's the first one you came to the Chamber of Deputies with, that was the pandemic law. That means, although there is no pandemic here, and as I have warned, it is not here, and we have autumn already, we have November, exactly my words have come up, so you are basically in your attempt to control unconstitutionally - in my opinion, unconstitutionally - to control people's lives contrary to the constitution and to limit fundamental human rights and freedoms of people, so here you have made a hard effort to enforce the pandemic law, which, of course, the SPD has built up, and we have tried our best to defend it here, but there are only 20 out of 200 of 200, so of course we have tried to defend it by all political means in accordance with the law, so for you was the priority of the pandemic law. That was Minister Válek of the TOP 09 who showed up, said there was a pandemic coming in the fall, but she didn't. And if she does, we have other laws here that are applicable. There's no need for a pandemic law here. That was your second priority. This means nothing to citizens again, nothing to improve the standard of living of citizens. The third thing you came up with was a correspondence choice, when you announced as a priority in the middle of the year, or in the spring after that pandemic law, that your priority is to introduce a correspondence choice. Again, nothing that would improve the standard of living of Czech citizens. Not a penny extra for Czech citizens. And now we're arguing about a correspondence choice that the SPD rejects because it can cause manipulation and fraud. And I said, I beg you, help the citizens with the expensive. It'll be too late. And you didn't bring any solution. You have completely abandoned Czech citizens and Czech companies and the priority after the pandemic law and the parallel priority with Ukraine was the correspondence choice for you. In the end, you failed to enforce this because of the obstruction of the opposition. And I'm applying to them because I don't want a correspondence choice or a pandemic law. So you failed to enforce it for the presidential election. Of course, I have no illusion that you will now try to make a choice in the Chamber of Deputies for further elections, because your preferences are falling, so you also need to change the electoral law, not just the Czech Television Act. You want to bend it now, that's why we're here today, that's why you called an emergency meeting. That's why you even called an emergency meeting. I would expect an emergency meeting to be convened, and we have tried repeatedly as the SPD here to help citizens and businesses to convene an emergency meeting with a price increase. No, you don't care. You don't care! You are only interested in controlling as much as possible, the public media, taking advantage of the licence fees of all citizens. You are simply interested in the correspondence choice, so that you can simply keep yourself close to the corsets with various possible hankers, because you are already losing that trust with citizens in the Czech Republic. Maybe you can get it back, it's three years before the election, we don't know. Of course, I say that every time I say that it's one time up, one time down. And I've never laughed at anyone, and I want to point out who had the preferences downstairs, because I've already been 1.5 percent myself in the pre-last term, so I've been there myself, and I know how uncomfortable the situation is. And I wouldn't want to experience it again. I'm just saying, one down, one up. And we'll see. And now, in fact, the fourth priority, you have the control of Czech television. And I forgot one more of your priorities. It's actually up to date right now at this very moment, and that's because you've decided to raise your politicians' salaries. Yes, that is also the priority of Petr Fiala's five-calice government. While here lies the SPD proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term, you said you didn't want it, and the salaries of politicians will increase because here you have a majority in the House. So these are just government five-calice priorities for the first year of governance, while our SPD priorities are helping people get more expensive. Another priority is not to involve the Czech Republic in war. As Prime Minister Petr Fiala said here in the spring, Prime Minister Petr Fiala told us that the Czech Republic is at war. Don't let him lie. Don't lie because the Czech Republic is not at war. Don't let him drag us to war, don't scare us, stop scaring us, stop breaking up the company. So these are the priorities. Really this, like, that you want to politically control Czech TV, that's really very, I'd say, bad priority that we can't agree with, and that's why we're going to be talking here for a long time. And I am not ashamed because we want Czech television to work democratically, so that it is Czech television for all citizens, for all dealers, not just for exponents of the government's five-calice Petr Fiala. [[10.00 hours]] So why - let's take a closer look - why, according to the survey carried out by STEM, 58% of citizens do not believe Czech television. And it's a shame. Well, no wonder. Because recently, for example, testimony has surfaced that the Czech News Agency's editor-in-chief Marek Wollner is probably purposefully manipulated, and it seems that Wollner has been covering up the case of organized crime, corruption and the STAN Mafia all along. From licence fees paid by Wollner should, in my opinion, immediately end up on TV. The editor of the Czech News Agency Markéta Dobiášová, who worked for the Czech News Agency for the Czech News Agency, gave a public statement - I quote: Marek Wollner, colleagues, for what reason the Czech News Agency has not published information about Hlubuček's cases for almost three years, we do not have the same opinion. The pressures of the organized group around Hlubuček, developers, unfortunately also former journalists in the service of STAN - here is the question of who it was, if Mr. Lacina here is the rapporteur, because you are a former journalist and you are STAN, you are Vice-President of STAN, I don't know. That's not what he's saying in the quote, if you've pushed. Maybe it'd be good to answer that. - So these pressures were enormous on the CT. I've invested this, too, pointing to the link between interest groups. Potential of case in Lysolaje in conjunction with other business of urban lucrative land under baton Hlubčka a spol. He was great, writes Dobiášová. And I continue with what the editor of the Czech News Agency Markéta Dobiášová writes: Not only Lysolaje, but also the circumstances of the sale of land at the metro Palmovka in Holešovice, we covered everything with our colleague Adéla Paclíková. And it was worth publishing gradually because it was a large lobbyist group linked to high policy. So, in order that my journalistic work could not be questioned in the future, I handed Marek Wollner and Marek Wollner the script to my store from Czech Television and left Mark Wollner by email exactly 28. 11. 2019 at 22.58. I'm sure he'd be happy to provide it himself, writes editor Markéta Dobiášová. The case of the removal of lucrative urban land in Lysolaje Hlubuček from the STAN movement, their suspicious sale without a selection procedure for a pre-selected developer, was all in the script. It's standing. It described the tricks in which the land was sold using the opinion of the infamous Equita expert institute, which was not to be used in the state administration to sell the land at all. Similarly, the script describes the pressures that Petr Hlubuček and his people practiced on us in the Czech Republic, stated. I don't know if Marek Wollner read the script. Reports were usually approved in the editing room, but if he did and the script didn't seem good, then nothing prevented him from being a dramaturgist, editor-in-chief from processing the information otherwise himself or another reporter. All the recorded materials, hidden recordings and information, including the script, remained in the editor's office. They're the property of the CT. I wrote to Marek Wollner a few months after I left in mutual communication, asking him to make the case with the team, that it's a shame that I'd be in her drawer if I could help, I'd be watching. He said I couldn't. It didn't go that way. Stopping the investigation into the case is entirely in the competence of editor-in-chief Marek Wollner. I confess, I was surprised that the Czech News Agency did not use long-term recorded and verified facts and information even after the media arrest of Hlubuček and his associates. The kauza of Lysolaj was published in this context as the first editors of the News. It's not up to me to evaluate why at least the Lysolaean case was taken by the Czech News Agency. I'm pretty clear from the start. STAN's case was a case that pointed to the link between developers, politicians, the way in which public property was handled. I haven't stopped watching her, and for the past six months, about six months, I've been overseeing how she's being processed by students of journalism at Charles University. I think they did great. We'll publish the inFact in a few days, Dobiášová finished. And I ask, for what reason did Wollner cover up organized crime in the STAN movement? And by the way, it is the STAN movement here that is proposing this law for a government coalition. Mr Lacina for the STAN movement. So you really need to ask. And this is where the circle gradually closes: why is the STAN movement, in fact, proposing this at this point in time, essentially the entire government coalition? Because, as we know, there's been an increase in the case with the organized crime and the increase in the organized association, which are police quotes, that's not what Okamura invented. I wouldn't dare say that without the police quoting it, that's what the police would call him. That's actually why Mr. Lacina here, a member of the STAN movement, is sitting two metres next to me, so here you are pushing this bill. You have even opposed Mr Juchelka's chair for the YES movement, you have changed the rapporteurs to make sure of all of this, precisely to Mr Lacina of the STAN movement. And now the question is whether, in the first place, Marek Wollner didn't have any personal benefits when he stopped the organized crime case like that. Well, I hope everything's under investigation. But most importantly, let's say, and why I'm talking about this whole thing here, I think it's becoming increasingly logical for the audience, why the STAN movement and why the ODS, which now has big problems in Brno, when its politicians in Brno are involved in this organized crime case about buying city flats together with KDU-ČSL policies, with Petr Hladík, who you're trying to promote to the Minister for the Environment. Who has a sealed office, the police sealed his office and took his cell phone and laptop, so it's actually closing now, why in my opinion do you want to control the Czech TV so you can get it under control, the broadcast. But it's just mean. It's not democratic. It's just wrong. I would, of course, like to ask again, because here we have Mr Lacina from the STAN movement, and he is the vice-chairman of the whole STAN movement, so if you can clarify whether you would then also go on the microphone of what Mrs Markéta Dobiášová thought, and she would certainly offer an answer to ask her, but I would like to ask if you can 100% disprove that you were not the one who was the former journalist in the service of STAN, and which created the pressure around the organized group. I would be very interested, Mr Lacina, through the President. Because I don't know all the STAN MPs, but I know you're a former journalist, and if you're the only journalist in the STAN MP, then it would be about you. So I'm very interested in whether - and according to my information you're very active behind the scenes, just about the media, and of course I have more information, where and how you're active, so I'm very interested that you could disprove it on the microphone that it was never you who, as a former journalist, would try to influence the case in your relationship with Czech Television. And silence, of course, will mean consent. That means, I've just been marked that I wanted to ask, but I didn't even know you'd be the rapporteur. [[10.10 hours]] Otherwise, let's move on. The SPD movement in this situation, when unfortunately it is moving in this direction, so we must say frankly that we are promoting the abolition of licence fees, because we want Czech Television and Czech Radio to be financed directly from the chapter of the state budget under the control of the Supreme Audit Office, as is the case with other institutions that manage citizens' money. The Fialův Government is attempting to complete the political domination of Czech Television and Czech Radio by changing the law. Members of the SPD will block the adoption of this proposal by all legal means, because we are promoting freedom and democracy. We reject the totalitarian manners of the Fialův Five-calice. What the government coalition of the SPOLU is presenting here is the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates and STAN, a fundamental change in the way of the election of the supervisory councils of these public media, when the parties of the government coalition want to legalize a third of the Senate's members in the future, while now only the House elects them. This is totally unacceptable for the SPD, because, as I have explained, this will be the purpose of politicizing these control councils, because the Senate has no legitimacy or trust of citizens, and individual senators are elected by about 10% of the voters in their constituency, representing a total minority of the public. The only body most representative of the distribution of political forces by the public is the House. That is why she is the only one to vote for members of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Councils, in my opinion, because it is meant to be representatives of all citizens in the control of public media. The Fialův Government is trying to complete the political domination of Czech Television and Czech Radio with this bill. Members of the SPD will block the adoption of this proposal by all legal means, because, as I said, we want Czech television to be for everyone, for all dealers. And I say again that in this situation we would promote the model and promote the model of abolition of licence fees, because we want Czech Television, Czech Radio to be financed directly from the chapter of the state budget under the control of the Supreme Audit Office. As I was saying, let's take a closer look at the amendment to the Media Council Act. Now I've said a brief introduction, a kind of entrée for us to have a general view of the matter, and now let's take a closer look at the law. So I'd consider why you want to change the law. So, for example, contrary to the original wording of the law, the current wording of the law at the same time, is probably the most serious change in the way you want to rename and recall the councillors. Why? Both Czech television and public radio are the media, which has favored for many years and has, in the last decade, actively promoted political parties that have gone to Brussels and have pursued a policy that supports the ideology of liberal progressiveism. It was only during its second government that the YES movement, with support, and with our action, with the SPD's actions, managed to disrupt this hegemony of the only proper opinion. This means, on the contrary, during the last parliamentary term, that at least a little bit of the Czech Television began to reflect the views of the concessionaires who do not vote for liberal progressive parties such as ODS, such as STAN, such as Pirates, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL. So we managed to democratize the matter at least a little bit, in the sense that Czech television began to reflect the opinional distribution in society, which is fully in line with the Czech Television Act, the balance of representation of the currents. But it is precisely the fact that media councils criticize public media, so the parties of today's five-calice seem to have scared the hell out of it. So much so that once the governments took over, they decided that the so-called small councils, that is, the Council of Czech Radio and the Council of Czech Television, would occupy them with their people and that you would make them irrevocable and that you would de facto introduce censorship. You will introduce censorship to ensure that public media only lends their voice to people who fly to European capitals on Euro-Visikens, work in multinational corporations and feel like the world's citizens, whose government is based in Brussels. I have nothing against people who fly on weekends, it's more of a comparison. By the way, this comment I'm reading is a commentary from a media analyst, it's not my commentary, but I'm willing to quote from it. You just want to have censorship that will ensure it will provide a broadcast for those five-coal voters, but not for the voters of those parties that are now in opposition. And for eternal times and never otherwise, through the Czech TV screens, in your opinion, there should be a brusselsization of political and cultural life in the Czech Republic. If we approve this amendment today, the democratic competition of the political parties will disrupt Czech television with the strength of its more than seven billion crowns. Her news coverage, her publicist shows and her employees, thanks to the political composition of the council and its irrevocableness, will become the ultimate trumpet of liberal progression. The Activist Czech Television already convinces in some of its programmes its dealers that the concerns of citizens about work, housing, worry about price increases, debts and executions are not important to those editors. Czech television in its programmes essentially claims that the citizens of the Czech Republic should be more troubled by problems with gender policy, gender identity or carbon dioxide and differences between human races. We must tell ourselves what the amendment is still unacceptable about. The amendment, for example, will so-called concrete the councillors in their organs. The appeal of council and councillors is changing. Initiator and co-creator of the novel David Smoljak wonders - quote: I do not see how these media should be restricted. On the contrary, the amendment strengthens the role of proposing organizations, draws the Senate into the process, thus eliminating the winners of the election of dominant influence. And that is what media analysts see the problem, because if they won the opposition elections in three years, this amendment will no longer give them the chance to choose enough councillors to see the voice of opposition voters on small media councils, on the Council of Czech Television and on Czech Radio. So this isn't about taking over -- you're about taking over the board. We are concerned with ensuring opinional pluralism on Czech Television, in Czech Radio, so that the voice and the views of voters of non-governmental parties can be heard there, which, according to the survey, most citizens would vote today. And you would be voted by a minority, which needs to be made clear. After all, this was also the result of the elections a year ago in those Houses of Elections that a million votes fell, and that was mostly votes for parties that were definitely not close to your program. [[10.20 hours]] So, basically, the situation now is that - because the Senate is occupied by pro-progressivists and because most voters of the opposition have no confidence in the Senate, there is also such a low turnout as opposed to the elections to the House, so, of course, the situation is that you have it exactly calculated so that you, in fact, the representatives of the government's five-police, can fully control the media council and not hear the voice of the opposition voters. I understand, I wouldn't understand it either, but I would still understand if I were to experience your feelings that you would say well, some opposition votes for a percentage party, but today the situation is that the opposition represents most of the citizens of the Czech Republic, or this way, it represents more than you represent them. And that's what every democratic-minded person should definitely reflect. So this is just a problem. And even for this reason, because the Senate is controlled by the progressives, so originally the co-authors wanted the amendments - Mr. Censor, Mr.Klíma State Klíma, this is the place of the censor you created, Prime Minister Fila created it directly at the Office of the Government, so originally this co-author of the amendment, this Mr. Klíma, who has the newly created function of the Censor-in-Censor, so you wanted the Members and Senators to vote equally - half of Parliament and half of the Senate. Here, truth, I must say, here I can see periferly that Minister Baxa nods because he awaits commendation certainly, so true, here you deserve partial commendation, because you have already realized that it is probably too much, that it is too much, that it is too much, that it is not possible to give in to those progressives, therefore you have returned it to not being half-and-half, and you have done it so that a third of the Senate and two thirds of the House. I'm glad you're listening to my speech again, even though it's quite longer. I'm sure that's a good moment. It shows the interestingness of my speech, of course. No, no, I just said that as much as I did. So that's for sure - but again, Minister, let's face it, it's also proof that you see the problem of the novel yourself. Let's face it, you yourself sensed there was a problem. So that's what I didn't want to add, that B, that the Minister of Culture Baxa felt that the novel, which was basically pre-prepared towards you, so that it just really isn't right. The amendment then, of course, lies in the fact that the Chamber of Deputies therefore elects 12 members of the Board from the candidates proposed by it in accordance with paragraph 2. Members may be re-elected. And six members of the board could now vote for the Senate. Once again, these people could be reelected. And then there are these details that the names of the elected members of the Senate and the House... The Senate will report without undue delay to the Chamber of Deputies and so on, with individual members of the Council responsible for the performance of their duties to the Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic which elected them. Otherwise, of course, you have here further that the council will elect the chairman, the Vice-President, from among them, to dismiss them. It's just some standard procedure. Of course, there's nothing special here. And there's this way of electing the chairman. If the President is elected from among the members elected by the Chamber of Deputies, the Vice-President will be elected from the members elected by the Senate, and vice-versa, which I do not really understand in terms of the quality and competence of those members, because in my opinion, the most competent and the best possible of those councilmen who are there, but those are just the things that - it gets muddy again, it stops being clear again, it stops being completely transparent and so on and the hand just washes the hand and just some backstage agreements and so on. However, it is necessary to emphasise once again who prepared the amendment, who prepared the amendment, because from this point of view, of course, we will understand what the ideological background of the people who prepared the amendment is. There. These were non-profit organizations, which, in the long run - and clearly based on their media views - are going to the hands of Petr Fiala's five-police government, clearly promoting the views of Petr Fiala's government coalition. It's a non-profit organization Renovation of the state, which according to my information is paid from abroad, and I think everyone can look at her account. It is also the Czech National Committee of the International Press Institute and it is the Foundation Fund for Independent Journalism. Whoever has ever become familiar with the activities of this Foundation's independent journalism fund, which is just a title, can't be about independence, of course -- well, independence... But it is clearly an organisation that is on the side of the European Union, on the side of liberal progressiveism and on the side of the government coalition of Petr Fiala. That's quite clear. We know that. All you have to do is look at the media they're sponsoring. This means that the ideological background of non-profit organizations that prepared this amendment is quite obvious. It's quite obvious. They are mostly organizations that oppose the current opposition and are fully on the side of Petr Fiala's five-calice government, so there can be no balance, no democracy. He also prepared this novel by Michal Klíma. As a member of the Czech National Committee of the International Press Institute, the Czech National Committee of the International Press Institute, and already in the new position as the head censor, in the position of the Supreme Censor at the Office of the Government under Prime Minister Petr Fiala. This amendment was also prepared by Senator David Smoljak, who is not a party to the STAN movement. So that's where we're at. This amendment was also prepared by Jan Lacina, who is also a Member for STAN, who worked on Czech television and defends its hard core, the activist one. And then Martin Baxa prepared this novel, which is the Minister of Culture for the ODS. So here we could actually discuss in more detail who is behind this novel, which aims to exploit the licence fees of all citizens and the aim is to control Czech television in its own personal favor. Otherwise, if we look at the independent journalism foundation in more detail, it has such a nice name, but underneath the surface it hides, under the name, when of course the name can be invented by anyone who wants to, so, of course, there are other details underneath the surface. So the foundation fund financially supported independent journalism, financially supported for example by the organization Man in Need, web Watchdog, money also gave for example magazine and site Forum24, publisher Pavel Šafr, and so on. So I think it is quite clear what the position anchoring of this fund is, and it is certainly not pluralistic and it is certainly not impartial. That's for sure. [[10.30 hours]] This International Press Institute, let's see who, for example, is a member of the International Press Institute. The members are Michal Klíma, for example, the top censor, who was appointed Prime Minister Petr Fiala, for example Pavel Šafr, Jaroslav Kmenta, Barbora Tachecí, Robert Čásenský, Janek Kroupa and others. We can see exactly again - I don't just want to talk about names, somebody's like that, somebody's poppy, but in any case here we see a certain... What I want to talk about, I don't want to criticize anyone here in any way personally, it doesn't make any sense, nor do I want to go into any details, let everyone have the opinions they want. I'm thinking democratically, so let everyone say what they want. But this is about what the ideological background of this novel is, and we see that it is ideologically biased. That it wasn't going to be a regular discussion, that both the representatives of the opposition views and the representatives of the coalition views would be in the debate. That's what I want to talk about right now, that's the point. I don't want to talk about specific names, or I'm not even gonna attack anybody here at all, that's not my goal here to discuss any names of individual journalists, that's their freedom, what they're doing and what they're writing. And as long as they don't lie, of course, but that's different. So that's what this is about. Now it's also about... So really what we're saying, and we've also said it in a short form that it's actually a political issue with this law and that it's actually an attempt at political domination of public media, so I've just been saving it for this speech, because I have more space, I finally have the space, and this is where the space is when this particular law is being discussed, so I want to reveal this ideological concoction that is under this bill. So my words are fully confirmed, even the one who, of course, is our opinion opponent, which I understand, of course, that the voters of the TOP 09 or the Pirates and so on, of course, that they are our opinion opponents, but why not, there is democracy here. But here I'm just trying to point out that the law isn't really ready for everyone, for all the dealers and for all the citizens. That's the point of why I'm talking about it. This law is prepared only - only - on the side of the government's five-calice Petr Fiala. So I'm trying to prove it on these rather large details that it is. And that is not right in my opinion, because again I say that Czech Television and Czech Radio belong to all citizens of Czech Television in quotation marks. [[Republic?]] All dealers. And those laws should be built so that the Council of Czech Television and the Council of Czech Radio should, as far as possible, represent all citizens of the Czech Republic or the main currents of opinion, which I again say is the word mainstream, that is directly, I am basically coming out of the Czech Television Act to represent all the currents of opinion. Or the mainstream currents, respectively. That's the thing we just don't like about the law in the SPD. Because we want to, and logically we are protesting, because there is a risk that SPD voters' views will not be sufficiently represented. And not only, as I said at the beginning of my speech, there is even a risk of persecution and bullying those who have opinions other than opinions... such liberally progressive views. That the conservative current and the patriotic current will simply be suppressed and not sufficiently represented. That's why I'm here. I don't mind at all if opinional currents are represented to support the government's five-caliber. But they should also be represented by opinions that present the opposite, i.e. conservative vision of the world and patriotic view. These are simply the opinions that we all represent here on the basis of the elections, depending on who is elected to the Chamber of Deputies here. And that's the problem that we have a problem with and why we just don't like the law, because logically here we are defending almost 600,000 voters who voted or over half a million voters who voted for the SPD. And our voters have legitimate concerns that their views and their current of opinion will be suppressed, even though they have to pay mandatory licence fees. As far as I'm concerned... Let us also look at the international context. What is the real interest of this novel? As far as the national contexts are concerned, I've talked about them so far, in what interest, to whom to benefit. And I think it is clear from my speech that this is not for the benefit of all citizens of the Czech Republic, just some of the chosen ones. But it's the control... So let us see what the international context is about the situation in the European Union. The mastery of small advice, that is, is called the advice - the Council of Czech Television, the Council of Czech Radio - and the great council is called the Council of Radio and Television, just to explain to citizens who are watching and watching us. Thus the mastery of the small councils in a way that allows the Czech public media to find itself under the control of progressive parties, which is a stronger wing in ODS, STAN, TOP 09, Pirates and so on, so basically the result is that it is quite clear that these parties do not matter to Czech viewers and listeners. They care about doing their part for the European Commission, because, among other things, there is a need to talk about the pressure that comes from Brussels. And that's Brusel right there, your government's on the line. Because the amendment you are proposing is, from your point of view, an appropriate complement to the current media freedom law prepared by Commissioner Věra Jourová of the ANO movement, which we do not agree with. De facto, there is a European center for censorship, through which the European Commission will determine what is and what is not true, what is good and what is evil. And, of course, the details are on the Internet with the fact that the so-called European law on freedom of the media has just entered into force, which has been sparked by Vice-President of the European Commission, Jourová. Věra Jourová of the ANO movement, with whom we disagree, has completely forgotten that she is Češka, who has completely forgotten who she is to represent, so Věra Jourová follows the development of the election of the new councillors of Czech Television and says, among other things, I have repeated calls against the members of the Czech Parliament to vote wisely and to vote for the council by people who not only have professionalism but are able to be fully independent. So, of course, I don't have to explain to people who follow politics what they mean by full independence. This means that they will fully defend the interests of Brussels. This is the translation of the chateau, which the Commissioner here calls Euro Commissioner, I am not even saying that she is a Czech Commissioner, because she does not, in my opinion, feel even Češka, so what Věra Jourová here says for the movement YES. [[10.40 hours]] It is important, by the way, that the European Commission, in its proposal to protect freedom of the press, envisages the establishment of an institution which is called the European Press Centre and freedom of the press. And because the European Union is trying because it feels problems, it feels the huge problems that the European Union has today because it is losing citizens' trust, look at the developments in the elections in Italy, look at the developments in Hungary, look at the Polish government. After all, look in the Czech Republic how confidence in the government of Petr Fiala fell after the elections and, on the contrary, confidence in the opposition has increased. So if there were elections to the Chamber of Deputies today, based on the last few surveys in the Czech Republic, the current opposition, i.e. the SPD and the ANO movement, will have a majority here in the House and you will be in a minority. This means that citizens' distrust of this liberal pro-EU policy is rising, and instead of the European Union, the European Union's leadership is working towards increasing confidence in citizens and finally starting to work for citizens, so they are going at it, just like all totalitarian regimes have gone at it, trying to introduce censorship and trying to reduce opinion freedom. So, on the basis of the demands of the European Union, on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission, four EU institutions are to be created. First, the Centre for Plurality and Freedom of the Media, second, the International Press Institute, third, the Index of Censorship, and fourth, a foundation is to be created - so here it is said, now I do not know whether it is Italian or Spanish - Osservatorio Balcani e Causeso. But in any case, these four institutions are supposed to actually keep an eye on it and keep an eye on it... to see if only the right opinions are presented, i.e. the pro-EU ones. This is even to be supervised by the new European - not European, EU institutions. Because the European Union is not Europe. That's what you've been trying to put between the equations lately, because there's been more and more dissatisfaction with the European Union, so you're trying here, notice it in the last year, two, as well as the media, the pro-brussels media are trying to put an equal between the words of the European and the Union. But it is not equal because many European countries are not in the European Union. And there is certainly no balance between this, especially when a large proportion of citizens do not agree with the European Union's policy. So let's say it's not European money, it's EU money, but the Union doesn't have money because it borrows it because it's guaranteed by the EU Member States. So that's the reality. There is no Union money. The European Union does not have money in itself. She needs to choose them or borrow them. So in other words, let us go back to the media control that the European Union is preparing. Thus media pluralism will be monitored by the European Union through the Central European University, which is the Centre for Plurality and Media Freedom, so it is intended to oversee the popular, in quotation marks popular, George Soros and other entities, which, among other things, are co-financed by the European Union. Because that Central European university, that's Soros, we all know that, that's a well-known fact. So basically, we know where the ideological wind is coming from. This means, once again, they are globalist views, they are views openly pro-migration, promoting migration and promoting globalism, and it is contrary to our vision of the world, that is, when we want security in the Czech Republic, we want national states and we want the cooperation of free and sovereign national states, not the mercy of one European nation and one European state. This is essentially the direction in which the European Union is going. But let us go back again, because it is one of those entities that prepared this law to dominate the public media that you are presenting here, the five-calice government, that is the Czech National Committee of the IPI International Press Institute, which is also one of those designated entities, one of those designated institutions, which is supposed to oversee, even within the European Union, that Evropan happen to think something wrong, something inappropriate. So that we don't happen to read something wrong, so that we don't accidentally evaluate it any other way than the European Union's leadership and Petr Fiala's government five-wheelers actually think. That is, which is why I'm discussing it here to uncover the complete cone and the complete background of whoever actually prepared this media law, which the five-calice government here is presenting, where it's going, and what it's linked to. I think that even most government politicians do not know this, I mean Members, who in fact and on what basis this bill was created, where all the strings are coming from, and that it is actually part of this whole project to introduce essentially the censorship, the one right opinion that Europe's citizens can think of here, and no other. That sounds really crazy to me. That is why I am glad that I have more room here to explain this whole thing, who was behind the preparation of the law, who are actually these organizations, who are controlled, who are directly connected to, or are part of, it is the Czech branch, actually, a larger institution, which is once again appointed by the European Union, to censor opinions here and actually watch the opinions that they think are supposed to be heard correctly here. And I really need to read this out to the ODS, because here it's like another piece of evidence that the ODS is fully on the arm, fully on the arm of the European Union's politics, and you're totally on the arm of this one to censor opinions, to limit freedom of speech and so on. I'd ask the Minister to be here, and until then, I'd have interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u15	You're right. The minister asked me for three minutes to get out of the O.R. and come again. So it's 47, I'm interrupting negotiations to 50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up, the Minister is also present in the Chamber. We can continue the negotiations. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u17	Let's move on, then. So I was actually talking about how the preparation of this media law, from my point of view, is completely unacceptable, with how, as puppets, they are essentially trying to control us, or your government, as puppets control you, these organizations connected to NATO, to Soros, to the European Union, actually to the leadership of the European Union, and so on. Well, it's actually even worse, the pressure you're actually putting on, what you're actually saying here, that you're basically already fully controlled by those foreign interests. But that's what you want to do, so that's what you think. Because, for example, the former President of the European Federation of Journalists, EFJ, one of those non-profits that puts pressure on Parliament to accept this amendment, considers it a mistake that the European Union did not see the Czech media scene any more. Well, that's the top of the line. Because even here the European Federation of Journalists, which is exactly one of these nonprofits, as I say, is still reprimanding, reprimanding the Czech government - it reprimands the European Union here, sorry that it has not seen the Czech media scene even more. At the same time, the European Federation of Journalists promises to make amends and, with help, in quotation marks, EU money, to ensure freedom and pluralism for the Czech media. Well, that's unbelievable, that's a dictionary really from the normalization period. I think we have freedom here at this point. She's getting more and more cut off by your government. The Home Secretary is setting up a censorship office here, as we know, you've already created a position as a top government censor. It's just a reminder that this year you created this website, the government created a website where you urged citizens to rat on each other literally and report, if someone in your neighborhood - remember, it's six months ago what Petr Fiala's government came up with when you called on citizens, even made a website for public money to report to citizens, if someone in your neighborhood or friends, friends, feels that their friend or neighbor has different opinions than your pro-government opinion, so you urged people to snitch and report to each other. Yeah, by e-mail. This is unbelievable! This is incredible what Petr Fiala's government is coming up with here in the Czech Republic. With you, the time comes when people turn themselves in, you call on them to turn themselves in. You're calling for insinuation for someone else's opinion other than that official government line of yours. This is simply unacceptable to the SPD because we have the name Freedom and Democracy, the SPD, Freedom and Direct Democracy is the name of our party. This means that we will simply defend freedom and democracy until our last breath and that people can express themselves freely, even if it is contrary to your government line. Why not? After all, you were voted by a minority of voters of the Czech Republic, even in the last elections, as I said a year ago. Minority. If the million votes for the parties didn't fall below 5%, you're not even in government today. Only 43 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic voted for you and 57 percent voted for other political parties. But, of course, you caught that chance, and now you want to politically control the Czech TV, censor your opinions, so that basically you can only talk to your side. So, of course, it's completely unbelievable. And the one who said it - that is something - the one who said it, the former President of the European Federation of Journalists, who considers it a mistake that the European Union did not see the Czech media scene any more, or more did not provide censorship, is called Mogens Blicher Bjerregard, who has been president of the European Federation of Journalists for nine years, which, among other things, brings together 73 journalists from 45 countries. A completely scandalous scenario, a scandalous quote from this point of view, and I quote: "When I joined the position of President of the European Federation of Journalists nine years ago, my predecessor said to me, Please don't forget Central and Eastern Europe." But it adds at the same time: "I took his advice to heart, but it was rather difficult to focus on this part of Europe and specific projects. " And that this was somewhat underestimated by the EU. And it says: "The countries of Central and Eastern Europe were considered sufficiently developed after accession to the European Union and other Union resources for these purposes were not envisaged. And it was a mistake." That means they're fixing the mistake by pouring the Union resources they've chosen from all of us, so they're pouring them right into these projects to actually reduce opinional freedom, and there's actually censorship of conservative opinions, and to give them space for the liberal progressive currents. So, really, the media machine, as we know it from totalitarian regimes, the European Union just started it in full swing. That's really unbelievable. Unbelievable where we've moved since 1989. After all, I could quote SPD members of Jaroslav Bašta again here. Because, as you know, among the Members of the House, there is only one dissident sitting here among us, the only person who was even persecuted at the time of normalization and was sentenced to two and a half years as a student in prison and served two and a half years as a student in prison for his political views. He is our MP Jaroslav Bašta, our candidate for president, who, of course, spent his entire life bravely fighting for freedom and democracy. After that, he did not even resign Jarda Bašta when the communists finally released him after two and a half years of prison, instead of resigning - everyone else might have resigned, but Jaroslav Bašta went to sign as one of the first Charter 77 in December 1976. That means before the release. So he's one of the first signatories to Charter 77. Jarda Bašta himself, when I speak to him, tells me himself that it is not enough to wonder where the Czech Republic has actually come about freedom and democracy. Because what our Jarda Bašta was fighting for was freedom and democracy, and he never bent his spine before any regime, so now it's coming back, when basically opinion freedom and plurality are beginning to be restricted. Unfortunately, you're restricting it here with these bills, the government's five-calice Petr Fiala and Prime Minister Fiala. You simply want to dictate what the right opinion is and any other opinions, i.e. those that are not in line with your government line, are to be persecuted and to be suppressed. Which I think is really a situation that we need to prevent, because we just have to defend ourselves here with these totalitarian proposals of yours. And you can see that the former head of this political nonprofit, called the European Federation of Journalists, has begun to fulfill his promise. Just as we have it here on the website of the National Fund for Independent Journalism - which I say again, that is just a name, but the fact, as we know, is different, which I have already explained - that is where they have an article on the website, where they have an article on how the European Federation of Journalists - which is once again a dedicated organization that does not represent all journalists - that is to be stressed, does not represent all journalists - so their boss was this Mr Bjerregard, so he appeals to the Czech Republic to accept the amendment on media councils. [[11.00 hours]] Here you can see where the wind is blowing from the beginning of your amendment to the law, that it is a purely purposeful amendment to the law, which is just slipped from abroad here, is actually slipped from the European Union, which now has problems with the support of the European Union, and now wants to strangle the screws as much as possible, attract the screws about the freedom of opinion and about democracy. I am taking this very further, because I think that for those who are from the media world, and I have been moving in it for quite a long time, as I have said, since about 1995, so I was very interested in how, for such one amendment of the law that you here, the five-police government, will present to us in the House, who is behind all this and where is the beginning, where is the instigator and who is represented here by Mr Lacina of the STAN movement, who is represented here by the Minister of ODS Martin Baxa. That they don't represent the Czech Republic. You represent a foreigner. You defend the interests of foreign interests. So this is exactly where I put it, who was involved, who the organizations are, where they have a cocoon, where the wind blows. And that's just the obvious facts. Sure facts. I'm not telling you that, like, you don't think, I don't have any right or I'm just not gonna be like, like, here telling you that you're some kind of bad or bad people or something. Oh, no. I'm just saying who you represent and who you're with and where the wind comes from. But you are convinced of your truth. You're democratically elected, so that's just the way it is, no one's arguing. Like you, you don't like the SPD program again, which I understand you have other opinions, so I don't like this connection, but there's a democratic debate, so please don't take it that I should somehow make you out here like it's not, like, your suggestion that it's against democracy or that you can't design it here. Oh, no. Oh, no. I didn't say that. I wouldn't say that in any way. My performance is disagreeable. But of course you have the right to suggest it here, and you have the right to assert it here, and of course I'm not questioning that in a word. And it's entirely your business who you meet, in what name you deal with. That's all your business. But unlike those "one lady" that I hear sometimes, or I hear very often from the government coalition, I've already set an example here, as the minister said, that the SPD was part of a government coalition when it wasn't, and the whole nation knows it wasn't, and we never voted for any of these government proposals like a state budget or trust to the government, and we didn't even leave the hall. Or if someone says that the SPD is being paid from Russia, you all know that we all know, even the Political Party Supervisory Authority, that we've never had anything from abroad, that's a really proven lie. Those are really proven lies, because, of course, we're not paid like this or we're never gonna be paid like that. Never. That means we don't even need it. That's a lie. But here I am, which is why I'm very careful with this law so I can have it all backed up. I've got links to articles here, I've got everything backed up basically, basically by the resources and by the names exactly, who and how and where and how and who is. So that's the thing. As far as the European Union is concerned, the European Union is very much concerned about the composition of these media councils, even as it follows from the European Commission's recommendation of 16. 9. 2022, that means that's basically a month and a half ago. And it is a recommendation called About internal guarantees of editorial independence and ownership transparency in the media sector. It means, here is like really so much remarkable that on one side of the government's five-calice attacking for example Andrej Babiš - with whom we have nothing in common, we are the other side, we are the SPD - about the media that controls the media and the like, and on the other hand, you in the same way, but even worse, because here it is from public funds, from concessionary fees, so that you basically want to control public media in a completely unacceptable way, because probably none of you has what it takes to buy your own. Me neither. I'm just proving that it's not like I'm the one in some other position here. So I just want to say that I have my Facebook, and that's my maximum. Yeah, well, I'm just not a billionaire, so it's just that, it's true. So I just wanted to point out a little bit different that you, on the one hand, are accusing someone of controlling the media and then writing on the side of Andrej Babiš and the side of the ANO movement, and on the other - but it's for private money. On the other hand, from my point of view, in a much more serious way, you are trying to control the media, because these are public media, which pays the concessionaires with licence fees. There. Now it's interesting that when I say that I just started here on the European Commission's recommendation of 16. 9. 2022, so - and they justify it here with such nice words that the European Union cares about the media advice and why it cares. Of course, you already know why: so that they can control it gradually through the very sides, such as the Fialův's five-calice government. Thus, in those Member States where media or press councils are not yet in place, representatives of the media community often lack incentives for development. Well, that's really thesis. That's like being stitched out of some completely standardized manual, because as a motivation for development, if the right media councils and the like aren't just chosen, well, that's - or why should they lack the motivation of representatives of the media community when media councils aren't elected or if there's no media council? Those are just real opinions. That is why the European Union here promises to support the emergence of good media advice financially. Right in quotes. This project aims to support the European model of self-regulation of the media as an essential part of the strategy for protecting media freedom and encouraging professionalism in journalistic content, while at the same time better understanding the consequences and challenges of digital development for these media councils. That's just the sauce. And here they are writing in these demands to support the creation of new media councils: the possibility of providing direct financial support if necessary. And that's underlined here. That is, so that the European Union can directly support the media councils, or influence them financially, with the money that it will withdraw from all of us, so that they can directly support the media councils, or influence them financially, to proceed exactly according to the opinion presented by the European Union. And those are all the details that are just behind this novel. It's just like that. By the way, I would return briefly to the speech of the Chairman of the Committee of Aleš Juchelka from the ANO movement, because perhaps the audience and the citizens completely, because, as the Rules of Procedure are a little more complicated, perhaps somebody did not understand why the government coalition here changed the rapporteur. Why the government coalition did not want the rapporteur to be an ANO MEP to be the rapporteur for this law, that is to say, an opposition MP, and why you are strongly opposed to any practice against the recommendation of the chair of Aleš Juchelka, who has the media in charge, you have made a hard choice for the rapporteur to Kolovratník Lacina from the STAN movement for the government. Well, since the rapporteur here could, of course, be interested in the opinions that fall here... Because, of course, the rapporteur may speak with priority rights and he shall be given the floor at any time under the Rules of Procedure. [[11.10 hours]] I would just like to say that for those who do not know, so yes, he as a human - rapporteur, the one as a person who, like the party chair and the club chairman, can be given priority rights. This means that you deliberately switched the rapporteurs so that opposition opponents could not be fully involved in this law. And that's the point, why you're on purpose, undemocratically and totalitarianly again, and that's what's going on here, you didn't allow the rules in the House to allow the rapporteur to be an ANO Kolovratník of the law, but you traded him for strength even as co-author of the law, Mr Lacina for STAN. In fact, Minister Martin Baxa is here already as a translator. So this is actually sitting behind this table, not the correspondent that should be there, and today you've voted for it, but there's actually two plaintiffs sitting here. This is an incredible bend to the rules of the Chamber of Deputies, totalitarian again. Those are really incredible manners. So instead of taking part in the discussion here, the rapporteur who was designated in the committee, so that you can make sure on all sides that the debate and the opinion opponent can't take place in an adequate manner, you actually switched the rapporteur. So I just kind of followed up on the opening of that point because I immediately realized that not every citizen and journalist could have been clear about what happened here at the beginning. And it's really a very nasty bend to those rules in the Chamber of Deputies. I don't think it's good, because one day, this political representation here can be replaced, turned around, I've seen this place before, and then it's like it's not really like the opposition party that's gonna stop being government. But then, of course, those who are going to be the new government may be you again, I don't know, the voters will decide that, but then they'll just refer to these precedents when you guys bent it all over like this. It's against the rules. And I say it's not good. On the other hand, I am convinced, and I must say that this House is, in my view, so skilled from this point of view, that none of us here needs anything other than democratic methods to enforce it here, so there is nothing to worry about, that you would either not be able to enforce your affairs in the finals or that there would be no discussion here, but that you have to go as a pulp so that you can actually erase the original rapporteur in order to comply with some rules. That really surprised me very unpleasantly, and it really needs to be remembered. Because that's really beyond what you're doing here in terms of your cooperation in the Chamber of Deputies in the negotiation of any laws. And we're supposed to be here together for three more years. If you're actually stepping on your feet like that, you're gonna spit on all the rules and customs in the House, I'm telling you, it's really not good. Because you've been doing this here since the beginning, and I don't think it's a good thing for the future, that is, for citizens to work here, because citizens are expecting work from the Chamber of Deputies. Let's move on. So, Czech TV... Or you know what? I'm gonna break it off now, because I'm gonna have quite a lot of space with priority rights anyway, because I, right, I'm still ready, depending on what the atmosphere is, and how it's going to go. Maybe the government will realize that some of the passages in that law are unacceptable, so maybe my next act won't be necessary. But the truth is, I still have a few hours here to try to explain to you that the law is wrong, but I'll save it for my next performance. This is from the introduction I was going to say here to evaluate the mess of the law. So in any case, Petr Fiala's government wants to politically dominate public media authorities to broadcast basically only pro-government or Brussels views. Members of the SPD simply disagree with you controlling Czech Television and Czech Radio in this way. We are convinced that Czech Television and Czech Radio should democratically represent all major currents of opinion, as the law says, that there should be balance. That is why we do not agree with the proposal at all, and I think that the existing law on Czech Television, concerning the appointment of these advices, specifically, I want to say that it works without any problems. So we don't see the problem here. I would like to say at the very end of this first speech, and again, I say that it concerns me - but it doesn't really impress me anymore, because I've seen you here for a year now, the five-calice government, what priorities you have today. You will convene an extraordinary meeting to control the political Czech TV and the Czech Radio so that they will have to broadcast to your side to stay at the trough at all costs, because your preferences are falling, instead of helping people here to get more expensive, energy-expensive, and helping energy companies not to let people go. The SPD wants to deal with helping people with higher prices here, we want to deal with helping people in executions, we want to deal with helping working people, we want to deal with helping elderly people, disabled people and other needy groups, families with children. But you don't want to deal with it, and instead, you're having an extraordinary meeting here so that you can control politically Czech television. All alone, we just can't agree with that at all, with your priorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. I have two factual points here. I'll read the apologies first. First of all, Mr Oldřich Černý apologizes from 11 o'clock for business reasons, then from 10 to 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Aleš Dufek apologizes for the whole day for family reasons, Mrs Alena Schillerová apologizes for the whole day for health Wenzl. Furthermore, Prime Minister Petr Fiala apologizes to the members of the government within 13 hours of work, and within 13 hours of work, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura apologizes. The first Mr Jan Lacina and then Minister Martin Baxa will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am voting for a factual point to separate this speech from my role as rapporteur for this press. First of all, I'd like to respond to who I represent. I represent Prague voters, Mr Okamura, through the President, I have received 26 000 preferential votes. Compare it to your result. That I would intervene in favour of Petr Hlubuček on Czech television is of course pure nonsense, either check with Mrs Dobiášová or with the source you quoted. I rule it out absolutely unambiguously. On the other hand, I must thank you for reminding me of my favorite children's book, written by Josef Čapek, which is called O dog and kitty, how they baked the cake. That is what your speeches, through Mr President, always remind me of. Then I would like to say that, on the contrary, I am very proud to report to that indent in the government statement that we are here today, in particular, to strengthen the independence of key public service media. It is the stability of parliamentary democracy in this country for a long future. Let's go to Hungary and see how the one-chamber political system is going downhill and where it is today. This is a very fundamental standard, and the vicious protests of some actors and the votes only confirm this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, too. Now, the Minister has a point of fact. Then, with priority rights, Mr Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think that with Mr Okamura and President Okamura, we could have big debates on some of the issues he mentioned in his speech. Of course, I deeply disagree with him in most of what he said, but that is democracy. But I want it to be public and clear here on the microphone: the draft of this bill was written by the Ministry of Culture and my colleague from the relevant section of my ministry. This law neither wrote the Foundation Fund for Journalism nor any other nonprofit organization. [[11.20 hours]] This bill passed the standard interdepartmental commentary procedure. It is even a second version, which was very significantly modified against the first version in the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, which we have complied with. And I really consider it necessary and necessary to say that we are ready to listen to the different opinions that are being expressed. This legislation is of great interest, and it will certainly be confirmed by my colleague, Lacina. We are approached by various entities, along with the above-mentioned Fund of Reconstruction of the State, branch organisation and so on. But I want to reassure you once again that the final bill, as it is presented at today's Chamber of Deputies meeting and as the government has agreed, was written at the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u22	I thank you for keeping time. Now, with priority rights - I would like to ask, Mr. Ambassador, if you are speaking with the club's position and with priority rights? Together. Please, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u23	Thank you so much for the floor, too. I will follow up on these factual remarks here, because I will also make a few arguments here that, of course, the Ministry of Culture has shielded the whole, but of course, the creation of this law was somewhere else, and simply the Ministry of Culture had no choice but to shield it, because the five-wheelers, as we know it, were, of course, pushed by some Members, precisely in order that this small amendment, which has no justification at all, would somehow dominate the public service media through advice and through management to somehow shield it. But, of course, the Minister is right that it was officially written at the Ministry of Culture, the head has it. Water costs a third, households have to lose thousands more. That's one of the headlines of today's media on the servers. And we're dealing with unprecedented increases in all kinds of energy. At this point, we are being hit by up to one third of the water price for households, but we have an extraordinary House meeting here because of an amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. It's completely nonsense. I don't understand why the government coalition is in such a hurry. I do not understand why it is pushed like this by some Members and senators, and then, of course, by the government through the Ministry of Culture, as we have explained. And I do not understand that, at this unprecedented time, we are dealing with an increase in the number of councillors from 15 to 18, leaving nine members to the Czech Radio Council. Somewhere we have an even number of councillors, on the other hand we have an odd number of councillors on Czech Radio. It's a total illogism. The amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, which is presented here by the government, is simply bad, unimaginable, expensive and possibly unconstitutional for dealers. It is based on the misconception that if we change the way in which the council members are elected and that if we involve the Senate in the election, we will get better advice, thereby ensuring the desired representativeness of the candidates, as I read in the statement of reasons. Let us not be overwhelmed by the false reasoning that the current government coalition is to ensure greater control of public radio, and how I will continue to discuss, especially television. And it is necessary to go into history, because the whole context of how the law was prepared goes back to the previous parliamentary term, of course, but, above all, historically, I would like to point out that the intentions of the government coalition and its Members are simply not godly. Quickly processed, hot needled novel is convenient for government parties. Unfortunately, the amendment does not benefit citizens, at this time the concessionaires who pay for the public service media, and it does not bring about a solution to pressing problems. Did one of the authors and authors of the amendment, i.e. from the government coalition, ask whether listeners and viewers want to change the choice and choice of council members or perhaps better supervision of the functioning and management of the public service media, or whether the composition of the programs suits them? When we look at the history of this novel, we will understand why we have this glued section here that doesn't solve the situation, but preserves, blocks, freezes. Instead of a big novel here, we have a little ill-conceived novel that brings three more paid seats for government coalition candidates, because when we look back, five members of the Czech Television Council were elected only by the votes of the government coalition. The choice of acclamation site for a secret election was here a few months ago. As opposition Members, we did not agree that these five members of the election should be elected by acclamation and not by a secret choice, and we left in a demonstration, because the only objective, of course, was to see who voted, who raised the hand for which candidate. And the de facto government coalition here, after several unsuccessful secret elections, has shown that it is simply willing to trample those democratic values from start to finish, because the only goal it has is to master the model of Poland and Hungary, where it also went through the House of Deputies, through the Sej, the public service media. That's not how much a match you see in a jury vote, whether it's dance or figure skating. But let everyone take a picture of the extent to which Members are free and how free public service media can be when they are elected by political grémia of five-calice in their advice, which is a public control body, not a representative set of politicians. The current CEO of Czech Television, in his self-evaluation at the Czech Television Council, scored a three-minus mark on a scale from one to five, as is the case at school. The relationship between the Director-General and the Board is not properly established in the law, which follows from the statements of both the councillors and the Director-General himself. I would therefore expect a wider amendment, not a law that establishes three new, well-paid places in the Czech Television Council. I would not expect that from the supposedly budgetaryly responsible coalition. But what we can see here is that if the coalition is to make a deal, everyone has to have something, and someone has to pay for it. In this case, the Czech Television will pay for it. But let's look at the history of this novel. In the autumn of last year, sometime in October, Senator David Smoljak introduced a rather radical, say revolutionary, amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. As a senator, he suggested involving the Senate in the councilman's election process. He also wanted to limit the rights of associations and organisations to propose candidates for councils in several ways. The associations would have to operate in at least two regions, there would have to be at least ten years and members of the council would have to comply with professional qualifications and practice. When I read it, I was threatened, and I was wondering - where did this man come from, that he decided to deny more than a 30-year-old law that we've been voting for radio and television council members for 20 years? A description of the legal situation in the explanatory memorandum already pointed to an incorrect idea of advice. First of all, we need to understand what our counsel is for. If I take the TV advice, I need to read the whole Czech Television Act. According to Section 1, Czech Television is set up, according to Section 2 of the Czech Television provides public service, which is discussed in detail in Section 3 in particular in paragraph 3. 1. Only § 4 and others solve control over the activities of Czech Television, which is carried out through the council. Before we begin to address the conditions of the Council's functioning, we should clarify this, in the context of the 21st century and 30 years after the effectiveness of this law, the scope of the public service and describe the media map. Short recap. That law arose at a time of technical limitation, when the signal was mainly transmitted wirelessly through terrestrial transmitters and was based on the concept of a dual system in which public media and private media stand on the one hand. At that time there were two public channels of Czech television, one and two, and private channels of Prima and Nova, as only four channels could be distributed throughout. The situation is quite different at the moment. The distribution of television is now possible not only through terrestrial transmitters, but also via satellites, cable TV, IP technology, over the Internet. [[11.30 hours]] At the same time, we can no longer introduce television audiovisual broadcasting into the surviving concept of dual broadcasting, where we have public services media, which are legal operators, and the private media, which broadcast on the basis of a licence granted by the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. I would venture to say that at present we can see a quaternary system, which is public service media, i.e. law-based operators, private media, they operate the media on the basis of a license, various Internet platforms from editors that operate either as news, information, publicity or reporting sources, and presentations of individuals or groups, which, of course, by their audience and the number of followers can have more reach than all other content distributors, let's say, from that last century. It can be a stream of politicians, economists, youtubers, designers, just anyone who wants to spread their views in some way, but also news without intermediaries, most often journalists, editors, moderators, reporters. That's what I'm saying, in order to realize how the TV market has changed, maybe we should say audiovisual, and how necessary is a big amendment to the law that will reflect this here. That is why, under the auspices of the electoral committee, I organized the first seminar that was supposed to be about defining a taxpayer in the 21st century, because the taxpayer in the 21st century is completely different and has a completely different definition than 30 years ago, because we can just play public media on different platforms, whether on a tablet, phone, computer, car, digital distribution of content. But back, to put it briefly, Smoljakův's proposal, which wanted to introduce the expertise of the council members, with the justification - I quote: "The existing legislation does not impose requirements on the expertise of candidates for council members." Unbelievable. I did not fully agree with this question from the outset, because the operation of the public media covers a number of activities, which are more or less understood by at least every spectator, especially in terms of output, i.e. a programme. Every spectator, receiver and payer is able to express whether contentment or dissatisfaction with the scope and composition of the program, even in relation to the performance of the public service tasks defined by law. We can also find a similar position in the case of a member of the court, who is a legal layman, who participates in the court's decision-making, but there is no need for any expertise, of course compared to the judges, where the law provides for a master's education at a Czech university in the field of law. Other elected positions are similar, from the village representative to regional representatives, Members, Senators, President. The Council is not an executive body, it is no board of directors, it is not a body of advisors but a means of supervising the public's activities of Czech Television and Czech Radio. As far as legal and economic issues are concerned, the board members choose and elect a so-called supervisory committee which should assist them in areas where they are simply not experts. In addition, the management is subject to a statutory audit. It would be illusionary that by creating some requirements for professional competence, it would be possible to draw up a board in which economists, visionaries, technicians, programme experts, personalists, artists, entertainers, programme makers, graphic designers, property managers, educators, scientists, athletes and all these professions, but the media or the content of the media is simply creating a world of media. Moreover, in the Czech legal system there is no definition of professional prerequisites for the performance of control... to keep in mind supervisory activities. If we look at the Constitution of the Czech Republic, only constitutional judges require legal education. If we go into individual legal standards, for example, the Supreme Audit Office Act states that a person with a Master's degree can be a president, vice president or a member of an office without further specification. However, if we look at the law on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, the membership of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, which is an administrative body with its own legal personality, is not a prerequisite for expertise. Rights to expertise can be seen as a restriction - I stress once again the restriction - of public rights in the control of public media. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that membership of the Board does not constitute a performance of employment, so it cannot be compared with the pursuit of gainful activity, such as a doctor, an auditor, a lawyer and the like. At present, there is no legal requirement for the expertise of candidates, for example, for the role of CEO, who manages billions of assets, which he appoints his subordinates, who decide on contracts from hundreds of thousands to hundreds of millions of crowns and directs the operation of public service media, when they compose a programme and news programmes that have a major impact on the provision of information. And neither did Smoljakův's novel. According to this, it was clear who was the aim of the novel and what had to be redesigned. And I say that in the historical context, because it is important to perceive, I would say the low motives of those authors who are not Godly, but merely powerful. I completely misunderstood the limitation of nominations for board members. Restrictions on the rights of associations and legal entities to participate in public life. I did not expect that 30 years after the passed law on public media, a senator elected in free and democratic elections would come with restrictions on freedom and fundamental political rights. But now that we have since March a state-paid government agent for administrative information, i.e. a government agent for media and misinformation, a failed candidate for the Czech Television Council, he has reported there several times, Michal Klíma, it is, of course, starting to make sense. I don't know whether the agent should act on the media, disinformation to create or disprove, but here the government party policy of increased supervision of the media and information has sadly met us. The requirement for at least ten years of existence of the proposing entity was and is still extreme and disproportionate. With the support of thousands of citizens, every citizen can set up, for example, a political party or a movement and run with it in turn in elections. The association can be established even without such a large number of signatures. But it must be noted that political and non-political societies enjoy protection guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. In this respect, Articles 20 and 21 are essential, which is the inclusion in Section 2 entitled Political Rights. Article 20 states - I quote: The right to associate freely is guaranteed. Everyone has the right to associate with others in associations, companies and other associations. Citizens also have the right to establish and associate political parties and political movements. Then two more paragraphs follow. I quote, the first paragraph speaks in general of association, the second one clearly and indisputably saying that political parties and political movements can also arise, which is the basis of political competition. Article 21 has a total of four paragraphs and states - I quote: Citizens have the right to participate in the administration of public affairs directly or by the free choice of their representatives. Secondly, elections must take place within the time limits not exceeding the regular term laid down by law. The third paragraph refers to universal and equal voting and to a secret vote. The conditions for the exercise of the right to vote are laid down in the law. Fourthly, citizens have access on equal terms, access on equal terms to elected and other public functions. This is essential for the choice of council members. While the first paragraph represents a general declaration of law and the second and third paragraphs refer to the law, the fourth paragraph without further reference says - citizens have access to elected and other public functions on equal terms. [[11.40 hours]] From the point of view of constitutional order, we have here, in simple terms, one kind of associations, but the amendment proposal introduces, without any authority, double societies. We can already consider this to be a flawed legal structure, and there is a restriction on equal terms of access to public functions, which is also a member of the board. The Charter, in its present form, does not allow the law to restrict access to public functions. In addition, the ten-year group test is too hard from the point of view of current social events, which associations can represent. We probably know the State Reconstruction Initiative, but it's not a society, it's a legal entity, Bold Bold Society, it's a registered association that, according to the public register, was established in 2014. Or we all know a million moments, more known as a million moments for democracy, which was created in 2018, five years ago. And neither of these associations should have the right to propose candidates for council. And I'm not talking about associations that support, for example, the tutoring of pupils when the associations were formed during the covid, when they couldn't go to school, or who were supported by the survivors of the victims of the covid disease, founded in the last two years. All of these associations here just can't nominate anyone. The requirement of the over-regional scope of the proposing bodies may have seemed to be a relatively good intention for the national scope, but it should be borne in mind that public media have legal obligations in the regions and that the differences between the regions are shown to be increasing, measured by economic and social, political, social indicators. If we hear in detail the public hearing of candidates for council in two years' time, this is one of the often repeated motives, which we should not ignore about the spatial placement of candidates, on the contrary, we should probably put emphasis on this. [[Looking?]] It is a valuable source of information on the perception of public media in people living in regions. It must also be borne in mind that the public service media have the opportunity to wipe regional differences, which is not going very well so far, even though we are going back to the regulation and definition of the public service, which I hope awaits us in one of the future seminars of the electoral committee. Well, of course, there was a request to involve the Senate in the election of the board members. I was shaking my head about it, too. This would be the only case where two chambers elect members of an institution, because all other supervisory bodies elect only the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate, such as a constitutional judge on a proposal from the President of the Republic or the President and Vice-President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, select the Senate and propose to appoint the President. If we go into recent history, the Members and Senators together voted for the President before they gave up this competence for the benefit of all voters, but the Members and Senators at the same time did not vote for parts of the collective body. Smoljakův's proposal was also marked by penalties for plaintiffs if they proposed an inappropriate or incompetent person, judicial review, and even the possibility that a group of Members or Senators could give the court an initiative to review the decisions of independent councils. I do not want to imagine how the court would have acted depending on the Council being in favour of the resolution or against the resolution. I mention this deliberately in this debate so that it is clear what was still on the table recently and how some imagine the control of Members and Senators over members of public media councils. Our ANO movement is in the House for three parliamentary periods, and it has never suggested anything like this scandalous. Or I can think of this year's tragic situation with a bonus for the CEO. The Council should approve a reduced remuneration according to the criteria, but since there are not enough votes to approve such a resolution, the Director-General will receive the entire bonus. The fact that a bonus contract envisages passivity, inactivity, or lack of votes for is simply immoral. Now imagine that a court would enter into this motion by a group of Members or Senators. That would be interesting. But thanks to the activities of Mr. Jan Lacina, the rapporteur for this press from the STAN movement, who is engaged in the payment of the full reward for 2020 for Petr Dvořák, we may still have a trial. Of course, we have been witnessing, in Ostrava, within the election committee, when the report on the activities of Czech Television has not been approved in the past year, not because it does not agree with the activities of Czech Television, which it does in terms of its creation, in terms of how it finances various series and de facto its entire programme, but was not approved by the government coalition absolutely scandalously because it was not fully paid a bonus to the Director-General, because this government coalition considered it illegal. So, according to the government coalition, the Czech Television Council here will do something that is contrary to the law, which can only be decided by the court, and therefore it will take all the employees of the Czech Television hostage for this, and agree, of course, with the report, and the report on the activity simply does not agree to that negative position. This is simply absolutely unbelievable and it is merely proof of the power ambitions of this five-wheeled government, and I do not say that in all Members, because of course, all Members do not know what is happening. But there are a few activist Members who are simply keeping the five-calice under the Czech Television and Czech Radio laws, and I regret to say that, including the Minister of Culture, Baxa. Anyway, I'm gonna move on. In December the government of Petr Fiala was created, and while energy prices were already rising due to external influences, the government of YES and ČSSD forgave VAT on energy to households in November and December and so on, the government of five-calice just after the New Year, as energy prices continued to grow sharply, turned its attention to laws that address the choice of members of the councils for Czech Television and Czech Radio. It was even such a priority that, at the request of the Minister of Culture, the Minister for Legislation and the President of the Legislative Council of the Government, by letter dated 1 February 2022, allowed an exception in the commentary procedure of the legislative rules of the Government, in shortening the deadline for making comments to five working days. The proposal for the amendment was sent to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure on 28 February with a deadline for the application of the comments by 7 March. This is another evidence that the government coalition simply and simply rushes to do so, makes an extraordinary meeting of the House, does not perceive the needs out there behind these walls of the citizens of the Czech Republic and its sole aim is to promote an increase in the number of councillors to the Council of Czech Television to simply check and control the election of the CEO of Czech Television in the spring. This means that, with the bill proposed by the Purple Government, we had comments from 28 February to 7 March, which means seven days on the weekend. This government proposal was no longer as ambitious as I submitted, as was the proposal made by Senator David Smoljak, and it focused on three areas according to the presentation report. The main aim of the bill is to enable the members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council to vote for both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic and not just the Chamber of Deputies, as is the case so far. The Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are the authorities through which the public exercises control over the activities of public service providers in the field of radio and television broadcasting. It is therefore desirable that their members elect the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a representative of the public. I quote further. The second amendment followed by the bill concerns subjects who, according to the Czech Television Act and according to the Czech Radio Act, propose candidates for members of these councils. The legislation in force provides that proposals for candidates for members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council may be submitted by organisations and associations representing cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological and national interests. [[11.50 hours]] The draft law strengthens the representative element of such entities and lays down a time condition for their existence which confirms their anchoring in the representation of the company's particular interest. This will ensure the desired representativeness of the candidates proposed for members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. And I continue to quote: "The draft law, last but not least, abolishes the collective appeal of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council, thus strengthening their stability. The Act is already drawn up in its up-to-date version in such a way that only individual members of the board are elected and dismissed, with which the appeal of the whole body is contrary." End of quote. The most important thing in the translation report was not mentioned, namely that the mandate of all members of the Czech Radio Council and members of the Czech Television Council will end after approval of the law, that the law will practically remove all members of the Council. The pirát' resources had no problem with that at all. Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister for Legislation and Chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government. Ministers for TOP 09, such as the Ministry of Health, the Minister for Science, Research and Innovation and the Chair of the Council for Research, Development and Innovation, have taken such a course with ease. There was a major conflict between the Ministry of Justice and the petitioner, the Ministry of Culture. According to the transitional provisions, the Ministry of Justice argued that the existing members of the Czech Television Council, or the Czech Radio, should cease membership of the said Councils by the end of two months from the date of the entry into force of this Act, despite the fact that the existing members are not yet due to a statutory term of office, and pointed out that the above chapter of the general part of the explanatory memorandum, which is devoted to assessing the compliance of the proposed amendment with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, does not in any way explain whether the provision in question complies with constitutional order. According to Section 4 etc. Act on Czech Television, and we also see in Section 4 of the Czech Radio Act, while membership of both councils is a public function. According to the Constitutional Court's case-law, the right of access to elected and other public functions within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of the Constitutional Court shall be taken into account. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms shall also include the right to hold public office for a specified period of time. See, for example, the Constitutional Court's decision of 24 November 2020. The Ministry of Justice therefore recommended that the explanatory memorandum on the assessment of the constitutional conformity of the provisions in question be drawn up, in particular in relation to the requirements arising from Art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ 4 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the principle of protecting so-called legitimate expectations. However, the Ministry of Culture responded to the criticism of the Ministry of Justice by insisting on its own, and to his comment he wrote that this was already explained. I quote: "The Constitutional Court's award shall mean the right to remain in office for a specified period of time, unless conditions exist for the termination of the term of office.' However, as the Constitutional Court stated in the finding, the so-called legitimate expectation of the non-changing conditions for the performance of the duties does not testify to individuals holding public office. It is stated in several places in the general part of the statement of reasons for this finding that the Charter guarantees fundamental rights and freedoms for all their carriers and can limit them only under specified conditions. However, the State is also competent to lay down rules on the organisation and exercise of public authority. If a person intends to apply for a public office has the option of choosing whether or not to submit to it, he cannot rely without further intervention in fundamental rights and freedoms, because he is in a different position from those who are not part of the public authority. These are not two equal groups of entities that could not be distinguished from each other. Moreover, in the Constitutional Court's view, the so-called legitimate expectation of the non-variability of the conditions for the performance of the duties does not prove to be of any benefit to the public official, on the contrary, if these conditions are found to be erroneous or there has been a substantial change in circumstances, so that the proper functioning of the State, the fulfilment of its international obligations or even its democratic foundations are at risk, it is therefore in the interest of fulfilling the normative concept of a democratic rule of law to take such measures, including legislative measures, which will prevent this. Within the meaning of the above, we consider that the amendment to the legislation which completely alters the concept of the establishment of the board of public service broadcasters sufficiently justifies the termination of the function of those members who have been elected for the validity of the different legislation. This justification shall be added to the relevant part of the explanatory memorandum. End of quote. I just want to show here again that this is another piece of evidence that, following the model of Poland and Hungary, this government coalition wants to seize and control the advice of the public media, thereby controlling management choices, thereby controlling the financial flows and thus controlling the individual CEOs, which, thanks to the fact that they are able to appeal to the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio, simply and simply forcing them to make some decisions that would be informal for them, because it simply has been tightening and screwing the freedom of the media since the beginning of their reign in general, and, of course, the space, I would say, narrows it down. And this is another proof of that, historically of course, that government MPs, those who are trying to push through this amendment, so I would simply say that they do not respect the principle or the unwritten rules, let alone the written ones, because they tried unconstitutionally, and they knew it very well, simply to elect all members of the board to the public media. It's that simple. And I am terribly sorry that it is the government MEPs who, of course, do not understand the public media that believe this godforsaken lie and will vote for it to go through the first reading, because if they were really interested in public service media, about Czech Television and Czech Radio, they would be dealing with it, like, a big amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, it would be discussed, the way funding would change and so on, but they only want to control two media houses. They are not interested in the Czech Press Office, ČTK, they are not interested in the Council for Radio and Television, they are only interested in the media that have influence, and this is Czech Television and Czech Radio. I will add, therefore, that the interpretation of the Ministry of Culture was fundamentally unconstitutional, and Minister Baxa knows this very well, which is why this unconstitutional part of this law was deleted by the Legislative Council of the Government. And it was unconstitutional because there was no change in the terms of entitlement to the function of a board member. The amendment of media laws did not alter the terms of membership, such as length and type of education, practice, but only the division of elections between the two parliamentary chambers and the modification of candidates for the choice, which will not hold up when the reason for the change is not the erroneous conditions for membership, but only the coalition agreement and the government's programming statement, which, without a deeper analysis, makes a change in the division of power, without an analysis of any benefits. [[12.00 hours]] In addition, the Ministry of Justice drew attention to this fact in the commentary procedure. So I quote: The main objective of the proposed bill is to enable the election of members of the Czech Television Council and Czech Radio Council by the two chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In this context, the Ministry of Justice notes that it is not without a closer argument of the petitioner, that is, the Ministry of Culture, Minister Baxa, that is to say, the benefit of the proposed change, what lies in the deficits of the existing legislation and whether the proposed change can therefore be considered essential enough to justify an accelerated amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act - and we are talking about seven days of commentary proceedings where only seven days had different organisations to comment on this. And following the model of Poland and Hungary, which were also in a hurry to do so, and also having extraordinary meetings with the local Sejma and the House of Deputies in Hungary, they simply want and simply by increasing the number of members of the councils and by dilution the election and removing the Director-General from the public media. Really unbelievable. The submission of the petitioner, meaning the Ministry of Culture, contained in the explanatory report on the draft law, according to which the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a whole is public, cannot be interpreted as representing only the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a whole, but that the public individually represents both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, namely the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. And in view of the very fact, as well as not exceptional practice, only one of the chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic is given the creative powers of the Constitution of the Czech Republic or the laws in a number of cases, when, for example, only the Chamber of Deputies expresses confidence in the Government and the Senate does not, while only the Senate agrees to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court as President of the Republic. Similarly, only the Chamber of Deputies proposes candidates for the post of President and Vice-President of the Supreme Audit Office. In view of the above, we therefore note that it is not clear for what reason it can be considered necessary or desirable to change the appointment of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Council. End of quote. Although the argument of the Ministry of Justice is close to me, I must correct the author's comments when I read it, because the members of the Rad of Czech Radio and Czech Television are not appointed but elected. Thus, within five working days, the Ministry of Culture received 22 comments. Twenty-two comments! For example, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs wrote in its comments that we consider the proposed amendment of the above laws an appropriate opportunity to amend the provisions of Section 8 contained in both laws in order to determine which place will be considered as a place for example a regular workplace for the purpose of providing travel compensation to a member of the Board, respectively. the Supervisory Committee. It is recommended that a member of the institution be appointed as the place of regular work. This is how the legislature instructed them in the case of similar bodies under other laws. For example, members of the Audit Board, the Cinematography Fund Council, the Accreditation Authority Board and so on. Where the destination of the place of residence corresponds to the nature of the activities carried out by those authorities, which do not have an exclusive link to a specific place, i.e. the place of work, as is usually the case in the case of work dependent. With this relatively factual and correct reminder, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs asked the wrong question. The Ministry of Culture settled his comment in the following words: The Ministry of Culture is aware that in the Czech Television Act as well as in the Czech Radio Act there are a number of obsolete or inaccurate provisions that result from the fact that the laws have not passed many years of revision. However, as far as the bill is submitted, its sole objective is only to fulfil - and this is indeed the argument of the Ministry of Culture - the fulfilment of the government's commitment under the programme statement is to involve the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Senate in the election system. Given that the Government had undertaken to enforce the relevant amendment of legislation already during 2022, it was necessary, for time reasons, to include in the draft law only such an adjustment as is necessary to comply with that obligation of the Government. For this factually limited reason and because of the time proposal of the law does not address the shortcomings of the legislation in force. In other words, I will translate it: We obviously have time, we do not have time to discuss this in the coming years, because next year the new CEO of Czech Television is elected, we must of course control it, the choice of the CEO of Czech Television, therefore it is not for a quality, consistent, big amendment to the Czech Television Act and Czech Radio time, we are qualifying for it. Therefore, even today, when the water is one third more expensive, and it is written on all servers, also for households, we have an extraordinary meeting of the House for the amendment of the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. That's why he's qualified for it. Well, because as I keep saying it over and over again, he wants it, but on top of that, really bad, this government coalition just keep an eye on it next year. If it was at least as good as everyone thought it would be, I would understand. But so many comments historically, when this is dropped by the Legislative Council of the Government, here we have a quad amendment that will make in the elections to the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio in the election of the CEO, to dismiss the CEOs and so on, such chaos that we have not had here so far. At the same time, we have a functional amendment to the choice of all councillors who have worked here for decades, and no one has ever complained, nobody has tried to change it until now, following the model of Poland and Hungary, where the screws are tightened to the public media, these government five-wheelers. Very, very congratulations. However, as far as the draft law is concerned, its sole objective is only to fulfil this obligation, as the Ministry of Culture writes. This is also expected in the foreseeable future with follow-up practice to change media legislation, which would correct current errors and irregularities in the Czech Television and Czech Radio laws as part of the processing of follow-up changes to legislation. It's really scandalous that we don't have a big novel for which we should have an extraordinary House meeting here, but only the one that's supposed to change the number of councillors, and therefore allow the coalition to put its candidate in for the CEO. Proposal for an amendment to the laws on Czech Radio and Czech Television, which (?) did not respect the constitutional order, was placed by the Prime Minister at the Government meeting on 13 April. Except at the meeting of the Government, the argument was answered not only by the Ministry of Justice but also by the Legislative Council of the Government that the end of the terms of office of members of both councils could truly be interpreted as unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. Except for the government, it's decided. So, a short recap. At its meeting on 7 April, the Government's Legislative Council recommended to the Government not to approve the bill and, at the same time, in its opinion, drew the general attention to the shortcomings of the proposal. Yet Prime Minister Petr Fiala included an amendment to both laws in the government's agenda and the Minister of Culture, who left at this time, did not withdraw the proposal on the day of the government's meeting. Even though the Government's Legislative Council said the proposal was unconstitutional, the government was simply discussing it. Regardless of lawyers, and experts insisted on their own, regardless of the constitutional rights of citizens. We should pay attention here, because it was probably not the first time that Petr Fiala's government decided to ignore the rights of citizens, in this case even members of independent public media bodies. In the minutes of the Government's meeting, we can read - quote: The Government interrupted the discussion of the material submitted by the Minister of Culture by 11 May 2022. [[12.10 hours]] I confess that at that moment I expected the negotiations of all political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate over the form of new legislation for public media, because public media is not only for selected political parties and movements, as the five-police thinks, but for citizens. I believed that the five-wheelers had learned that they had gone in the wrong direction and that they couldn't get anyone who had been properly elected out of office by amending the law. I expected us to start a debate over a major amendment to the laws of 1991. I had no idea that the Fialův Government would want to intervene in the council's election at all costs and that its members would be looking for a way to push their representatives into both public media councils. That's why we're sitting here today over this novel, which is supposed to just watch next year's election as CEO of Czech Television. Nobody cares, the government's five-caliber is totally fine with it. After all the five-wheelers here, in terms of voting for the board, where the choice of staff is always to be secret, they were voted by acclamation, of course, to watch each other, who votes, and when they vote differently, to get, to say some students at the gallery, a lens from their colleagues. That's how a government five-wheel drives. That's how she gets it, that's how she thinks, and she doesn't care. Why? Well, 'cause it's all beautifully wrapped up in the mantle of democracy, freedom of speech, just and simply trying to tell us that he's doing it for the good of all of us. Brrr. It really is not, and it is awful how these five-calices devalue these value words. Finally, the amendment came back after ten weeks at the government meeting instead of four weeks, on June 22. She didn't pass this time. The Government's Legislative Council, so it is not clear whether all the comments it has made have been incorporated into the proposal that we are discussing here at the moment. And that is despite the fact that this is a completely different proposal. In the material discussed by the Government in April, the Czech Television Council was to continue to have 15 members, but in the material discussed and approved by 18 members in June. I draw your attention to this on purpose as President of the Election Committee, because there are also new phrases in the proposal presented, such as a functional post, which certainly does not come from the heads of the Government's Legislative Council when it was not discussed according to the published minutes. The government's website on the material approved on 22 June also lacks settlement of comments. I say this because the Ministry of the Interior, an office run by Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement, wrote in a commentary procedure in March for the material at the April meeting - I quote: "We would like to consider whether it would be more appropriate to determine the number of members of the Czech Television Council at a ratio of 9:6. This means 9 members elected by the Chamber of Deputies and 6 members elected by the Senate, especially following the election of one third of the members. The promoter of the proposed division creates an ununited distribution of the proportion of candidates in the election, where the ratio of 4:1 instead of 3:2 is always once every six years, as is the case in the other elections." The Ministry of Culture has not accepted this comment and has bravely written in order to evaluate this comment: "The number of members of the Czech Television Council elected by the Chamber of Deputies and the number of members elected by the Senate has been set at the level of leadership of the parties to the government coalition." So that's what the government coalition decided. We will have three additional members of the Czech Television Council, which means about CZK 1.8 million in the budget for Czech Television, Minister Baxo. And at the moment, when CEO Petr Dvořák is reporting all over the place how bad Czech television is, how he needs to increase licence fees, because 7 billion is not enough, this government coalition will give her one more tap, amounting to up to CZK 2 million, because he needs to elect three more members of the Czech Television Council. Just to make it work for them, because they have calculated who the councilman, how the councilman would probably vote for their candidate for CEO next spring. It's that simple, it's ground floor and it's small. However, according to the House press, Vít Rakušan and the STAN movement have pushed their way and the Senate will therefore vote for 6 members of the Czech Television Council. Here we can see how much coalition governance is worth and that someone else, in this case the owner of the television, the concessionaire, will pay for it. However, to the essence. It is clear from this description that the government's legislative process was very chaotic, so I believe that we should reject the proposal for this press. But back to the House press, and why we should reject it at first reading. Firstly, the division of the election of council members between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate is not the right choice. It's not the right way. No one has evaluated the positives of this change after 30 years. I believe that the explanatory memorandum should include an evaluation of the election of both councils over the past 35 years. It didn't happen, otherwise someone here might come up with the fact that each region will choose the name of one member of the Czech Television Council and on the 15th, for example, the President of the Czech Republic or the Prime Minister. And at the Council of Czech Radio, we will take the list of regions alphabetically and maybe the first eight regions will send their representatives to the Council, the ninth to be appointed by the President or Prime Minister, and in the following years will continue according to the name list of regions. The strongest government party of the ODS had a recipe recently: let's simplify it. Now he comes up with the fact that the choice makes it more difficult. The proposing legal persons will send their proposals to the two chambers on board members, the nominees will attend a public hearing first in one chamber, then in the other Chamber of Parliament. I don't know how many candidates are gonna want to play this game, and after the last experience with the election of members of the Czech Television Council. Last year's election was not made due to the boycott of the parties of the current government coalition. This year's winter election in five out of six cases failed and had to take place in the spring a new choice. If I imagine that the choice and the choice in one chamber and the other may take place simultaneously, then the candidate may proceed to the vote before the plenary after the two hearings, that he will be elected by one chamber, which will stop the choice of the other chamber, because it will become involuntarily in it and it will have to be added to the list of candidates for three times the elected members, I am truly terrified of the procedure, and I think that this is simply more chaos that this government brings to the election of board members. But maybe, maybe that's the other way around. I welcome the President of the House to me, and I'm just pointing out that I raised a question to her at the outset, and that maybe I'd like her to answer me... Then perhaps someone else can take the lead: why has she changed, once again, the rapporteur for this press, and why has she answered, I would say, the weeping and lamentations of several Members who are unable to identify themselves with the fact that the chairman of the committee will say that he may have another rapporteur candidate, which I believe was an expert on the public media, Mr Martin Kolovratník. I think much more than Mr. Lacina. But probably, maybe he'll lead me out of a mistake and tell me the arguments why that is. However, its decision and decision of the organizational committee per rollam took place, I would say, a discrepancy in this law in terms of coalition and opposition. But these are the little things that, of course, we're going to have to endure. So the distribution of the election is completely unsystemic. None of the audit bodies is elected by the members of both chambers of Parliament. This is an experiment of the STAN movement. So I'm honestly saying I'd be very careful here. Personally, I would understand if the senators were to fight for the election of members, such as the Administrative and Supervisory Board of the VZP, so that they could, for example, better promote available dental care in their constituency. But I understand the decision on members of the Czech Radio Council and Czech Television is more attractive. It gives you the opportunity to flash in the media and enjoy your five minutes of fame. Holt's seventh power. Just to the edge, when we're at the VZP, there would be space, I counted it, of the 30 members of the Board of Directors of the VZP elects House 20, 10 appoints the government. The Supervisory Board has 13 members, Members elect 10, of which 3 will also be appointed by the Government. But I get it, you don't have it in the coalition contract. You only have the rule of public media there, and you don't even have it in the government's programming statement. And the Zlin cell is silent. [[12.20 hours]] Two. I really consider the government's ten-year requirement for a proposing legal person to be a mockery to all Members who have ever voted for members of the Council of Czech Radio and Czech Television and members of other supervisory bodies. The government is telling us that we are unlegal, that we cannot identify who will be a good member of the board and who is inappropriate for membership. It seems to me that our government is torn away from reality, that it does not stand firmly on the ground. What is the benefit for the viewer or listener in the election of a board member when Mr K proposes a association with a ten-year history against Mrs K, which will be proposed by a six-month-old association? Are we concerned that we and the journalists can dig into what the association has done in the past, what should they have done and not done? I have some examples here that I've looked up. On 13 April 2021, the pirate Member Tomáš Martínek drew attention to the findings of the Watchdog server, according to which I quote. "Server Watchdog then informs that most finalists in the Czech Television Council have nominated associations that violate the law. Up to 7 out of 12 finalists nominated associations that do not publish information about their management in the register, even though the law commands them to do so under sanctions of up to CZK 100,000 or under threat of erase." When I looked at the names of the candidates for whom he voted, as Tomáš Martínek posted on his Twitter account, I found among them four candidates whose associations had no financial statements. Three of his candidates were nominated by the Czech Film and Television Union, FITES, which did not enter any financial statements into the Collection of Instruments. One candidate nominated by the Association of screenwriters and dramaturgists ARAS has been missing financial statements since 2017. There wasn't a deadline for the Association of Film Cutters and Cutters. I find it particularly spicy that, 14 days after the appearance of the pirate Member, 27 April 2021, after the due date, the accounts for 2019 were sent to the Charter Collection by a limited liability company 1. Pirate owned by 100 percent of the Czech Pirate Party. Her only executive then was the candidate for the Prime Minister - then, I hope not now - Ivan Bartoš. The Pirate Party didn't behave better than the Ostracized Associations. And the pirát have been preaching something to us about transparency and compliance! They didn't follow them at all in their day. However, they were not the only men in compliance with legal obligations and transparency. Lidovci, who boycotted the election of members of the Czech Television Council last year and now signed under this bad amendment, also have their limited liability company, which bears the name New Voice. From 2018 onwards, the accounts are not sent to the Charter Collection. These are just examples of which are measured with a double standard, as my esteemed colleague Patrik Nacher would say. I just want to point out that putting this condition into the law just doesn't make sense. We don't vote for a legal person, but we vote for a man, a good or a bad, educated or uneducated, sensitive, hardworking, less hardworking, communicative, less communicative. Speaking of which, and I said the government isn't on the ground, I have one more thing to add. Before the vote on the Election Committee, a public hearing is held, where candidates represent themselves within five minutes and face questions from Members for ten minutes. This is the fundamental qualitative difference compared to the elections to the Administrative and Supervisory Board of the VZP and the control or management bodies of various state funds and agencies. These people are presenting resumes. So anyone who comes to a public hearing can ask questions. Finally, a person will be elected to the council, yes, certainly with the mistakes that everyone has, because I do not know, of course, except a few Members of the human race without mistakes. So for me, no restrictions on proposing subjects, no condition for ten years of existence. I can imagine an even more free and freer approach to the board member's role, i.e. that potential candidates would apply directly for a seat on the board to respond to the challenge. In the specific part of the explanatory memorandum, the introduction of the ten-year existence of proposing bodies states that - I quote: "In practice, such entities may even be established ad hoc purely for the purpose of proposing a candidate. The importance of entities without long-term participation in society in the relevant social interests is thus zero.' This, again, is a demonstration of a completely misunderstood and different approach overall. The bearer of the idea has never been, is not, and of course will not be an institution or any subject, but only human. The entity or legal person without people will have zero meaning. But the bearer of meaning, I would simply use the word value, as an economist the word utility, yes, is only human. Film is produced by s. r. o. A, TV B, he's funding his fund C, but the film is always made up of specific people like editors, directors, cameramen, actors, hairdressers and so on. It's just the terminology of the translator, how he perceives it and how I and my colleagues perceive it. However, I will not forgive any practical insight into the government's proposal, as well as Smoljakův's proposal, which the government and Minister of Culture have undoubtedly inspired Baxa. We will probably all remember the year 2020, those who were on the electoral committee or interested in when Pavel Kysilka, Pavel Matocha and others were elected to the Czech Television Council. At that time, in the flood of some 80 candidates, a man named Heřman Chromý was nominated by the Freedom of the Media Association, on whose behalf Senator David Smoljak acted. Even more strange was the fact that the association was founded on 20 January 2020, so he managed to nominate someone, because already on 4 February 2020, 14 days later, a public hearing for the Czech Television Council began. The second interesting moment was the personal participation of Senator David Smoljak from the STAN movement at the public hearing when he asked questions to other candidates. So it's an incredibly cocky one. If it suits me, I'll set up an ad hoc club and propose a candidate for the Czech Television Council. If it doesn't suit me, I'll be able to enforce a law as legislator to prevent it. This is about the values and principles that the petitioners and their supporters boast about. Three. The amendment gives the opportunity to nominate members of the board to all legal persons, which is probably not thought out, which is significant, not only the terminological departure from the current state. In the 2001 amendment, according to which public media councils are now being elected, the explanatory memorandum states in its special section: "The purpose of the new paragraph 2 in Section 4 is to deepen the existing regulation in the third sentence, according to which representatives of the Czech Television are to have significant regional, political, social and cultural views in the Council by granting a broad range of interest organisations and associations the right to directly propose candidates for membership of the Council. This principle of selection of candidates should guarantee that the members of the Board will be real representatives of the public." Yes, associations, formerly associations, are legal entities. But at the same time I must say that the legal person is also Czech Television, Czech Radio, all entities registered in the public register. So not only the associations of the foundation, but also the eseróčka, constitutions, municipal, municipal, regional and state contributions, state enterprises, ecclesiastical legal persons, as well as political parties and movements. So virtually anyone who is not a natural person or a natural person who does business will be able to design members of the board. This is certainly a revolutionary change. I don't have a problem with that. I just don't understand why the plaintiff can't be a citizen, a concessionaire, a payer, a radio or a television charge, and I don't know why we left the floor plan of an interest organization. [[12.30 hours]] Four. The amendment limits the number of Vice-Presidents of the Board and instructs members to vote in the election of the President and Vice-President. Well, that's really smiling. However, following the last election of the members of the Czech Television Council, when the previous secret election failed due to the unwillingness of Members to vote according to the decisions of the five-calice members of the MPs, and when the acclamation was voted to show who follows the club's instructions and who does not, it does not surprise me. But it is said that we should not introduce party practices of democratic parties into the functioning of public media councils. The amendment to the law says - I quote: "The Council elects the President and Vice-President from among them and withdraws them. If the President is elected from among the members elected by the Chamber of Deputies, the Vice-President shall be elected from among the members elected by the Senate and vice-versa." So we're supposed to have independent and impartial board members here, we're supposed to have independent advice here, and we're going to legally dictate how to vote? Some may give in, yes, but has anyone thought about how the senator minority of the board members will push their candidate against the majority of MPs? Or will he have two chambers on the councils or something like the Federal Assembly, where the majorization ban was applied? I consider this provision to be clearly unconstitutional, because it is discriminatory and does not allow equal access to elected functions. It just shows how unsystematic the division of councils between the two chambers of parliament is and how the authors of the proposal do not intend to give up the idea of "that is our representative, that is their representative." They just show up and color, as they mean with the independence of the members of the board and the advice as a whole. Why does the amendment address whether the President will be elected by the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate and Vice-President by the Second Chamber? Does the government here assume that the official, like the President-elect of the House, will go to the House for advice or inform Members of the events on the Kavčí Mountains? And maybe the vice-chairman elected by the Senate is going to go to the Senate for advice, or is he going to report to the Council? Is that how someone imagines the independence of advice and freedom of the media? Dear members of the government - which sounds a little bit bizarre. This is as if we wrote in the House's Rules of Procedure that the President is a Member elected in the capital city of Prague and the first Vice-President elected in the South Moravian Region. That would be the same thing. Let us be glad that we have two laws on Czech Radio and Czech Television, because we might have seen an even stupider proposal, which might sound like this: The Council of Czech Television elects and dismisses the President from among itself. If the President of the Czech Television Council is elected from members elected by the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Council of the Czech Radio will be elected from members elected by the Senate, and vice versa. You know, I'm incredibly shaking my head over these things. As if the government, the Ministry of Culture and the people around Senator David Smoljak, Mr Lacina, Mr Jakob and Minister Baxa, in whose proposal it was also... or David Smoljak, whose proposal it appeared for the first time, did not read the Council of Europe's recommendation under number 96 at all - Recommendation on the guarantees of the independence of the public media, which is also referred to by the explanatory report of the Smoljakův proposal in accordance with point 3 of the Recommendation concerning the supervisory bodies of the public media, which, in the context of the Council of Europe's recommendations and our legislation, corresponds to the position of the board, must not be threatened by the supervisory authority of a political or other nature. The fact that the Council of Europe's recommendation forbids anybody who can represent such a function. Among other things, the Council of Europe's recommendation also states that members of the supervisory bodies, in our case the board, should be appointed in an open and pluralistic manner and represent the general interests of society in groups. Not only the interests of government parties. The proposed legislation is less open, less pluralistic for members of the council, as the Senate is elected locally in a majority manner, while the Chamber of Deputies is proportional. This is just to say why the Senate should not vote for members of the council, since I have already sharpened the European recommendation to remember what it really says. Five. The increase in the number of Czech Television Councils from 15 to 18 is meaningless and wasteful. [[Members]] This is an important matter, but there is no mention of it in the preamble to the Act. No one ever explained why the number of members of the Czech Television Council should increase when over 20 years old was 15. I do not know whether one of the government officials has turned to the CEO of Czech Television or the Council of Czech Television, which approves the budget, or to an organization that may represent dealers, i.e. citizens and legal entities that finance the operation of television, so that the authors of a crappy novel can figure out how much money it will cost. And since the members of the government confuse the difference between a net and a gross wage, that question would be very useful for a qualified, understanding person, I think. And above all, there should be an accurate quantification in the explanatory memorandum. I doubt that people on TV don't care how much money they have to put aside for the new councillors, so that the STAN movement is satisfied that they will make six people elected by the Senate on the board. On the other hand, there will be less money for investigative reports on the STAN movement and other parties to the government coalition, which is probably appropriate. The supposedly budgetaryly responsible coalition for the third time has shown us how it intends to manage. First, new positions and positions at the Office of the Government, then new Deputys for their friends and ministries through the amendment of the Service Act, and now even on the TV board. Six. Transitional provisions on the way the newly created seats of members of the Czech Television Council are filled and on the occupation of candidates elected by the Senate on both councils remain unconstitutional according to my opinion. According to the House press, no one is losing the effectiveness of the Act on Function, yet three aspects cannot be overlooked. (a) The seats following members of the Council, whose six-year mandate has expired, shall be occupied differently in the television and radio Council. While the first three seats on Czech television, which will be released after the law is effective, will take place without any other new members elected by the Senate, there will be a lottery at the Czech Radio, where six members will be selected to choose new or new members of the Chamber of Deputies. This is really great, Minister of Culture! We'll draw lots. I hope the notary will be present. In summary, six new members elected by the Senate will come to the TV board next year by approving this draft. And the radio board may not be dependent on the lottery ticket, but by six years at the latest, three new members. In this I see, I think, another unconstitutional element. At the same time, it seems illogical to me why six seats in the Czech Radio Council will be drawn from the seats of the MPs instead of the three seats of the Senators. Maybe the Minister will explain that. But in such a long piece of nonsense, it would be difficult to find something meaningful, let alone logical. So I'm sure we'll have to, and we've got a notary here, just to remind you, Mr. Kohoutek, he's a notary, so he might as well cover it all notary and put a round stamp on the draw. (b) If the rule is that the chairman is to be elected by one chamber and vice-chairman of the board elected by the other chamber, then the Council of Czech Television will not have equal access to functions. With the proposed transitional provisions in force, a member elected by the Senate would be likely to be in charge of one-to-two, while a member of the Board elected by Members elected by one-to-four. And after the current law, there would be a change in the ratio of one to five, or one to eleven, respectively. Different conditions would be with the Radio Council, with the House of elected members one to seven and with the Senate elected one to two. As I said before, the law should not specifically define internal conditions for the choice of functionaries of independent institutions. Moreover, when the amendment will be effective, the Czech Television Council will lose all the Vice-Presidents and will not be able to be filled until the election of the members of the Czech Council by the Senate. So I don't want to know - probably on the basis of a lottery ticket, if the board chairman gets sick, then the board will have to meet, and maybe on the basis of a lottery ticket, someone will be running the board meeting. [[12.40 hours]] If the President of the Czech Television Council were not present in this situation, yes, the Council could not meet, act and make simple decisions at all, according to the amendment. A similar situation would, of course, occur with the Council of Czech Radio, where the Council would be without Vice-Presidents until the first meeting and a new election could take place after the draw, or a re-election in the functions of President and Vice-President. I just have to say that I haven't really seen anything in the House before, that we've been drawing lots, especially in the explanatory report of the law. With members of the Council - (c) - Czech television also cannot rule out the challenge of the entire legislative process, when the government of the five-calice wants to weaken the weight of their votes before the election of the new CEO in 2023, at the last minute. Again, the change in the number of members of the Czech Television Council is not justified. In the submitted amendment, I see nothing beneficial for public media. Each line smells how quickly it was written and how no one has dealt with the real functioning of public media control bodies. All I see is Halabal cloaked steps leading to control and interference with their independence at Council level. I am watching the government's incredible efforts to enforce the amendment of the law at all costs and, through the Senate, to impose six additional members representing the government's five-calice and these new six members elected by the Senate next year and six new members elected by the House this year to order whom they are to elect as CEO of Czech Television. This year they have tried the directive when they ordered their Members to vote on the election of members of the Czech Television Council. We've witnessed it. We didn't participate in this as opposition. When they failed to make a secret choice, the ODS, who always claimed that personnel issues were decided in a secret vote, and government MPs put their television advice there in their own image. The amendment that lies here does not improve and improve the state of public media. It does not regulate misconfigured relations between the Board and the Director-General or inaccuracies. It is not just me, but also the councillors and CEOs of Czech Television and Czech Radio Petr Dvořák and René Zavoral. Last year in an interview for Hospodářské noviny, for example, the CEO of Czech Television said: "Let's face it, this law is not explicit." And he added to the ČT Council - I quote: "The biggest problem is that they deal with individualities instead of long-term strategies." I respect the independence of the public media and I understand their role very well, I have worked for them myself, but I also watch each of the participants bend the law in their favour. So when I start with the CEO, who said last February that the board should pursue a long-term strategy, the board did it and did it before. This January, the ČT Council discussed the long-term plans for the programme, technical, personnel and economic development of Czech Television for the years 2022 to 2026. Right in the opening words of Petr Dvořák on this issue I am reading - I quote: "Czech TV will be able to continue broadcasting the program ČT3, which is from a qualitative point of view among the most successful stations of Czech TV." Date February 9, 2022. Cut. Petr Dvořák's press conference of 31 May 2022: Czech Television plans cuts of CZK 910 million by 2024. This includes, inter alia, the cancellation of the ČT3 broadcast. I say this in short as an example of the functioning of television, when the Director General calls for an extension of the possibility of, for example, deduction of VAT, so that Czech Television can broadcast ČT3, but because of one voice of a media-loud TV supporter who is not coming to the House meeting, and I think we know which director it was, this proposal is not approved. The VAT Act goes to the Senate, which returns it due to the deduction of VAT for ČT. We're almost meeting here at an emergency meeting, and eventually, when television has received a VAT deduction, a long-term plan is approved, so from one day to the day the CEO will announce cuts and layoffs to citizens? These are the things that we should probably be dealing with here instead of how to control the public service media after the model of Poland and Hungary. We should deal with this in the form of a law. Not whether TV cancels ČT3 or ČT2 but how the operation of the public service media or the media is dealt with in the long term, as the mechanisms between the Board and the Director-General are set up, at which point the Director-General decides and when he has to discuss his actions with representatives of the public, i.e. with members of the board, and to have his actions approved. I confess that I did not understand what took place on the Kavčí Mountains from February to May that such a major turnaround had taken place. And neither did the CEO at the press conference. We know that licence fees are not increasing, and that is what the long-term plan has been counting on. Perhaps the Director-General was terrified by the rise in costs and commitments that he had to turn the wheel and that the long-term plans would be unrealistic after three months and that he would not be able to draw up a budget for next year, let alone keep the TV running in 2023, when he is considering another defense at the Director-General's post. Or maybe not, we'll see. But back to public media laws. Each of us who sat in the council knows that the council decides on the sale of the land or the zoning plan that according to the law the mayor of the municipality must come for example Bokovec and the Mayor of Prague to the council and there to get the votes and the necessary resolution in order to take further steps. And it is up to us, to the satisfaction of the listeners and viewers of the public media, to set the roles, functioning and relationships of the actors in the law correctly and accurately, taking into account the developments that have occurred in the media and public services themselves, so that we have public media that will benefit our viewers and listeners. In order to have media that preserve their identity, which will develop, sell and document our culture in the broadest possible sense, which will be relevant and respected and which will bring unique content. Only in this way, if they are original, can they succeed in this globalised world of media and information and entertainment providers, where the brand and place of origin are not much to look at. I take this as a challenge and a basis for working on new legislation, not proposals, perhaps lamentations from older colleagues who would like to vote on members of the media council. Personally, I look beyond the limits of one parliamentary term. That is why I will continue as chairman of the electoral committee in other seminars precisely so that we can understand more deeply how public service media and media generally operate in the 21st digital century. That is why I have here, of course, a complaint against the Minister of Culture, Mr Baxa, because of course there has been some initiative that should deal with the big amendment to the Czech Television Act, but none of the opposition Members has been invited to this initiative. So far, there's just no one there, probably no one there, because this government five-wheeler, as I was just explaining, is continuing to want the public service media to swamp itself. She wants to decide for herself, she doesn't want any opinion of the opposition at all, that is, hundreds of thousands of voters who have given their vote to the opposition, she simply wants to enforce these laws on her own, by force, without any discussion and without any contribution from other opinions. I do not believe that in some time soon we would have a big amendment to the Czech Television Act here in the Chamber of Deputies. We've got a lot of other problems here that always have that Czech TV kind of background. That is why we should start working on this as quickly as possible if we wanted to discuss something like this here, and we should not be dealing with these very things that we are discussing here at the House's emergency meeting. [[12.50 hours]] I'm really disappointed. I'm disappointed in the government coalition. And I firmly believe that this bill will not pass. Therefore, I propose, and it is the position of the club of the YES movement, its rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u24	Good afternoon, colleagues. We have a few factual points right here. I just want to clarify that there will be a break between the 13th and the 14th hours of the club presidents' agreement. And I will read before I give the floor to the first logged in, which is with the de facto Minister Baxa, the apology that has run out in the meantime. Kohoutek Tomáš apologizes until 16 hours for health reasons, Síla Jan from 1.00 to 15.00 for health reasons and Ministers Balaš Vladimír from 12.00 and up to 14.00 for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day for work reasons and Síkela Jozef from the whole day for work reasons. So we will now proceed to factual remarks. First of all, Minister Baxa is signed in, followed by Mr Lacina. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u25	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I thank the President of the Election Committee for a very comprehensive view of the whole issue. We talked about this in some ways in detail, in some less detail personally. And I think there are certainly many topics that, even in the later debate, if the law is released for further reading, we will be able to discuss whether on the electoral committee or here in plenary. But I want to assure you, colleagues and colleagues, of one thing. I am sorry, Mr Juchelka, through the President of the Chamber of Deputies, but you seem to be suffering from a somewhat obsessive obsessive obsession with Mr Senator Smoljak, because you have given a rather significant part of the speech a detailed analysis of the proposals submitted by Senator Smoljak. I want to assure you and all of you here in the hall and those who are watching this debate that the proposal tabled by the Ministry of Culture is not a proposal by Senator Smoljak. Senator Smoljak has undoubtedly been very involved in this matter, he has given us some background, certainly discussing this with Mr Lacina. But I really want to assure everyone that we haven't brought in a kind of repainted proposal from Senator Smoljak. I appreciate his initiatives in favour of the public media, but his proposal contained some parts that we did not agree with, that is the question of a much more detailed definition of the conditions under which individual organisations can nominate their representatives and so on. Then it is only at the obsession of Senator Smoljak at Mr. Juchelka. And then I want to mention one more important thing. As far as the individual transitional provisions are concerned, we have complied with the proposal tabled by the Government Legislative Council. That, too, is important for it to be heard here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u26	Your time is up, Minister. You'll have to sign up again if necessary. Mr Lacina is now registered, followed by Mrs Mračková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for the floor. I am simply stressing that I am using this procedural remark to separate it from my role as rapporteur. I only wanted to comment on one thing from Mr Juchelka's long speech, which mentioned, among other things, that I am committed to paying the entire bonus to the Director-General for 2020. The fact is that I am engaged in the Council of Czech Television complying with the law. And if she voted five votes out of eleven and calls it a majority, we point out that this is not in accordance with the law. I would like to say that the electoral committee, under Mr Aleš Juchelka's presidency, has adopted a resolution three times to draw the attention of the Czech Television Council to this failure, but unfortunately it has not achieved anything, because the Council of Czech Television has merely stated that it has already made a decision on the matter and considers that the matter has been resolved. On that occasion, the President of the Council of Czech Television usually quotes me with the decision of one court, but in a completely different case, it was the case in which the Council of Czech Television called off its supervisory board. And now we have at our disposal the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which stated that this decision, too, was not in accordance with the law, that it was against the law. And the Supreme Administrative Court's decision, please, is final. Then I just wanted to add to that. We would like the Czech Television Council to comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for keeping time. It is now registered with the factual remark of Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and followed by Mr Jakob. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I would like to thank Aleš Juchelek for his performance as part of the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. I am very surprised that the Chamber of Deputies is discussing, according to the coalition, the most important law concerning the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio today at an emergency meeting. I believe that the citizens are suffering from something completely different, and that is an increase in energy prices, an increase in food prices, an increase in fuel prices. And the fact that we're dealing with this amendment here today, even at an emergency meeting where you want to increase the number of councilmen from 15 to 18, doesn't really seem absolutely correct to the citizens. At the same time, it does not seem absolutely correct to me that the chairman of the electoral committee decided, and it has always been the rule that, if a government proposal was submitted, the rapporteur was an opposition MP. The fact that it was presented this way and then on the organizational committee in quotation marks by voting per rollam it was overvoted and today it was overvoted here again, is another foul of this coalition. This coalition, which has written in its programming statement that it will cooperate with the opposition. Therefore, allow me to propose a procedural proposal at the moment, so that the rapporteur is not Martin Kolovratník, because we cannot vote on it, but Ondřej Babka, who is also a member of the electoral committee. And I would ask you to vote immediately on this procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. A procedural proposal to amend the rapporteur was made. I therefore have to vote on this proposal, given that it is a procedural proposal. So I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out, too, so we can rejoin our I.D. cards. I'm asking you to sign in. Since we're not a quorum, I can't vote. [[Only the left side of the bench is filled in the hall.]] As you can see on the device, there are not enough colleagues and colleagues present in the hall to vote, but there is not enough kvorum. I shall therefore wait to see if my colleagues and colleagues come to the vote in sufficient numbers. Given the announced break from 13:00, the meeting at 13:00 will be adjourned within 14:00. However, now the kvora is still not reached. [[Coalition MPs are starting to come into the hall.]] For the new Members, I would like to remind you that a procedural proposal has been tabled by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, and this proposal is for the amendment of the rapporteur to this press. There is still no deal, so I really can't vote. And there's still another login coming in. Once again, this is a change in the rapporteur. I will therefore begin the vote, because the treaty has already been reached, and I ask who is in favour of Mr Kolovratník becoming the rapporteur of this press? [[Grandma?]] Who's against it? Voting number 5, 103 in attendance, for 36, versus 60. The motion was denied. Let's keep going, then. With a factual point, the President of the TOP 09 Jakob is now registered. I'm aware that a break should be announced in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u31	Well, thank you. I'll try to make it. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is about increasing the independence of media councils. What's going on here, and my colleague Juchelka has made it clear, he's going on here, he said he's taking it, he's taking it... [[Some Members are already leaving the hall.]] So I'm gonna ask for a de facto one more time after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u32	Yes, it is 13 o'clock. I think we're usually more generous, but apparently colleagues from the left side of the spectrum would like a break. So I'm declaring a one-hour break by 14 o'clock. And as soon as it is over, the Member will have the opportunity to complete his point of order, from which he has about one minute to 30 seconds left, and we will continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u33	Well, hello. Have a good afternoon. It's 14 o'clock and we can continue our negotiations again. I merely recapitulate, we have been in the general debate, there have been factual remarks and Mr Jan Jakob, President of the TOP 09, spoke on a factual point, and he has been interrupted during the course and I have information that he has a minute and a half left. So please, Mr. Ambassador, let's count it to be fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue. As I was saying, the amendment increases the independence of public service media councils. It's clear. The experiments have been here in the past, but the House has never naturally passed because the House did not want to take that right. [[leave]] And what's going on here today? We're witnesses here, let's drink pure wine, and the opposition here is blaming us for controlling the public service media, and the proposal is completely opposite. I guess I'm judging by you. And Mr Juchelka, through Madam President, actually admitted that he had said that he saw this in the long run from the perspective of the next term. So it is obvious that the opposition does not want to give up that right so that the Chamber of Deputies can withdraw these councils. She doesn't want to allow that choice to diversify, to divide into the Senate. They're probably just counting on the fact that someday, God forbid, if the cards turn, they want that authority. That's what this is about. We want to increase the independence of the public service media, the opposition on the contrary and will fight for it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, even for keeping time. And now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, then Mrs Berenika Peštová, and then Mr Jakob, again, is in order. So please, Mr. Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll start from the back. Mr Jakob probably does not know what he is talking about, because the Chamber of Deputies can already call off the council, and it even happened during the last parliamentary term when Councilwoman Hana Lipovská was called off by the Chamber of Deputies. So he can. And that's what you're going to do, because you didn't approve the Czech Television reports twice under the old law, so that you could exchange the advice here if you couldn't enforce this pasquil amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. On September 14th, we had an exit election committee in Ostrava. It's like a record on the House of Deputies website, you can listen to it with the whole argument that the government coalition here didn't approve a report on the activities of Czech Television last year. The argument was clear: because the bonus was not granted to the Director-General. According to the government coalition, it has been approved illegally, as Mr Lacina here said, through you. But Mr Lacina, through you, is not a judge. He can't just say what was legal, what was illegal. He's a legislator, but he's no judge. If the Director-General wants him to be paid the full bonus, he'll have to file a lawsuit with the court and make sure the court decides in some way. But in order for Members to be judges and legislators to be judges, we return before 1989, and Mr Lacina's power confuses too much how the legislator and the judge should behave. 14. 9. there is a full record, and it is just that the great defender of the General Director's bonus has the Director-General in Mr Lacin. [[Time.]] That's all. It's about the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. And for the record, there are now five applications for actual notes. The first is now Mrs Berenika Peštová. I don't see her in the hall, so at this point, the note is failing. And since Mr Jakob has responded, I assume he wants to respond to another speaker. You're in order, you're logged in. You're in order now, Mr. Ambassador. And Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. I have to respond to my colleague Juchelka, who says I don't know what I'm talking about. I'm afraid it's the other way around that he doesn't know what he's talking about. The bill is that the Chamber of Deputies will not be able to call off the entire council after not approving two annual reports, and that is a good thing. And what was going on on the committee that we didn't, by chance, receive two reports or recommend not to accept the House, so I don't see for myself the reason that the council should then be called off, that's the next step. What we have recommended is the content of the two reports, where there are very fundamental problems that have been named on the committee. And I have to turn against what's still fallen here. Of course we're not judges. We certainly don't want to judge anyone here. But there was a trial, and it made a clear decision. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. And now, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Robert králíček will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u40	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to respond to the procedural vote that took place here before 14 o'clock, and I would like to object to that vote, which is that at that moment you did not chair this Chamber of Deputies, but Mrs Markéta Adamová, who put forward a vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to Martin Kolovratník. But my proposal was to change the rapporteur, on Ondřej Babka. So I would ask you to vote on the proposal I made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. It sounded. So I'm gonna go on, so it's a procedural motion of objection. Zagonguji, I'll call my colleagues and colleagues to the O.R. And I'll repeat what was said. I'll call again. There was therefore an objection that a motion for a different vote had been put forward, namely not to change the rapporteur to Mr Kolovratník, but to Mr Babka. I'll check everyone out. Please log in with your ID cards again. And I'm gonna do it again. We are voting on Mrs Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová's procedural objection to voting on the rapporteur's name. It was to be Mr Babka, according to Mrs Babka, who voted on Mr Martin Kolovratník. I think it's clear to everyone what we're going to vote on. Whoever is in favour of this objection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this objection? In voting number 6, 102 Members and Members were enrolled, for they were 51, against 26. The result is that this has not been accepted. This claim was rejected. We are going back to the written factual remarks, where Mr Robert králíček is currently registered, prepared with his factual rapporteur, Jan Lacina. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u42	I would like to respond to President Jakob. I really like the way he's defending this proposal here and saying that Mr Juchelka doesn't know anything about it, and the only thing that highlights there is that the Chamber of Deputies will no longer be able to call off the councilmen. Oh, yeah, 'cause you're gonna expand them now and choose a comfortable majority, so you're gonna take that authority from the Chamber of Deputies. And if it's so snow-white perfect, then why didn't you even have the courage to give the newsletter to Martin Kolovratník? You guys made it look good. You're acting like totalitarianism!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, the rapporteur. Mr Juchelka shall then take action. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. I have to turn against Mr. Juchelka's claim that we're playing court. As an election committee, we don't play court. However, we want the Czech Television Council to decide in accordance with the law. And if they're 11 and they vote for a five-man majority and they call it a vote, I can count, I wouldn't even need to go to high school for that. To know that 5 out of 11 isn't most. The only instrument that the Election Committee can show to the Council of Czech Television is the non-approval of the annual report, and that is what we have done. So I'd like to make an easy point. Mr. Kolovratník - who had ambition, like me, to become rapporteur for this press, and Mr. Juchelka, we dealt with this for hours, so it wasn't so that one determined someone and the other would then get stuck in there - so he is the shadow minister of transport, please nicely, with this education. My education is media studies and I was on the government team of Pirates and starosta for culture, media and tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka, now with his point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, too. First of all, the government coalition 14. 9. - and we were all on that election committee, all of us who belong there could, of course, be there, and those who don't, so they can listen to the record. It is not true, Mr Jakob, through your Madam President, that you voted on the recommendation not to adopt the report on the activities of Czech Television because of its content. On the contrary, it was said several times on the record that you were satisfied with the report on the activities of Czech Television, but that, as Mr Lacina says, through you, you do not have any other leverage to punish the Council of Czech Television. So don't tell me you didn't agree to the content of the activity report because you're insulting all employees of Czech Television. All those who participated in the report, which is great, wonderful, pampered, true. And you're only doing this because the CEO's bonus hasn't been approved or, as you say, against the law. If the board as a whole is not to be called off, it doesn't matter, we'll just be here ten minutes longer. Well, if you want to call off the board as a whole, you'll call off the councillors. Councilwoman Lipovská has been called off like this, so you have the leverage. You can say 'I'm calling this councilman off' on the election committee, and the Chamber of Deputies will in some way confirm that. I have no obsession with Mr Smoljak, but let's pour some pure wine, Minister, as it is. You didn't come up with this: I'm gonna make a little amendment to the Czech Television Act, hop, let's all do it. No, you were pushed by your coalition colleagues, and that's how you did it, and that's how you did it, and that's how you did it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. The next is Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, with the actual registration. Then again, Mr Robert králíček and three other colleagues. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to say the following about the previous vote. I did not object to the President's procedure. I have drawn attention to a new vote on the proposal, which was wrongly presented here by the President, who was chairing the Chamber of Deputies at that time, which was Markéta Pekarová Adamová. So your procedure wasn't right. You should have put to the vote on the right proposal that I have proposed here, and the proposal was to change the rapporteur to Ondřej Babka, and again I call on you to put this proposal to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u49	So I'll take that as a procedural proposal. I'll rejoin and call my colleagues and colleagues to the O.R. He wants priority rights on the procedural proposal... [[Member Jakob is reporting.]] The colleague may, if necessary, make a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u50	I believe that the President has done the right thing. In your speech, it was said that you were making a motion against the mismanagement of the President who presided before the pause. So the proposal was absolutely certain... or the procedure was correct. Of course, if you put the motion to change the rapporteur, we'll vote on him. I just firmly believe that we will not be approving the proposals for changing the rapporteur over and over again all afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u51	There was no counterproposal, please. It's just that I assumed he was. So we're going back to signing everyone off. Please sign up again with your voting cards. I shall repeat, therefore, the proposal to vote de facto on the amendment of the rapporteur, so that Mr Babka becomes rapporteur. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal to amend the rapporteur? Who opposes the proposal to amend the rapporteur? In voting number 7, 106 Members and Members were enrolled, for 47, against 53. This proposal for amendment of the rapporteur was rejected. We're gonna... [[Mrs Pest is reporting for the floor.]] If it's for the vote...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u52	I object to the way you run this House. If Mr Jakob comes forward and doesn't counter-proposal here and he talks all the time before the other Members do, that is wrong. This means that I object to the way you run the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u53	Yes, that's your right, of course. So I'll reengage if anyone leaves the O.R. I call on my fellow Members to vote. I am opening the vote on the objection raised to my procedure. Whoever is in favour of this objection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this objection? In voting number 8, 120 Members and Members were enrolled, for 50, against 69. This claim was not accepted. I now assume that we can go back to the debate where five colleagues and colleagues are now signed up with factual remarks on the previous course of the debate. The first is Mr Robert králíček, who will be prepared by Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u54	We are merely witnessing how the coalition translates the Rules of Procedure and does what it wants with us. But I would have responded to Mr. Lacina. He is not only in the role of judge, but now also in the position of cadre. So we're back before 1989. He will castrate for us, he will castrate for us, the decision of the President of the Election Committee, that he will appoint someone who has been dealing with the media for twenty years, who was the director of the Czech Radio in the Eastern Bohemia region. But they're just gonna castle, and if we don't like it, we're gonna run and sue the President, and then she's gonna name us the rapporteur after all. So that's the new political culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with Mrs Berenika Peštová in fact, Mrs Nina Nováková will prepare herself. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u56	I also wanted to respond to the rapporteur. Because I didn't really understand the comment he had here, which means how you mentioned here who did or didn't do what and who's an expert or isn't an expert. So maybe you'd be emasculating me in the way and according to which key this government was drawing up. So I don't see a lot of experts in there, and they run ministries that they have absolutely nothing to do with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u57	I am asking Members to address me through me. Nina Nováková, with her actual application, is now in session. Mr Aleš Juchelka can also be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I have three comments here. Mr Juchelka, through you, is constantly dissecting how the debate in Ostrava took place at the meeting of the Election Committee 14. 9. 2022 and that we all didn't recommend approval of the annual report for some reward. I have two comments about that. I am repeatedly, and on every election committee, I say that I am not satisfied with how complaints are handled. And I always ask whether there is enough pressure on the management, the director of Czech Television, to deal with those complaints. That's why I questioned the annual report. The second thing is to praise the work of the director and praise the preparation of the annual report are two different categories. Third thing. Mr Juchelka understands the matter, and I am therefore sorry that he deliberately constantly criticizes the Chamber of Deputies on the ground. She was unacceptable to me. I criticized her when the Senate committee spoke of her. And the novel wasn't submitted. Now we're supposed to talk about what we're going to vote on in the future. And the last thing that concerns the Board's appeal. The point is that each of the chambers will be responsible for the work of the respective number of councillors, and will be responsible for them in the sense that if they do not work well, he has a chance to call them off. And again, it mixes with the fact that it is not possible, according to this little amendment, to remove the board as a whole, or continuity - [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u59	Time, please. I'm so sorry. I've got to keep everyone's time the same way. I'm so sorry, but it's true. Need (?) is Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Stanislav Berkovec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u60	I'll just finish my obsession with the senator. It's not like that. The senator here has been preparing a new media bill for several years. He's very active in this. I'm sure you've inspired yourself, Minister. It wasn't like you were the Minister of Culture, or your ministry, the instigator of this little amendment to the Czech Television Act. It's just not like that. You're here on a tow of activist MPs. They came to you, told you how it was going to be. You have some kind of government agreement, I respect that, and of course you're acting accordingly. But don't tell us here that when the head is on the law, it's the Ministry of Culture, that you were preparing it from A to Z. It's not so. Mrs. Nina Nováková, through yours, said something here about the election, the removal of the councilmen. Of course, that can happen now at this point. You don't have to do this with a new amendment to the law. For the time being, no one has explained to me why the proposal that says the Czech Television Council should have three more mandates, why the government coalition is doing this, why the 18-member Council of Czech Television, even numbers, and why the nine-member Council of Czech Radio should be an odd number. What makes them say that? Why? Why can't the Czech Television Council be just as much as the Czech Radio? Well, because it's just the choice next year. Why are we having an emergency House meeting here? It's not because it's legislation that's in such a big hurry because our energy, water, we need a windfall tax and all that. No. All we have here is this special meeting on the committee week because you want to keep an eye on the CEO's election next year. It's just obvious, it's obvious. That's why you're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for keeping time. Now signed up with Mr Stanislav Berkovec, who I do not see present in the hall, so he is not here, so he is failing factually. And by doing so, we have exhausted the facts and can return to the general debate on the duly registered ones. As far as applications are concerned, I have here, if I'm not mistaken, with the priority right of Mr. Vice-President of the SPD Radek Rozvoral Club, who is now entrusted with the priority right for the club. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Mr Minister, in my speech I would like to comment on today's Government Bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. On behalf of the SPD's parliamentary club, I note here that we will in no way support this government bill and we have a number of reservations about it. [[We are.]] Resolutely against the extension of the number of councillors and the election of a third of the councillors by the Senate. As stated in the explanatory memorandum of this bill, both the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act were adopted in 1991 and amended several times since then. As regards the system of election and withdrawal of the Board of Czech Television, Act No. 39/2001 Coll., amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, and on the amendment of some other laws. By this law, the number of members of the Czech Television Council has been increased from 9 to 15 and a new method has been laid down for submitting proposals for candidates for members of the Czech Television Council. These proposals were submitted to the Chamber of Deputies by organisations and associations representing cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological and national interests within a specified period following the publication of the call by the President of the Chamber of Deputies to submit a proposal. At the same time, Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in which an election committee was set up for the purposes of the election of members of the Czech Television Council. The amendment to the Czech Television Act also modified the replacement of a third of the members of the Czech Television Council every two years. A similar change was made in the Czech Radio Act Act No. 192/2002 Coll., amending Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and on the amendment of other laws. The number of members of the Czech Radio Council has been maintained in the number of 9 members. The system of designing candidates for board members and the replacement of a third of members after two years has always been modified in a similar way to the Czech Television Council. At the same time, the election committee of the Chamber of Deputies was extended to select members of the Czech Radio Council. As further stated in the explanatory memorandum, the main objective of the proposed regulation is to enable both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to vote for members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. Parliament as a whole is a representative of the public. Members of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate elect the public as their representatives to exercise legislative power and to exercise the powers conferred by law. The principle of the proposed legislation is to achieve the involvement of the two chambers of Parliament in the election and withdrawal of members of the Boards of Public Media. Their members are elected by different systems and thus represent a comprehensive representation of the citizens of the Czech Republic. In relation to the subjects proposed by the Chamber of Deputies for members of the Council under the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act, it is proposed to strengthen the representative element of such subjects and to re-establish the time condition for their existence. This will ensure the desired representativeness of the candidates proposed for members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. [[14.30 hours]] The explanatory memorandum also states that, in addition to the relevant amendment to the legislation, which ensures the involvement of the Senate in the establishment of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council, the purpose of the proposed draft law is to ensure the desired representativeness of the candidates proposed on the members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. So much for the explanatory note. The SPD movement strongly opposes the Senate's involvement in the establishment of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council in some way, since on average, the new senators vote for less than a fifth of the eligible voters, which certainly does not indicate that they can decide in the interests of all our citizens. I will give a specific example of the Senate elections held in October 2022, and 27 new senators were elected, i.e. a third of the total of 81 senators. Election participation in the second round was only 16,7 %. In this year's Senate election, it was 19.4 %. It is quite clear to all present here what power the media have and how it can be used to promote the interests of certain political actors. This is mainly about news shows. Our movement has long pointed out that the main news programmes broadcast by the Czech Television are targeted at promoting the interests of the current government coalition and praising the European Union. This is unacceptable for our SPD movement and contrary to the Czech Television Act. Act of the Czech National Council No. 483 of 7 November 1991 on Czech Television quotes in Section 2 and in Section 3 its mission and main tasks. Now, let me remind myself of the most important things. Paragraph 2 states: Paragraph 2 1: Czech Television provides services to the public through the creation and dissemination of television programs or other multimedia content and ancillary services throughout the Czech Republic in order to meet the democratic, social and cultural needs of society and the need to maintain media pluralism. Paragraph 2 2: The main tasks of the public service in the field of television broadcasting are in particular: (a) the provision of objective, verified, balanced and versatile information in its entirety for the free creation of opinions; (b) contributing to the legal awareness of the population of the Czech Republic; (c) the creation and dissemination of programmes and the provision of a balanced offer of programmes for all groups of people, taking into account the freedom of their religious beliefs and beliefs, culture, ethnic or national origin, national identity, social origin, age or gender, in order to reflect the diversity of views and political, religious, philosophical and artistic directions, with a view to strengthening mutual understanding and tolerance and promoting the coherence of a pluralist society; (d) developing the cultural identity of the citizens of the Czech Republic, including members of national or ethnic minorities; (e) production and broadcasting, in particular, of news, publicist, documentary, artistic, dramatic, sporting, entertaining and educational programmes and programmes for children and youth. This I have introduced to you the basic tasks and missions of Czech Television, where the only body that oversees this and has the task of controlling it is the Council of Czech Television, see Section 4 of the Act. Paragraph 4 states: The Czech Television Council is the body which exercises the right of public control over the activities of Czech Television. The Council shall have 15 members. Members of the Board shall elect and dismiss: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in such a way that significant regional, political, social and cultural currents are represented. Paragraph 5 states: The Council is responsible for its work to the Chamber of Deputies. [[correctly in § 4 para. 5]] And this also now tells us that the current government coalition is fully aware that it will control the news programs. This is fundamentally rejected by our SPD movement, and we also advocate that the Supreme Audit Office be able to control the management of Czech Television and Czech Radio in the long term. These institutions receive money from citizens in the form of licence fees, or property charges and the use of television and radio broadcasting. This obligation is imposed on users of television and radio receivers by law. It is logical, therefore, that citizens should be given information on how the said institution manages these considerable funds and that information should also be made available to the public about the salaries of the leading employees of these institutions, including their remuneration - this automatically applies to the CEO - and elected councillors and members of the supervisory commission of Czech Television. Contracts concluded by the Czech Television with entities that provide their services to Czech Television should also be publicly accessible. For information, I'll mention the status of the management. The Czech Radio has a planned balanced budget of CZK 2.2 billion for 2022, with the largest part of the revenue for radio charges, which is about 90 percent. Radio records approximately 3.8 million radio receivers logged in. Czech TV is running a budget of CZK 7.2 billion this year, which is 235 million more than last year's budget. The number of its employees is around 2,900 in the long term. According to the Director General's statement, Czech Television is about to be fired and is also said to be forced to cancel the latest ČT program, ČT3 station, which will stop broadcasting from January 2023. By 2024 public service television must save CZK 910 million and other solutions than to raise licence fees for television broadcasting, CEO Petr Dvořák does not see. Dvořák has been performing this highest position on Czech Television since 2011 and has only improved his reward by tens of millions of crowns. If he were a really good manager, he would certainly find a way to save money in order to preserve the mission of Czech television, which I mentioned in this speech. It raise licence fees is the easiest way to get more money into the institution without costing Czech TV management any effort. They're appealing. with an increase of this amount from the current 135 crowns to 150 crowns. However, the SPD movement is a different opinion and already in 2020 we have included in the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to the law so that the licence fees of Czech Television and Czech Radio do not have to be paid by old-age pensioners, disabled pensioners and single parents. We believe that it is precisely these population groups that should be cheaper to live, not to charge them, with the fact that these population groups are also entitled to the service of the public media, free of charge. The exemption of seniors, disabled persons and other persons with low incomes does not substantially affect the income of both companies, which can also easily replace them with savings, or the start of production of quality programmes, by selling other entities (?) on the market. This is the opinion of the SPD movement on the amount of licence fees of Czech Television and Czech Radio. I will now move on to how this public media plays a very important role in providing unbiased and unbiased information in line with ensuring democracy. That is not the case, there are a number of complaints and complaints to investigate on Czech television. From a large number of these complaints, I will mention only a few. Probably most of you received a letter from Mr. Jiří Vlček, who represents parents damaged by the program Infiltration: Trade in Hope. In the letter it expresses what is actually the public service that the Czech Television is supposed to provide. Furthermore, I would like to quote a part of the letter sent. I quote: It is these days that we are filing a comprehensive complaint at the Czech Television Council that shows that Czech television has failed in the past in what rules public institutions should comply with. At first, with the help of a hidden camera, our underage children were spying on the autistic spectrum disorder in therapy, editing a program full of half-truths that secretly sided one interest group, letting the cut of the show escape into uncalled-for hands, broadcasting in violation of preliminary court action, ignoring all our efforts to correct or at least to dialogue. For details of our case, please visit www.infiltrace.cz. At present, we have no choice but to have two legal disputes with the Czech Television on this matter. End of quote. In addition, Mr Vlček states in his letter: Dear Member, we would like to ask you to consider, if it is appropriate for such an important institution, such as public television, to demand first of all the observance of the rules of journalistic ethics, respect for the code of conduct, respect for the conclusions of the courts and respect for the law on the protection of personal data. From our point of view, it is otherwise very difficult to defend against citizens that they should contribute more to the operation of Czech Television than they have been so far. [[14.40 hours]] Now I would mention only a few cases of large quantities where Czech television has violated the principles of objectivity of news programmes in the past. Case one. The Radio and Television Council warned Czech Television that at the beginning of April 2021, Newsroom ČT24 committed a violation of the Act on Radio and Television Broadcasting. News.cz informed about it. . Newsroom is trying to mentor other media in the country, how to do journalism properly. It was a program in which the ČT threw dirt at the chairman of the SPD movement and other members of the SPD. Then, for example, Daniel Landa, Janek Ledeckýý and other personalities, they spread disinformation. So, on the contrary, it turns out that misinformation itself spreads Czech television. On 5 April 2021 there was a contribution called The Most High Czech Disinformers during the pandemic. According to the Radio and Television Council, the rankings of persons based on European value think-tank analyses were presented unilaterally at that time. The Council noted at the bank account of the Czech Television's contribution that it did not contain the views of experts who held different positions on the issue. The operator thus did not provide the viewers with the objective and balanced information necessary for the free creation of views, stating the resolution of the hearing held on 5 May. Case two. Pavel Matocha, President of the Czech Television Council, explained in an article for the Czech position why this monitoring body of public television was also obliged to state that in the case of the representation of the SPD in the broadcast, the Czech Television is breaking the law. These facts were also illustrated by graphs. The above graphs were provided to the Czech Television Board and are based on research by Media Tenor. Based on data from ČT, the Czech Television Council noted that the space devoted to the SPD in political news, especially in political discussions, is inadequately low due to its electoral results and the number of voters it represents. The space of the SPD in the Czech Television news and discussion programmes, compared to other political parties and movements, can be considered inadequate due to the representation of this party in the Chamber of Deputies, is also at the end of the annual report for 2020, approved by members of the Czech Television Council. Case three. On 8 August 2020, the Czech Television, led by activist Nora Fridrichová, broadcasts another purposefully manipulated report, which unilaterally showed that the SPD's proposal to abolish inclusion in education was condemned. The CT report was done on purpose to make it falsely appear that the SPD is against disabled children. The opposite is true. The SPD movement promotes the abolition of the existing concept of inclusion in education and, at the same time, we support the best possible teaching of disabled children in special schools, where they are provided with top professional care. The way of inclusion in Czech schools harms the quality of education both for children in normal teaching and for children with special access. Inclusion damages the quality of education for disabled children. They admired the top level of Czech special education in the world. In the last parliamentary term, the Czech Education Minister Kateřina Valachová pushed for ČSSD for the approval of the then coalition government of ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL. Three parents of disabled children who support inclusion and one psychologist who even described the SPD proposal as racist were speaking for the public in the ČT report. In the report, there was not one opinion of parents or experts who disagreed with inclusion. This is the balance in Czech Television. The TV just spit on our candidate for the Senate in Brno and also the director of the special high school Mgr Tomáš Anderle, who is an expert on the subject. However, his professional justification for our proposal did not broadcast. I must say that these constant scams and manipulations of Czech television for public money really go beyond everything. And the last, fourth example is recent. At its meeting on 9 August this year, the Radio and Television Council reprimanded the Czech Television for 168 hours, specifically for the same-sex marriage story broadcast on 12 June. According to the board, public television did not ensure that the principles of objectivity and balance were taken into account in this political-publicist programme. Another sloppy journalistic work by the Czech Television publicist was the statement of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council on the public programme ČT 168 hours of 12 June, which dealt with the so-called marriage for all in one of its reports. In fact, it is not all that this name is manipulative. According to the members of the Radio and Television Council, this programme, moderated by Nora Fridrichová, did not meet even the most basic standards of journalistic work, i.e. objectivity and balance, and rather resembled activist broadcasting. This, of course, does not correspond to the demands placed on the public content of the public media. As the broadcasting board recently said, in the report, the issue of the possible legalization of marriage for same-sex persons was presented unbalancedly in favour of the legalization of such marriages. According to RRTV, this is a breach of § 31 para. 3 of Law 231 of 2001, which states that the broadcasters are obliged to ensure that the principles of objectivity and balance are respected in news and political-publicist programmes and, in particular, that no political party or movements, or their views or opinions of individual groups of the public, have been unilaterally favoured in the whole of the broadcast programme. The report was conceived in a way that the approval of the same-sex marriage law represents in a positive light the right approach, whereas the views and arguments of the opponents of these marriages present as outdated and unacceptable nowadays. The broadcasters did not ensure that the principles of objectivity and balance are respected in this political-publicist programme. According to the press release at the meeting on 9 August, the Radio and Television Council also evaluated a total of 17 complaints from audiences and audiences, issued 9 alerts on violations of the law and decided to initiate one administrative procedure. At the end of my speech, I will remind you that we are still behind Czech Television and Czech Radio being a state contribution organization with a fixed budget under the control of the independent Supreme Audit Office. The SPD is refusing to support the proposed government amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, which is why I join the motion for rejection, which Mr Aleš Juchelka made here before me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u63	Thank you, marked. And before we go back to the general debate in which we have Mr Ondřej Babka enrolled, I will read the apologies that ran out in the meantime. Mr Andrej Babiš apologizes from 14 o'clock for business reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík from 14 to 15 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Eva Fialová from 11 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Taťána Malá from 14 to 16 o'clock for health reasons and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová from the whole day of the hearing for work reasons. And now, please, Mr. Ambassador, you can take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u64	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to speak to the matter, just a sigh of the fact that unfortunately, there were not a lot of five-calice Members who would listen to the speech of our President of the Election Committee, after which, if they had heard him and if they had thought a little bit about the subject matter and what this law brings, they would not be able to let him go, with a clear conscience, even through the first reading. So just to begin with such a sigh about the fact that unfortunately, unfortunately, the novel brings a lot of illogical things and probably goes to second reading today. [[14.50 hours]] The discussion of the Government Bill, which is to amend Act No.483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, Act No.484/1911 Coll., on Czech Radio, and Act No.90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the negotiation of these three laws that we have here today is not motivated by anything other than the efforts of the current government majority to assert the position of future CEO of the Czech Television to control its own person, and thus unbiasedly public television. And here to begin with, I am saying this because this amendment is presented to us and to the public as one that merely changes the choice of members of the Council and also involves the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, with which we can, of course, or may not agree, but what bothers me most is the process and timing that five-calices are trying to enforce. I'll explain later. We have three media public services in the Czech Republic. It is Czech Television, it is Czech Radio and it is Czech Press Office, CTK. And so, as I observe the efforts of the current government coalition, it is in their interest to privatise at least two of these institutions. And it may not be a privatisation in a literal sense, just as it was suggested by the current five coalitions, for example, in the case of Budějovice Budvar, the Czech Post or other assets that the state holds, but it is clearly an effort of five coalitions to dominate this institution and use it for its own benefit, even regardless of the reputation of this public service media. Unfortunately, the submitted amendment to Czech Television and Czech Radio is a purely political act. Its only and obvious aim is to control democratically elected control bodies of both public media in order to put candidates in these places immediately in any way connected or preferred by the government coalition. It's an unprecedented power move that no government has ever taken. And here I am saying this precisely because of the development of the amendment, as the previous amendment has already been introduced here, and how it is promoted to strength even in view of the earlier five-wheelers' successful or less successful elections to media councils. That's what we've been talking about. The goal of adopting this law is only the fastest possible political control of public media and the desire to control two of the strongest media houses in the Czech Republic. Often in the media environment, we hear strong criticism from colleagues from five-wheelers towards what is happening to the public service media in Poland or Hungary. At the same time, today's efforts are at the level of the steps that are being taken in these very states. In your coalition contract you directly state, i.e. the parties to the five-calice, that it is necessary to consider both the preservation and independence of public media. Dear colleagues, independence. You're talking about you can't underestimate the independence of public media. But it is your approach today that you systematically and drastically undermine this independence. When our movement was in the government, it had to deal with a sharp criticism from the editors of Czech Television or Czech Radio. More than once, these editors were very critical of our members of the government, perhaps too much, sometimes I even hear that Czech television is primarily too biased for us. But that's not what today's novel is about, and I don't want to discuss it here. But our government has never interfered in this unprecedented way with the basic principles of the functioning of the public service media. And she couldn't even de facto. If we did something similar to what you intend to do today, an endless wave of criticism would immediately fall upon us. But at this point, you're really going over dead bodies and you don't recognize any constructive criticism that might still sound here today, and unfortunately, you're not even willing to discuss these changes with us. I was here during the last parliamentary term in an effort only to allow a few councillors to complete the Council of Czech Television. And if I only imagined that here, with a similar bill that de facto changes the conditions of force in the council, we came, I can really vividly imagine your reaction. [[♪ We'd ♪]] For example, a colleague like Bartošek, who was the greatest defender of public media in the last parliamentary term, I can already see him jumping three meters into the air today, taking eight-hour breaks every eight hours, which you've totally given here is the choice of media councils. This approach of yours, which you take as a hostage by Czech TV and, of course, by the way, by the viewers of Czech TV, the concessionaire, is extremely dangerous. Today, you are completely undermining any trust of a large part of the population towards this public service medium in the future. And I'm not really saying this here as a criticism of Czech Television or Czech Radio, I'm always in this kind of reality, and I'm still convinced of the need for public media, their existence, the public rights of the media. I, and I repeat, only criticize your approach and your ideas on how to change these laws in your image and how you delay what problems these public media have and how you delay their solutions, or even the problems that public media currently has, you do not solve. Not with this little novel at all. And why are you doing this? Why do you feel that the Czech Television Council is not working properly? Do you feel that Czech Television or Czech Radio inform falsely? Do you feel like your Members have insufficient representation on the news programmes of Czech Television? Or do you feel that Czech Television or Czech Radio are publishing fake news? What's your bridge? the motivation for us here at a time of record inflation, the decline of Czech citizens into poverty, when a third of citizens have difficulty living out of their funds, at a time when the war is a few hundred kilometers, a few hundred kilometers away from us, in a period when the import prices of gas rose by almost 440 percent year on year, did the relatively well-functioning Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio address? Why are we having an emergency meeting on this subject? Why are you willing to stay here tonight and push for a little novel? I know the answer. It's very clear for me. In addition, both Czech Radio and Czech Television have long and repeatedly pointed out that they need to resolve their financing areas in particular. Instead of presenting this solution to the government coalition, it presents an amendment that addresses only and only the way the Czech Radio Council and the Czech Television Council are elected, but ignores the substantial shortcomings of both laws, such as their completely non-systemic differences in many points. And it's gone down here, too. Why, for example, should the Czech Television Council have three more members? Why should there be an even number of 18 if you leave the Czech Radio Council to an odd number of nine? It is an obvious contradiction, and again only the desire and effort for total control of counsel. You haven't explained why there should be 18 on Czech Television and nine on Czech Radio. As I have already mentioned, the coalition does not address the most important question, namely the financing of Czech Radio and Czech Television. Or, for example, the definition of a radio or television receiver, the definition of a taxpayer and so on. I will now pragmatically try to sum up my view of the proposed amendment on several points. The point is not to be revealed at the outset, but, as I have already indicated, this law is directly related to the election of the CEO of Czech Television. And you could call it not the amendment to the Czech Television Act and the amendment to the Czech Radio Act, but the Act on the election of the CEO in the spring of 2023. But one step at a time. [[15.00 hours]] Okay, first of all. As we all know, the election of the CEO falls exclusively within the competence of the Czech Television Council. Its composition is thus the only and decisive factor that can enable government parties to achieve the above-mentioned objective or, on the contrary, make it impossible. And that is exactly what it was and is the reason for the bill to be presented. The government majority in the current Czech Television Council, even after the June election of its six new members, is not sure of a sufficient number of reliable loyal votes, and therefore the composition of the Board from the Grunt, as it is said, has decided to change it systemically. And propos, for your permission. Do you remember this process, as previous attempts at election failed, because neither of the five-calice candidates received the necessary minimum number of votes, which led to the fact that the five-calice parties began to suspect each other logically and tried to find out who would not vote from the coalition as ordered from above? So it's finally over, and it's already been mentioned here, by a public-choice acclamation. This was a blunder in the form of denial of democratic principles, when your five-calice pushed for the election of the Czech Television Council to be public for the first time in history. So, when the five-wheelers failed to enforce obedience to their own Members in a good way, they bet on the way the Communist Party used before November 1989. And at this point, you denied yourself. And I have to quote again Zbyněk Stanjura from May last year when he said that we would support a secret choice. The secret choice is value and principle for us, and if something is value and principle for you, then you have to keep it at a time when it is not popular, when you do not get applause for it, otherwise it would not be the value you stand for, in which you have no boundaries or boundaries. Awkwardly arrogant was also the original plan from April this year: we will simply disperse them and choose the whole Czech Television Council. New, right, ours, 'cause we've got a hundred and eight, so we can afford it after Gotttwaldovsk. Fortunately, legislation at the Office of the Government does not have the brains blackened by the anti-Babiš obsession like some of you and remain professionals, and this original proposal has been completely torn apart, i.e. the first bill you wanted to send here, has not been recommended for discussion. And by the way, in that first proposal, you even wanted to call off all the councilmen at once. And even in that first proposal, you planned to reduce the number of councilmen. Strange. And now in the tense budget of Czech Television - because Czech Television finances the Czech Television Council - suddenly you raise the councilmen. Why do you think? So the Minister of Culture was asked to think of another way to the same goal and to revise the text accordingly. The result is now ahead of us. And despite the efforts made, probably on the edge of some sort of possibility, the awkward impression, this time of vain purpose, remained. All those who follow the situation around the functioning of public media in our country in the long term know that the regulation of existing legislation for the performance of public service tasks is becoming increasingly necessary. And all the more reprehensible is that the five-wheelers have focused only on one goal - and I repeat, through the deure election of the CEO of Czech Television next year de facto put their man on this post and thus dominate the Czech Television. Two. Since the mandate of the current director, CEO of Czech Television Petr Dvořák, will end in September 2023, the election of his successor must take place sometime next spring. Therefore, time is not needed by colleagues and colleagues from the five-wheelers. Either they push through the new law on Czech Television by the end of this year, or they will have to risk choosing the new CEO for the current one, the unreliable one, the board. That's why we have an emergency meeting on November 1, 2022, so we can make it. And that is precisely why we are now discussing the proposal literally a few days, a few months after the Senate elections, in which the government majority has verified that it has not lost its position in the upper chamber of Parliament. And why the Senate? In order for the future CEO of Czech Television to be your man, you are willing to sacrifice the remaining trust of citizens in Czech Television. In the explanatory memorandum, you state that the Senate is a public representative and that its involvement ensures the desired representativeness of the candidates proposed for members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. But dear colleagues, do you know who else is elected by Czech citizens and who is a representative of the public? Well, the president of the Republic. And the President of the Republic has a stronger mandate than any senator. Then why don't you admit to the President of the Republic in that amendment to the Public Service Act? Of course, at this point, I do not consider it necessary to involve the President in the election, although a few years back some of you have talked about this and there was a plan for the so-called tripod. So all we have left is a doppelganger and only the Senate's involvement. And about the Senate's legitimacy, there's been a few words here too. I'm here with my words and my speech today merely revealing your motivation. It is obviously not about ensuring representativeness here, but it is about ensuring that the five-wheelers secure a place for their people in the Czech Television Council and subsequently the position of CEO, as well as trying to do five-wheelers in other institutions and councils. However, only Czech TV and its declining trust will be affected by the bit. The current system of choice of media advice has worked fairly and is set well, even if it is not necessary to be completely perfect. The adoption of the amendment and the senseless step in changing the choice of media councils are, however, an undemocratic step. It is just a political instrument of the ruling coalition, which will be the whip to the public service media and threaten their stability, independence and objectivity. Colleagues, colleagues from government parties, if you claim that the enforcement of this law is not motivated by your efforts to control Czech TV, let us postpone their negotiations for six months after the election of the new CEO of Czech Television and thus the start of a new management. [[his]] Third, then. The fact that even six months ago, government parties intended to cut the number of councillors from fifteen to twelve under the pretext of savings shows how unfinished and sewed with a hot needle the proposal for a new law was presented. On the contrary, in this amendment, the proposal to extend the Council by three additional members is now being proposed, so that a sufficient number of councillors can also vote for the Senate, so that even wider public control of the activities of public Czech television has been ensured. It seems to be a step worthy of real democrats. Really only seemingly, because if the government of the Czech Television is at stake and there is no reason to legally remove the mandate of the already elected councillor, so can the Senate. Especially if we have enough sympathetic senators and senators in it after the election. All we have to do is repeat - how awkwardly transparent. [[15.10 hours]] And the maths to make us realize that. At present, two thirds of the councillors, ten out of fifteen, must raise their hand for the new CEO. Two-thirds-- ten out of fifteen. The law, this amendment, increases our councillors to eighteen, but the world's wonder, we've lost two thirds of it somehow. It will be enough for us to choose and withdraw the Director-General only an absolute majority, i.e. ten out of eighteen. You've got to be kidding me! Can it be even more transparent? For I will remind you that in the first original amendment you wanted to send here, and thanks to which you wanted to elect all fifteen new members of the board, i.e. your reliable ones, so in the law, in the first version, on the contrary, you tightened these conditions. You put two-thirds of the councilmen needed at eleven out of fifteen, you even tightened it up, and now all you have to do is find out that you can't call off the board and choose all 15 new people there, so on the other hand, you're reducing it to eleven out of eighteen to get your numbers. Fourthly, to end constructively, the new Czech Television Act should be a response to the real problems that have arisen in the public service mechanism in recent years. The hottest ones are: (a) new, current conditions corresponding to the establishment of a public service and subsequently an adequate change in the way and scope of financing of Czech Television and Czech Radio; (b) the establishment of legal personality of the Czech Television Council. If the board does not have it today, all the technical analyses it needs to perform its statutory control function must provide the management of Czech Television with everything that follows from this procedure; (c) if the Council of Czech Television is not to obtain this legal personality in the future, repeated failure to comply with the Council's resolution by the management of television must be included as grounds for appeal by the Director-General, otherwise the Board will in fact remain toothless in the recovery of deficiencies in the performance of public service tasks, as is the case so far; (d) if, for example, the possibility of being elected president of our country or president of the SAO for a maximum of two consecutive parliamentary periods, there is no meaningful reason, in my view, why the Director-General of Czech Television should defend his six-year mandate without a similar restriction, ad absurdum in fact endlessly. Of course, I will be happy to participate in the emergence of new public service laws and the functioning of public media with my colleagues from the electoral media committee. They must be here in the attic. The Chamber of Deputies will have a debate on the real problems of public institutions. This amendment is really bad and, at the same time, its process of preparation itself was rapid. The fact that he was not sufficiently discussed did not go through any public discussions, on the contrary, he arose on the order of the government and its advisors or related interest circles, from my point of view almost to not transparently. I find this particularly unacceptable for an amendment to the law relating to the activities of the public media. Czech Radio and Czech Television are supposed to serve the public and not the power structures that now want to control transparently selected control bodies of both media and to allow their proven prominents to do so. I almost want to call - where is a million moments for democracy? If a similar amendment to the Czech Radio and Czech Television Act had been submitted to the House by the government of Andrej Babiš, it would already be full of Letná or Václavák, where we would have listened to complaints about violations of democracy and threats to freedom of the media. The actions of this government have long been aimed at regulating the media market, in the wrong sense of the word. We see here the apparent desire of the government coalition for the media to publish only what seems appropriate to it and to be subjected to scrutiny, or, more precisely, censorship. And this situation is getting a lot closer to the situation in Poland and Hungary. Five-calice is going to dominate public media thanks to the amendment of the Czech Radio Act and Czech Television. From the position of government agent for media and disinformation, he will then try to distort the entire media market as well. She wants to decide for herself what is or is not misinformation, or what is or is not the right opinion. However, such action is dangerous not only for our democratic system. It smells like state media control, non-freedom and censoring information. And all of this is happening here against the background of the war in Ukraine, when public attention is directed elsewhere and when the government clearly feels the opportunity to creep through such measures that will affect freedom of speech. I cannot agree with the Government's proposal, which, as such, is merely, as I have already said, the Act on the election of the Director General in the spring of 2023. I will vote against his acceptance and for his rejection at first reading, which, by the way, has already been read by my honored colleague Aleš Juchelka. And now that it's clear why we have this Act on the election of the CEO, I might even recommend to the government colleagues that they read and adopt a accompanying resolution, where they might as well tell us who it will be, or at least by the accompanying resolution, they could recommend councillors how to vote or vote publicly to have complete complete control over how that choice will turn out. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not take any chances! Let us not risk the trust of the public service media by adopting these two laws. In conclusion, my colleagues, and I am speaking to you, colleagues from the government, if you claim and wish to refute my claim that the enforcement of this law is not motivated by your efforts to dominate Czech television and to accept this law only because of the choice of CEO, let us postpone its discussion for half a year after the election of the new CEO of Czech Television and thus the launch of a new management. And if that is the case, that is why I am giving a procedural motion to interrupt negotiations on this law by 1 July 2023, when it will be clear who is the new CEO of Czech Television, and we will be able to do so in peace and without great emotions. Thank you for your attention, and I repeat once again, please, I am making a request for a procedural vote on the suspension of negotiations on this law by 1. 7. 2023, i.e. until it becomes clear who will be the new CEO of Czech Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. There is a request for a procedural vote and there is a request for priority, probably with a counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. I will, of course, make the counterproposal. There's been an accusation and a reason why the negotiations for six months should be postponed. This is, of course, an entirely purposeful matter and another attempt to obstruct this negotiation. The reasons that were given here, as I said about an hour ago, are quite odd and colleagues judge others according to themselves. [[15.20 hours]] The reason for this proposal is indeed an increase in the independence of media councils. And the experiments here were in the past. We've never gotten this far. And I understand that the opposition wants to have those media councils changed sometime in the future, and that is why it really does everything it can to that end, and these pointless proposals are falling. But to get to my counterproposal, I don't think it's a big deal for all of us to think about the way we're discussing it, and I'll take the liberty of counterproposal to interrupt the negotiations for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. I'm looking, we've got 65, 66, so it's okay. I'll do it again, but there was a proposal, a counterproposal, and another counterproposal. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u68	I'd just like to point out that if anyone's putting up a counterclaim, then all they have to say is the counterproposal here. Yes? It was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. And there's an application for a check-out, so I'm checking you out at the moment. I'm asking everyone to log in again. And I am voting on President Jakob's counterproposal, and that is a five-minute suspension. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 9, registered 127, for 5, against 46, rejected. So at this point, I am voting on the second proposal, and that is the interruption or postponement, to be exact, of the discussion of this point, and that is to the 1. 7. 2023. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 10, 131 entered, 52 against 78 and the result is: rejected. That way, we can continue our debate. And another of the applicants is the MP... Sorry, there's still a priority right here. Chairman Jakob.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, not a single procedural proposal has taken place, so I'm giving a procedural proposal to limit speaking time to two or ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u71	Sorry, twice ten or twice twenty? [[Ten.]] So there is a procedural proposal - limiting speaking time to two or ten minutes. There's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u72	Yes, I'm filing a counterclaim for twice 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u73	I'm writing. Counterproposal - twice 30 minutes. Another counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u74	That's incredible, just like that! This government coalition isn't even willing to discuss...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u75	Please, it should be a proposal or a counterproposal, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u76	I can give the counterproposal twice an hour, but it's just incredible what this government coalition dares in this House to do in what way...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u77	Mr. Ambassador, but I beg you, there is no other counterproposal? [[It is.]] Excuse me, twice 60? [[Yes.]] Please, if you say so on the microphone, if the counterproposal is twice 60. [[Yes.]] Twice 60. Twice 60 minutes - counterproposal. There's another counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u78	I'm filing a counterclaim for twice 120 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u79	Twice 120 minutes. Ambassador Babka?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u80	Thank you. I'm really shocked by this procedure, because the moment we...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u81	Please counterproposal! Counterproposal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u82	Yes, the counterproposal is twice 240 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u83	Twice 240 minutes. And I'm putting it to a vote. We will be the first to vote against the proposal twice 240 minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 11 registered 132, for 51, against 79. Denied. The next counterproposal was twice 120 minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is vote 12, registered 133, for 52, against 79. Result: rejected. Another was the proposal, respectively. counterproposal twice 60 minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's for twice 60 minutes. Who's against it? Voting number 13, registered 134, for 52, against 80, result: rejected. The next counterproposal was twice 30 minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 14, registered 135, for was 50, against 71, the result is rejected. And at this point, I'm putting the motion to vote twice as many as 10 minutes. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, registered 137, in favour of 83 versus 53, result: adopted. So I'm warning everyone who's logged in that from now on, we're going in twice ten minutes. And I see a priority right here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u84	I really do not understand why the government coalition is doing this, that it is not willing to discuss this amendment to the Czech Television Act at all. I've had an hour and a half of a speech here that only dealt with this law here. I have asked many questions, I have received no answers at all from both the rapporteur and Mr Martin Baxa. And it's really incredible that you guys work like this, you react to it when we want to discuss this matter here. We've got 13 other applicants here. You have no respect for the work of Members at all, you have absolutely no pride in any Rules of Procedure, just simply and simply want to roll it, because the discourse on your part, the fact that you do not say a single opinion about this and do not answer our questions about the law, the small amendment to the Czech Television Act, so it shows that you despise this House here. That you are trying to silence not only the opposition, but especially all the other opinions that are really here about this amendment. Instead of asking the answers to our questions, you're just gonna roll around like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the ANO movement. A member of the Juchel outside the microphone is requesting a recess.]] Please, if you're interested, it's on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u86	In this case, I'm taking a one-hour break at our club meeting and I'm going to ask you to meet me at our place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u87	So I'm declaring this break until 4:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u88	A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, the break has expired, so we will continue to discuss this point. Mr Juchelka shall be declared with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm just going to review what happened here from the point of view of Czech TV and why we took the break. First, of course, the government coalition failed to elect the secret election of five councillors to the 15-member Council of Czech Television. Then this government coalition violated this secret choice to vote for the acclamation to finally succeed, which, of course, is the first thing I would say to this government coalition in terms of the values that we are confessing here. That means even the unwritten democratic rules. Then, of course, so that it doesn't happen again, a small amendment to the Czech Television Act has come up, which we are talking about right now, and which I really think is very, very scandalous. In order not to put an end to this, this amendment to the Czech Television Act has the rapporteur of the Member from the government coalition despite what de facto or de facto you are despite what the electoral committee has designated. That means Mr Kolovratník. And in the end, this government coalition prevented the opposition from talking about it twice ten minutes ago. When we see that we have 14 entries, they're going to have 14 entries, probably twice ten minutes. Maybe another one will come forward. I don't see either of them coming from the government coalition. Minister Baxa doesn't perform here, only in factual remarks. No one has explained to us the questions we have asked from the point of view of this amendment of the law. That's just how a government coalition treats public media, that's how it treats us to have free media. It's very simple. Simply and simply, this government coalition has said that it will undemocratically roll opposition from the point of view of the public media, that it will determine for itself that the opposition or the professional public will not be invited to these important amendments across the political spectrum. It's just, and it's just gonna roll like that, and it's gonna keep an eye on each other's MPs as they vote. So, de facto, if these are the new order, I say I disagree with them, that I am fundamentally opposed to this undemocratically being rolled up by the opposition and to silence our voice like this by de facto not having anybody from the government coalition discussing properly. We didn't have a proper explanation of this law here, Minister Baxa, who spent five minutes here, I think. I think we really deserve those answers. Whether it concerns, for example, the exchange of the rapporteur, which is still owed to us by the President of the House, how is it possible that this has happened here? In fact, why can't we democratically balance within those scales and contradictions that when the government gives a government bill and it's so important to us that despite what the electoral committee says, the rapporteur is voting out of the coalition's camp again. I really don't understand. And all of these clues tell me only one thing: it's about really controlling Czech television through advice, through management, here in this government coalition. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with Mr Babka's point of fact, will be prepared by Minister Baxa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor. I was signed up with a factual remark before the break, and that was because I wanted to comment on the procedural vote that took place here on my proposal, and that was the adjournment of this press hearing on 1 July 2023. I just wanted to tell you, colleagues who may not have been here, why this is not an amendment on Czech Television, but why it is a law on the election of the CEO in the spring of 2023. It's because only the law manipulates the electoral numbers, or the councillors' numbers. That's why three councillors from 15 to 18 are added, and that's why the two thirds are reduced from two thirds to over half the majority. This is why it is only the Act on the election of the CEO of Czech Television in the spring of 2023, not the amendment on Czech Television and Czech Radio. I just wanted so much to comment on the procedural vote that you would, if you moved this bill, I think we're willing to talk about it normally. But only by voting did you prove that this is true, that the law is primarily aimed at choosing the CEO in the spring of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u92	I also thank you, and now, with a point of fact, Minister Baxa, Mr Bělobrádek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm just going to comment on what my colleague Juchelka was presenting here. Mr. Ambassador, through Madam Vice-President, I'm sitting here all the time, and I'm going to sit until night, tomorrow, another night. That's what I'm here for, I'm the drafter of the bill, and I'm ready to answer the questions. But what does a sentence mean, am I ready to answer questions and reactions? If, Mr Juchelka, you're giving a significant part of your speech to comment on the unsubstantiated proposals made by Senator Smoljak, I'm really sorry, but I don't know how to say that. If you dedicate another part of your speech to the consideration of the contribution that the foundation fund has to support journalism, I can't even respond to that. I am not a member of the Organising Committee, I do not know how the rapporteur has changed. I am prepared, or able and ready, to respond to the very specific questions you ask. I am unable to respond to things that have happened here sometime in the past, and that is essential, I am unable to respond, and if you or Mr. Mr. Babka and others want it, simply considering whether the government coalition wants to take over Czech television, poaching it, as Mr. Babka believes it is the law on the election of the CEO, I apologize, but I can't give you any answers to this. The idea that democratic parties to this coalition are writing a law aimed at controlling Czech television. Well, I'm really sorry, but I can't respond to that, and I don't think there's any sophisticated answer to that. I will tell you no, we do not write the law to rule Czech television because we involve the second Chamber of Parliament, which is chosen in a completely different way. Well, unfortunately, we can't agree on that. So, yes, I'm prepared to answer specific questions. I can't answer impressions or things that have happened in the past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u94	Thank you for keeping the time, Minister. She has now reported with the factual remark of Minister Langšádlová, but she is not present. Mr Bělobrádek also reported earlier. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, fellow Members, I just want to say, through you, Madam Vice-President, to Mr Juchelek. As I recall, during the last parliamentary term and on the proposal of the YES movement, the vice-chairman of the club, there were shorter times for performances and limited to two performances during the negotiations. So I don't think it's something particularly disgusting, or like you said, I really don't remember, or undemocratic. So it needs to be realized that when you criticize someone, you have to clean up your own business, because otherwise it's top-notch hypocrisy. [[16.40 hours]] The second point is also about the speech, where there was a lot of talk about customs, parliamentary customs, constitutional customs. Well, I remember well when your boss here said he didn't know what constitutional customs were, and he yelled it into the microphone. It would also be good if you brushed up on your own doorstep and then you didn't piss anybody off. It's always good, I think, to clean up my own house.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u96	Thank you. Before I give Mr Babek the floor on a point of fact, I will read the apologies. Tomáš Helebrant apologizes from 14 to 15.30 hours for work reasons, Věra Kovářová apologizes from 16.30 to 17.30 hours and from 18 to 20 hours for work reasons, králíček Robert apologises from 19 hours for family reasons, Šimek David from 16.30 to 17.30 hours for work reasons and Mrs Válková from 16.30 for health reasons. Now please, with Mr Babka in fact, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. I just have a question for the Minister. Are you applying for action, Mr. Secretary, Baxo? With priority rights. So let's let the actual run out first. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u97	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I thank the Minister for his helpfulness, and I will use his willingness to answer specific questions by asking the specific question that I have asked twice here. At present, the Czech Television Act tells us that out of 15 councillors, two-thirds of them are elected and dismissed by the CEO, i.e. 10 out of 15. When you sent the first version of the bill here, where you assumed you'd choose all 15 new councilmen, you'd even raise this kvorum to 11 of 15. You were knocked down by the Government's Legislative Council, knocked down by the Justice Department, found you couldn't call off all 15 councilmen and chose those you wanted to elect, so this bill came here, in which you increased this number from 15 members of the Czech Television Council to 18. This means that you will choose three new ones and in the next year, because the mandate of the CEO of Czech Television ends in September 2023, so the choice must take place in spring 2023, in order to be successful, so suddenly both the two thirds and the tightening up fall out. And, world, wonder. According to the amendment to the Czech Television Act, which we have here and which I say is an amendment about... or that it is a law on the election of the CEO of Czech Television, so it will be enough to elect only 10 of 18. So that's a specific question: where did the two-thirds go, and why suddenly, why are you suddenly reducing the call for the election and appeal of the CEO? Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with Mr Juchelka in fact. Please, you have the floor. Mr. Lacina will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u99	Thank you very much. So I, first of all, to Mr Bělobrádek, through you. I've never talked about any constitutional customs in my life, I was just talking about the values that these democracies stand on, and those are the unwritten rules, like the fact that we're voting for a secret choice of staff, and you want to look after each other, and I get it, you're just a five-wheeler, everybody votes differently, so you just break this unwritten rule here and you watch each other who votes. That's right. As for those two ten minutes, we used them here when we were dealing with half the number of covideos, so we used this here, including the voices of the opposition at the time, the current government coalition. So this is a very odd argument. And it's never been used to talk about the law normally, Mr. Bělobrádek, through you. Besides, we are at first reading - at first reading - where we should discuss the law. It is not even a third reading, it is not a second reading, where there are amendments, but a first reading, where we are to go after the meaning of the law, whether it has or is not worth it. And to the Minister: I had the last five points very practical in my speech. There were questions about the current amendment to the law. And why did I deal with the history? Therefore, to show how historically the coalition passes that time on how you treat the public media, how you really want to control them through advice and management, how your own people in the Government's Legislative Council are putting it down to you, because it is unconstitutional. And in this whole historical context, when I showed just these amendments how wrong it is, I got to the practical questions. And I hope you'll answer them. I've got them set up, it's three and fours, and I can tell you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Lacina will now speak with a point of fact and Mr Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u101	Thank you. I would also like to respond to the factual remarks that preceded it. You, my fellow Members, had the so-called Bavarian model of election for the Czech Television and Czech Radio Councils in the period from 2014 to 2018. It was signed by Helena Válková. Martin Komárek was signed under it. Why didn't you make it? Why? We could've been through this a long time ago. We didn't have to deal with this now. And I find that answer in the practice of the electoral committee. I was the press correspondent for 30. He was rotting here two years after he was supposed to be approved, after the deadline. We approved after arrival - this year? or sorry, last year, but this year we approved the annual reports of Czech Television, Czech Radio and Radio and Radio Broadcasting Council for the years 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020. It was all lager here. Print 31, right, on the school committee, we approved that one a year after it was to be approved, which we recently passed with Minister Baxa House. It's all lager. Where's your bullshit and we're working? It's all lager. It is true that this ambition was divided by the choice of the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio by Pavel Dostál in the late 1990s. He never succeeded, the House never managed to find a majority that would also conjure most of the Senate. And we're gonna make it this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kaňkovský canceled his application, Mr králíček will now speak with effect. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u103	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members. I don't know if I should laugh or cry. Mr Kádrák Lacina here, through you, Madam President, blames us for having lagermen here, for not approving some reports and press. But who built them in the last parliamentary term? It was your party, Mr Lacina, through the Vice-President. So, as Mr. Bělobrádek said, sweep yourself up, then swear to others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u104	Thank you. Now with another de facto Mr Vomáčka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only allowed to perform with a short insertion. Let's try to avoid such attacks and use words to silence the opposition, cadres and so on. I think we have a lot of people looking at us today, we're having a set-up meeting of various councils, and let's give them a nice, nice example of political culture and not what's going on here for the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now make a point of fact. Mr. králíček will be ready again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u107	Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues. Thank you for the floor. I'm sure I'd like to follow up on my previous speaker, who said here, let's act constructively. I would like to say that the YES movement has come to this Chamber of Deputies today to discuss this bill constructively. Our people are logged in, I think Aleš Juchelka has spoken with constructive output, asked some questions. And I think that political culture you're calling for here, so please challenge your fellow Members from your coalition. We've already asked here three times and asked for the rapporteur to be someone from the opposition. At this point, I would expect you to lift the proposal, approve someone from the opposition within the rapporteur. [[16.50 hours]] I don't understand why he can't be a rapporteur, if it's a government proposal, why are you defending yourself for what reason? Does it bother you that we have another priority right? Because according to the Rules of Procedure, the appellant does not have priority rights, but the rapporteur does. I think you've got it all wrong. And I think that as being this stubborn and saying, we're just really going to push through that force, and this newsletter is going to be ours, I think it's not a good way to go, and I think you should think about your actions and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u108	Thank you, Madame. And now with the de facto Mr králíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u109	Then I will respond to my previous speaker. You're right, and it needs to be eased. But on the other hand, please take a stew of your colleagues' records. You're always insulting us here, and then, when we react, someone comes back from you, so we can calm down and come up with this... Let's get started, too. Well, get down to those stew records, as you call us. Take a look at your Twitter as we are, for example, according to the President of the House, how we stand here. And other things. And then you're calling us here to behave. Okay. But please start with yourself. And I don't know, it just doesn't seem normal to me after the third speaker, because the first was Mr. Okamura, the second was Mr. Juchelka, the third was Mr. Babka, so Mr. Jakob would come and cut the deadline twice ten minutes. It just doesn't seem normal to me. Mr. Okamura could have spoken for six hours, seven hours, then I would have understood, but it was an hour or two. So is Mr. Juchelka. So was Mr. Babka, who was even shorter. And then Mr. Jakob comes in and cuts it off completely hard. So what do you expect from us? That we're gonna sit in the corner somewhere? We won't just be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u110	Thank you. By this we have exhausted the factual remarks and with priority rights is signed by Minister Baxa. Please, Minister, you have the floor. And Mr. Marek Novák will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u111	Thank you for your word. So I will try to respond somehow to the core of the specific comments that have been made here both in the speech by President Okamura and in the speech by President Juchelka and possibly by Mr Babka. I listened carefully to both President Juchelka's speech and President Babka's speech, and I think that the basic problem that we cannot agree on is the principle that your comments are based on. You live in some kind of discourse, or some kind of world where you just consider it the subject of some sort of debate called domination of public media. And we can't actually agree on that in principle. I don't really understand what it means in your concept to control public media. What's the point of your reasoning? Whether the President of the Juchelka Election Committee or Mr Babka here - now I do not respond to the specific factual remarks, the two big speeches that have been made here - or President Okamura, as you imagine that some mechanism will start when we change the law, we will put our people on the board, our people will elect their CEO, and then we will tell him what to do. Gentlemen, if I'm describing your thought march well, I probably am, I'm just asking it as a rhetorical question. And that's a simple answer on my part. We don't think that way. If this is the consideration of the YES movement and the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, then this debate is actually odd. As in your world, which is based on the principle of controlling the public media and then transferring that our coalition, made up of five democratic political parties, after some kind of Polish or Hungarian, but some Central Asian or Chinese model wants to build some kind of state media that will write what we say, so we just can't agree on that. I tell you who don't listen to me, I get it, there's a barrier between us, but I'm telling the public who's watching the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today that we don't want this. On the contrary, we are making this bill that I propose for the government complicated our journey in your consideration, or in your world, the rule of public media, which you are talking about and which you are putting into our heads. For this logic, if you think we want to dominate the public media, come on, Mr Babka, through the Vice-President, President Juchelka, through the Vice-President, Mr Okamura, through the Vice-President, it is as simple as coming here in January, under the current wording of the Czech Television Act, we have called off the entire Czech Television Council, we have named our people and there has been a coup. And instead, we're presenting a law here that makes this whole process very, very difficult as a matter of principle in your logic. We're involved in the Senate media council election. It is a law to endure for some time, maybe years, maybe decades, when the Senate's composition can change completely. Just like other thinking people with a different view of the world. And we are quite consciously making the so-called mastery of media advice difficult in your world. You criticize this proposal because we so-called want to dominate the media councils, but I'm telling you here what would be the easiest way to control the Czech television that we could have done and didn't. We didn't. And if Mr Juchelka or Mr Babka feels that I don't actually answer questions, then some questions or more the comments raised, I simply cannot answer them because we all live in a different world. I live in a world where we consider independent public media to be a key pillar of democracy, and I therefore propose a proposal which complicates the influence of politicians on public media. You live in a world where the basic premise is to dominate public media. How to dictate probably to the CEO or to the board or to whom to do what. So in this regard, gentlemen, I really cannot serve because we will never come to common conclusions because we all live in a different world. And now for some of the specific comments that were made here. Yes, it is true that the involvement of the Senate is a novelty as regards the supervisory bodies of various state institutions. If we think about how we're going to put those obstacles, and not just our government, but all those governments in the future, to take over the public media, this is the way. This means in Parliament's election, involving both chambers. In that matter, if there is actually to be a view of the public and public elected representatives of the role of public media more complicated, yes, the involvement of the Senate is the imaginary stone that we are putting in our way, or the imaginary obstacle, the trench that we are digging up to complicate the situation. There have certainly been discussions between Members and Senators on the ratio in which Members and Senators will vote for their representatives in the media councils. Yes, it is true that some senators had more ambitious ideas. I think the 2:1 ratio is just an adequate ratio, and that's also shown in the design. Then 6:3 on the Council of Czech Radio and 12:6 on the Council of Czech Television. I was asked why we propose an increase in the number of councillors of Czech Television. The answer is that if we are to put, say, the budget and scope of the activities that Czech Radio and Czech Television are doing, then Czech Television is simply an institution that deserves - and I am stressing again - greater public control, through less optional representatives as through the various chambers of Parliament. That is why we have decided to add another obstacle to the outcome. And if we talk about financial costs, yes, it will cost some financial costs. But just democracy in some of its operations is more expensive. Then, colleague, with this logic we can say, we don't have to pay them anything. Or let us reduce the number of Councillors of Czech Radio to three and Councillors of Czech Television to save money on them. But do we want to save money on public media? I'm just asking. Do we want to limit public control by three and six councilmen? Don't pay them anything? Is that possible? Come up with such a suggestion. Let's talk about him if that's how you imagine the greater independence of public media. And I do not bring to the debate the Supreme Administrative Court's verdict on the appeal of the Supervisory Commission, which will probably lead to some entirely random financial costs that might not have been incurred if some things had simply not been done. [[17,00 hours]] Mr Babka asks about developments regarding the various forms of the bill. It is not, Mr. Ambassador, through Madam Vice-President, that someone has thrown down some version of us. The Legislative Council of the Government, not Minister Šalomoun, the Legislative Council of the Government is not an institution that stands above ministers. And the Government Legislative Council says, "This is how it's gonna be," and that's what we're gonna decide. My ministry's lawyers were absolutely convinced that our proposal was constitutionally conformal. Lawyers of the Government's Legislative Council claimed that it showed some characteristics of unconstitutionalness, not that it was an unconstitutional proposal. Use the arguments as they were in the written documents - that it bears some features of unconstitution. We were in the middle of some kind of argument. It is precisely because it is such a sensitive matter, so I have instructed that we do a version where the termination of the terms of office will not be, and we will replace it with a more complex proposal, a more complicated proposal, which we are putting the obstacles to, if I try to penetrate into your world, where you still live in the idea of domination, squirming, says Mr Juchelka, the Act on the election of the Director General, says Mr Babka. It's hard for me to get into your world, but if I approach his principles, we've just made a more difficult way to do it. Mr Babka asks why there is not a two-thirds but only a simple majority. Because we're asking ourselves harder questions again. The councilmen then have much more freer space for what favor and match they're supposed to have on the individual candidates for the CEO. And it won't happen, gentlemen, what you said here in the spring... How did they find out that the election of the CEO would take place in the spring? I'm just being rhetorical. When the Board decides to announce the election of the Director-General in December, it will be declared. And now we're at the first reading of the bill. Again, it will be decided by the councilmen who are currently there. What does this have to do with your world of public media control that we want? No way. You're asking why he's got to make a lot of moose decisions somewhere? It is to be decided by lot because if we want to complicate the situation by involving the Senate, then the individual positions that fall on the Senate must be identified and that fall on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. There's got to be a way to get started. If the logic of the Senate's involvement is reached, it will be done in the case of the Czech Television Council, as the mandates of existing members will expire, so the Senate will gradually take up the number of twelve-six. The Czech Radio Council must be made by a lottery ticket. My lawyers were looking at the past now. It also took place when - by lot - even in such a situation as this, but similar in the time of the so-called television crisis, the places that will be occupied in some way by lot were determined. The election of the Director-General represents a key moment for the development of public media. We are doing all of this to get as far away from the very election as possible, so that the board can make such decisions. In your world of domination, we should have settled it by now. The board... We'll name our people in January, call off the CEO, and that's it. And we're putting on more and more obstacles. But I understand that this is very difficult for you to accept. I'm sure we could find a series of partial questions. I'm ready to answer them. I consider it fair because the bill is important. Whether my colleague or Zdeněk would like to. Returning to the holding of the Organising Committee, no doubt it is possible. If you want to comment on any suggestions from the last term, I can get ready for them somehow, say something. But I'm prepared to answer all your questions about this bill. And what about things to come? A group has already been set up with representatives - I stress - of coalition government political parties to a big amendment to the Czech Television Act. It's coalition because the government is responsible for the proposal. It's not like he's carrying it across the board, I don't want to say it pejoratively, anyone, but they're just MPs, nonprofits, experts and so on. The primary responsibility for the so-called big amendment to the media laws will be mine, because I, if the government approves the proposal, will carry the proposal, and I will be the subject of your criticism unless you agree to something. This coalition group is therefore established. She will be invited by experts. They will address three key issues, which means financing Czech Television, the involvement of the Supreme Audit Office, which means increasing supervision of Czech Television and Czech Radio in terms of control, and some changes. Of course, there will be some issues that concern technological changes. Those laws are relatively, I don't want to say old, but the tech run is just very strong. Of course, I'm ready when the outlines of the novels are being born to talk to you about it. Whether you want it or not, I don't know. I'm just saying, I'm ready for this, because these changes are just made every once in a while. And I rarely... I don't think that, as Mr Lacina said, none of those things happened in the last term. So this is about perspective, and the fact that I have the ambition to prepare the big amendment during the following period so that the House can discuss it. There's a lot of demand. And we will have to answer some very difficult questions in a way that... what financing of Czech television through licence fees at all. I don't know which one of you, I'm very sorry, I don't want to put it in someone's mouth, here he actually made the same speech about the independence of the public media, the subject that it's a great idea to free seniors from paying licence fees. This only leads to the fact that Czech TV could simply close in its current form. That's all it is. Except that whoever said it, and I'm sorry, I don't know who it was, so I don't want to point a finger or address at anybody, so it's a practical guide, presented, if I'm not mistaken, members of the ANO movement, I'm not sure that the SPD Members signed it, so it's like a specific instruction to free seniors from paying licence fees, how to effectively cancel at least Czech TV and Czech Radio in its current form, just as I say, no one has given reasons, because then the funds that will be available to Czech television will fall, perhaps by half, maybe more, and maybe less, and actually would cease to exist in its present form. But, I would like to point out, cross-cuttingly across Europe, it is as if there are fundamental discussions about what public media should look like. France is currently approaching the abolition of licence fees, the temporary financing of the French public media from the state budget and the search for a new route. I don't think we're supposed to be doing this right now. I'm certainly not suggesting that the concession fee principle be abolished. But we're not going to have a simple debate about it. I very much appreciate, although Mr Juchelka now constantly accuses me of wanting, as he says, to swamp public media, to control television and so on, to deduct this part of politically, so I appreciate the fact that he organised a seminar on the definition of concessionaire, or the payer of licence fees, which is one of the real ways to change the financing of Czech Television and Czech Radio. But it will mean no to the fact that someone gets away from paying licence fees in quotation marks, it would mean some extension of the number of those who would pay, and that, of course, doesn't just happen easily. But that is no longer the subject of this amendment, this bill. I considered it necessary to speak, to deal with some part - I stress the part - of the comments that you want, and I am ready to continue the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u112	Thank you, Minister. This is Mr Juchelka with priority rights, but first of all, we have the factual remarks made by Mr Kolovratník, then Mrs Peštová and Mr Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u113	Thank you for the floor. I'm waiting patiently, I'm somewhere in that row under... behind the ending list. [[It points to a blackboard where many entries are lit.]] . But now I will respond quickly to the Minister in the factual one. Minister, first of all, it is not so easy to call off the board as a whole, and I hope that it was just a theoretical mention of those possibilities. You know very well that not approving the report twice, you'd have to make a hell of a lot of arguments here in the House, subject the decision to a critical view of us opposition, the public. But I take that with exaggeration and no offense, I take that as a theoretical option. And when I listen to you, maybe it's winged: we talk to each other, but we don't listen to each other or understand each other. You just said the things that actually came for me, they came great for me: I want to talk to you, if you listen, you opposition, I'll respond, I'll deal with you, suggest different ways, the tripods... And maybe I can take it self-critically, too. I have been President of the Election Commission since 2013, these various ways of tripods, doppelgangers, combinations, representatives of the Ombudsman, whom we have today made a pledge to serve, proposals from the Senate and from the President here to the House, in other cases the SAO, proposals from the House towards the President, the Office for the Management of Political Parties, proposals from the House, the Senate and so on. [[17.10 hours]] But that's what we say here, Minister and Mr Lacina all the time. Come talk to us about it, let's talk about it together. Let's get these things together cool, steady. But what's going on here today? I mean, we're on the table here from you, and that's why we're here all the time, and we're probably gonna be here all night, because we've got this weird, weird, kind of stuck-up novel that you're saying, on the one hand, it's actually like it's not important that it's actually small. But then you won't let anyone from the opposition or the intelligence. With your strength, you'll limit us to ten minutes. It's all weird! So let's stop this today, please. Let's end this meeting. We're ready to sit in that group together. [[Time!]] We're ready to work with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u114	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with Mrs Peštová's factual remark, then Mr Brázdil, and the Minister is reporting with de facto or with priority? Really? With priority, okay, thank you. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u115	Thank you for your word. Minister, I cannot agree with you because the interest is there. If it wasn't for that interest, you wouldn't have rushed it. So you wouldn't actually make an emergency meeting for this law, even though I remember you guys were scolding and saying that an extraordinary meeting would really be like salt, that's hardly ever gonna happen. And look at this, we sit here all the time. It's always an emergency meeting. But what's this special meeting for? Mostly about what you're interested in. Let it be a service law, now it's actually this law. When we called an emergency meeting and wanted to solve people's problems, you didn't even approve our program! And I certainly wouldn't say that the Government Legislative Council is some sort of advisory body. That's not true. I'm on the legislative... It is true that it is an advisory body of the government, but I went to the Legislative Council of the Government and presented the laws, the decrees, the regulations. And I can tell you that it's an organ where x lawyers sit, let it be corporate, constitutional, through administrative law, and they're really well-founded lawyers, and it's not easy going through them. It's not easy. And I can say that then, when you go to those committees where you have to defend those laws and regulations, that's where they are. So it's really not just like it's some advisory body. They're really well-founded lawyers. It's true, what a lawyer, the opinion. They were able to argue with each other, but really, when they said no, we withdrew the law and had to remake it. And yet it didn't work because we knew we'd end up in the Constitutional Court anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u116	Thank you, Madame. Now with Mr Brázdil in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u117	Minister, I'm glad you're sitting here, not in that row, that you've taken the position of the rapporteur's desk. And I'm glad to ask you a question directly. Better said, it's a reaction, it's a reaction to you, to your performance. And the question is very simple. Now, listen to me, especially you guys at home. In case someone here gives an amendment to increase the licence fees, you personally or the Ministry will be in favour or will you oppose it? In this difficult situation, when people really don't have money and they don't have a simple question, please. And if you answer me, I'll be glad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now with priority rights, Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u120	Minister, I'm sorry, I forgot about Mr Juchelka, who applied before you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u121	I'm sorry, too. I'm kind of a low profile, more like submissive today. [[- That's right.]] That's right. At this point, of course, I would also like to respond to Minister Baxa, so that he can, of course, respond to me. Of course, our worlds are actually passing by because my world, and I've lived it for about 15 years on that Czech TV, is definitely a little different. That's why I'm talking about values, the principles, the unwritten rules, which also make up the big package that we call democracy. Even on unwritten values, that's what it's worth. And that's why I understand that our two worlds have to pass because you're not talking about it, you're just doing what you're doing here right now, so you're just doing it. If you know what I mean. You don't talk about it like much, you don't think about it. You guys just put it that way. That's why you're taking the individual steps that I'm saying are really diametrically different with my world. Let it be on the Organizing Committee a change of rapporteur, which I do not really understand. That's a violation of the unwritten rules and our values. Let it be the choice of the acclamation staff you've made, that's a fact, and that's also outside my value system. Don't let it be approved twice without any arguments about the activities of Czech Television. I'm sure it's because of the bonus to the CEO. It's also my world that I don't understand in value, and it's yours. Only after we meet here today is at an emergency meeting of the House to push this law through. And that's not my value world either. It's not that I'd like to push something hard, and there's something else that's bothering people outside these walls. And today we found out, because there's one message all over the place today, and that one-third of the water for households is going to get expensive. And we'll probably have to deal with it some way in the future, too. So our two value worlds are actually passing by. Yours is the practical, controlling, powerful one who wants the media to be more dependent on the public power. Mine isn't like that, and I'm doing everything I can to keep this world from being here. Because really - and I said here four clear, concrete cases: newsletter, acclamation, activity reports, an extraordinary House meeting - is actually quite different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u122	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Minister Baxa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u123	Let me just point out that I am speaking as a member of the government that, as we keep watching how our government helps citizens in comparison with the Member States of the European Union, we are definitely at the top. Mr Juchelka, through Madam Vice-President, let us say that our government not only hears the needs of citizens but vice versa. As far as individual forms of assistance are concerned, whether it is defined through approved proposals for the volume of funds, so on the fact that we are middle-sized countries, we are definitely on the highest levels of assistance within the European Union. So it's just whether we don't listen or listen to citizens. As a member of the government now, not as Minister of Culture, but as a member of the government of Petr Fiala, I say that our assistance to citizens is definitely in the worst part of helping people compared to European countries, with the countries of the European Union. And I would only respond to Mrs Berenika Peštová's factual remark, which actually seems to have said a few important things at once. I don't want to reduce the role of the Government's Legislative Council for a second, there are great lawyers, but I also respect my colleagues at the Ministry, where I have a team on media legislation, or the Ministry has a team of very experienced and knowledgeable people. And I have never accepted the argument put forward by the Legislative Council of the Government, because I simply believe in what our lawyers say on these issues of expertise, and I think they were right. That the proposal we put forward in the original version was not an unconstitutional proposal. And yet, and absolutely, Madam Vice-President, I agree with you, we have simply retreated, because the Legislative Council of the Government is a respected organisation, or sorry not an organisation, is a weighted component of the state, and therefore we did not want to enter at the very beginning of such important legislation with the imaginary brand that we are presenting an unconstitutional amendment. Which, no doubt, would happen here in the House's loft that we would get a sticker like that. The novel, you said whether it was important or not. I don't think there's any point in comparing this media novel with what it's said here in these arguments that we don't hear the voices of people who need help outside the walls of this House. There have been a number of extraordinary meetings, others will be on Friday, if I am not mistaken, where in this extraordinary accelerated regime there will be very specific proposals to help people in our country who are under pressure from Putinův's aggression against Ukraine, the global energy crisis and others. [[17.20 hours]] But in the context of media law, I think this is an important law. As was the important law on video platforms, which had been here for two years before, and the ministers Staněk and Zaorálek did nothing with it, just as the copyright law laid here in recent years. I am simply used to responding to what is happening around me, to proceed, I would say, effectively, efficiently and quickly, and that is why I have just pushed this media law, the copyright law, the platform law into the House, and I simply consider this reform of the choice of media council members to be important. And the fact that sometimes it's as if a small one is given is simply because it solves one particular part, and the so-called big amendment, which requires definitely more detailed discussion, because it also means a number of new concrete solutions, will come later. This bill is really simple, meaning in a legislative sense. About Dr. Brázdil's question. I am clearly saying, if anyone makes a motion to increase the licence fees, I will not support it. I've been saying this for months. Even though these are small amounts, I don't think there is room for licence fees to rise at this time. But likewise, and I would like to point out, I clearly held in the Government that we cannot support the proposal, and now I do not know whether the YES movement or the YES and the SPD movement, to forgive the concessionary fees for seniors. Because if this law were hypothetically approved, it is the end of Czech Television in its current form. Because it's gonna be such a huge revenue blackout. You are not suggesting, in this proposal, any compensation for this matter, it would be a one-time cut of funds for Czech television and the end of Czech television in its current form. And we just have to say - and radio, of course - that the form of Czech television, what we're talking about here, actually includes a huge spectrum of activities, artistic genres, broadcast forms that TV provides, from news to fictional production to the co-production role of Czech television and so on, and the moment your law is adopted, this is all gone. So if we are talking about some form of one who wants to help both Czech Television and the law to prevent seniors from paying licence fees, the execution of Czech Television is in its current form. And it's just, I probably don't want to repeat it over and over again, but Juchelka, and of course I really appreciate what he was doing on Czech TV, and I was a consumer of his activities on Czech TV many years ago, I really mean it nicely. So, Mr Juchelka, through Madam Vice-President, do not hide behind working for many years, no doubt well, on Czech television. You are here today defending the ANO movement, representing the political views of the ANO movement, headed by Andrej Babiš, and not jumping from role to role. You are simply a supporter of the YES movement and you are now taking the view that you are giving us completely absurd consideration of attempts to dominate Czech television, which is simply a product of mentality presented here by the ANO MP club. We're just making our way harder. You talk about it, or you live in a world of what someone wants to control, after all, your chairman has shown it repeatedly in the past. And this is not my world. Don't compare yourself, Mr Juchelka, with the Czech Television. You are now the Member and Chairman of the Election Committee for the YES movement. So make it clear what your movement is asking for, and I'm going to comment here. And that's how I think it has to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u124	Thank you, Minister. Mr Adamec will now make a point of fact. Mrs Peštová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u125	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I will not be here to respond to those comments on the amendment to the Czech Television Act. It's not my field, although I don't think that Czech TV and its director can control themselves anyway, no matter who tries to do it, and I hope it doesn't, because the media must be independent. And if it doesn't, then this world just ends. And that we don't like some of the shows, well, that's just the way it is, but that's part of it. But I wanted to talk about nothing else. This is where the water-swollen, water-swollen price fell. I would ask not to say such things here, because the price of an aqueous, coiled state does not determine it, it is very different in different areas where there are different companies. That's where the price is well-organized, it's not entirely funny to do that. Let's not scare people. I remember when we used different half-truths here, and maybe not purposefully, like it wasn't intended, like that Slovakia had a crown of fifty per kilowatt hour. Please, let's not do this, because we're making unnecessary public noises through the media world we're in, whether we want to or not. Let's not do this. It's not like that. Seriously, like I had to react, don't be mad at me. It just isn't, and let's not use it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another factual one comes from Mrs Peštová and Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u127	I will respond to the Minister. Minister, we understand each other. We understand each other very well. She's a little novel just so you can push it at this rate. If it was a big novel, believe me, you wouldn't push it. That's what I'm saying first. Because as soon as the concession fee and all that, I think the discussion here would be a lot more passionate. But that's why it's the little novel. But I, when I said, and I said it was your interest, it was quite obvious. You're trying to push it into some time, and it's a very short time, because you know very well that it's going to be a reelection, or, rather, the choice of the new CEO. And until then, the amendment must come into effect. So that's why the pressure here is what it is, and that's why it's the little amendment you're pushing here, and that's why all you're trying to do is control the advice and have the number of people who can vote the way they're supposed to vote. It's quite simple, that's when you look at it, so you don't have to think about it much. I really don't. But it's your concern. That's what I said. These are laws that you're interested in, like the Service Act, to have an unlimited number of political representatives, and it's going to cost an incredible rocket of money, so this is another law that you're interested in. We, as my colleague Aleš Juchelka rightly said, have the interests a little different. And not these.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u128	Thank you. Now with Mr Juchelka in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u129	Thank you very much. I will, of course, speak to the Minister, who always talks about the two different worlds. They're really different for the two of us. Mine is valuable, yours is powerful, influential. And that's proof of what I said here on those four points. If that's not enough for you and if you're not able to think a little bit about it, then I understand that you're going to force all the novels here without any discussion, and you're going to try to take power over anything that's going to happen in some way in this state. We're gonna have a National Sports Agency. Now they're writing down servers about you planning a coup at the National Sports Agency. At the moment you have Czech Television and Czech Radio. That's just the way it is. Those are the facts, and the facts aren't in any fancy words that almost nobody trusts you anymore, about democracy of principle and values, you just don't talk. That's how it is. Our two worlds are different. And yours is just small, ground floor, influential, powerful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u130	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Lochman, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Kolovratník. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Evening, my dear colleagues. I would like, through the President, to respond to Mr Juchelka and to add, to support the opinion of Mr Adamec. Please, really don't scare me here. You're going to say that a third is going to increase the price of water. Mr Juchelka, through Madam President, you know that this is not true. Each water company decides on those prices itself. They are financial models and according to financial models the individual joint-stock company or other type of organisation decides. And it's gonna be different in every organization. Even if you don't know about it, it's allowed and will be allowed, except for the Ministry of Finance, to not completely reflect inflation, so the water doesn't have to cost as much as it had to, for example, according to some financial models last year. The fact that you're saying that one-third of the water is going to go up is just a lie. It's haunting, please don't use it. Really, every company makes its own decisions. [[17.30 hours]] And then the addition to the power stuff you said here. Come on, a coup at the National Sports Agency. I beg you, there's a man who's been answering directly to the Prime Minister. So you set it up. No control, just the choice, one to one. If you want to control public finances, you need a board of directors or some supervisory authority. That wasn't there. So this isn't about a coup, it's about setting it up more transparently. And as far as today's debate is concerned. Well, I understand that maybe you're upset that some media can't be bought. Well, they don't. Because they're public media. And the proposal is aimed at dividing the councillors' choice between the House and the Senate, thus highlighting the possibility of independence of Czech Television and Czech Radio in the long term and protecting this media from the influence of politicians. And I think it's really good, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u132	Thank you. Now, Mr Kolovratník, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr králíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u133	That, my friends, is really two worlds today. I'm sorry that Ondřej Lochman left now because I wanted to respond to the water, although I apologize to the Minister, it has nothing to do with the TV. But neither Ivan Adamec nor Ondřej are here. [[Attention from the diaper.]] He's here. Excellent. Mr. Lochman, well, the water's gonna cost up to a third, it's not a lie. And the lie is if you, as a coalition, say it's not gonna happen. I am a representative of both regional and urban in Pardubice, so I am a member of the self-government, which owns water and sewerage - by the way for President Adamec, I am glad that he has arrived now, we are together in Eastern Bohemia for interconnection, I know how complicated pricing is, I know how difficult it is. So please look at the media. I'll read it to you quickly, quote. It can, it can rise, Mr President, by up to 30% - we say that this will happen - but it can go up by up to 30%. And the opposition doesn't say it, so says Mr. Vilém Žák, Director of the Association of Water and Sewerage, SOVAK. SOVAK experts say it'll be up to 30 percent. We all know that the spread in the Republic is enormous, from CZK 90 to CZK 138 to Frýdlant. The whole report is about it -- it might be to your credit -- that originally it could also have been up to 50 percent, by half. Thanks to the fact that there has been a reduction in energy and so on, what will then happen, a pillow, and a waterworks operator, it will reduce the energy-intensive operations. Not by half, but by 30%. But it's just reality coming, that's what it is. We use it as an argument to pursue this, not television. But please don't respond to us for lying. It's not true, gentlemen, it's just going to happen and it's going to be up to 30 percent of the current prices. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u134	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr králíček, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u135	Well, I also have to stand up for my colleague Aleš Juchelka, because I find it quite smiling how the coalition wants to turn the subject around here, where my colleague Juchelka merely pierced that we believe that there are more important topics for discussion than to discuss the amendment to the Czech Television Act at this extraordinary meeting right now. And the second thing is buying the media. Well, we, Mr Lochman, through Madam President, have noticed that you do not want to buy the Czech TV. You're just trying to control her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. And now he's getting a line with a de facto remark from Minister Baxa. [[Members gesture.]] Not Minister Baxa. He's downloading his login. And now, with Mr Adamec in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u137	Again, I don't want to control anything personally, and I wouldn't want my colleague králíček to put it in my mouth, through yours. As for my colleague Kolovratník - that's amazing what I'm hearing here. Here he presents the opinion of the private company SOVAK, or whatever he said. This is one of the many companies that operates here in the water market, water supply, water treatment. And the fact that they say that, that's just the opinion of this one company. But I said again that reality is completely different. If you'd listened to what I said, it wouldn't have to be this post and my reaction. I'm just saying, we just don't want to take anything anywhere. When the argument comes down, it's my duty to say that it's just not true that it's not gonna be like this. And it may be that somewhere the price of water will rise, but I think they're going to make exceptions especially for water, it's going to be the government if I've registered well. But if you count the costs, so if the state has put a price on those companies too, then 30 per cent will not fit into the cost in itself, and the maximum is about 20 per cent if it ever does, and it usually doesn't, because the companies are still owned differently, and if the municipality says they don't want to, then they're going to look for reserves and that price isn't going to go up like that. Let's face it. I don't want to argue about this, we're dealing with something else. I merely pointed out that we should not use arguments that are not entirely in line with reality. Everything on my side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u138	Thank you. We have drawn up all the factual points and finally it is Mr Marek Novák's turn, who is duly entered in the debate. Please. Let me just remind you that we have limited the time for a two-ten-minute speech, and the Member is registered twice, so he will be performing for a total of twenty minutes, if the time runs out. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u139	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. It ended up here today with water on the mill. In the case of these Souls, we are getting more souls, the Czech Television Council. I find it really interesting that we are gathered here today, even at an emergency meeting, to approve, at the internal command of the five-wheeler, an amendment to the law, which in my eyes will forever be crooked and even more volatile in the position of public media in the Czech Republic. The task today, as I see it, is: let us choose a formula for the election to the media councils of Czech Radio and Czech Television, which will immediately prevent the possibility, according to the current system, to nominate the opposition of the personality to both of these institutions. The smooth choice of the CEO of Czech Television and absolute control over the activities of the television board are the main objective. The same awaits the Czech Radio Council in pale blue. From the five-wheeler's point of view, of course, from my point of view, don't be mad at me, colleagues, I can't call it anything other than the word atrocity. Dear citizens, if you believe that previous massages and the slashing of opposition parties from trying to influence the operation of public media must be stopped in this way and that government parties are actually doing a good thing, then you are grossly mistaken. I'll tell you what fears and opportunities a five-blinder sees. One. There's a Senate that can't nominate anyone today, although it's kind of a coincidence, and the law doesn't impose it on him, yet he set up a media committee to at least talk about it. He's sorry, he'd like to nominate and award. Today, the five-calice has a majority in this body, which is why it simply wants to give it to him. And I quite understand that, you're colleagues. Moreover, with an argument that is as old as the dual system itself: we must vote for truly independent personalities. I'm sure you've convinced us that you're voting for independent personalities and that you're voting independently the last time you voted on power here by acclamation to watch each other and choose the really independent ones in your eyes. Two. Then there's the Chamber of Deputies. It's just not a good time for that coalition blind guy to run a nomination system right now because he needs to get control of both media. And I'll remind you again of the last choice. And since the current nomination system just doesn't fit your needs, you're just gonna change the law and the election system to these institutions. Three. There's a government here. Let us remember how the cabinet of the professor, who has actually just returned from the trip, is unable to say anything clearly, unambiguously, without the need to change, edit and correct the content of the communication. Well, that needs to be changed, doesn't it? The right board has to work, the right director who puts in the right management, and he's gonna build the right reporting teams. [[17.40 hours]] And fourthly, there's the current management, especially the management of Czech television. She took the liberty of asking about the management. You're not, are you? She took the liberty of asking where the dealers' money goes, where the citizens' money goes, who, by law, have to pay these fees, no matter what the financial situation. And let's remember that just today we have an article about a lady who's in insolvency, yet execution, and from 3 600 crowns of licence fees, she's at 12,000 today and doesn't know how to deal with it, because of course she lives out of benefits. Fifth, there's one crucial opportunity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you who have ever run a business or have been in its top management will surely realize that. There are two media factories. These media factories have guaranteed income - one 2.1 billion, the other about 7 billion crowns. And you can do a decent theater with that, can't you? These are budgets that could move forward with the current desperate media image of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, the new division of the media into private media has been working here for 30 years. During that time, private subjects, whether radio or television, have fully fulfilled their potential and role. Now they're pushing the boundaries of media activity further. On the other hand, the public service media did not take this chance. Why? Let's start with the definition of what a public medium is. The word "public law" came down a few times today. Maybe we could find a definition on Wikipedia, maybe on some other servers, but do we actually agree on that and find the right definition of "public law"? We don't agree, like any House for the last 30 years, on a solid definition. And if you look at history, you'll find I'm right. We don't agree. We really don't know the definition. It is only up to us, i.e. political responsibility, to what extent we believe in the democratic principles of this country, to entrust the contributions of citizens, dealers, to the hands of people who will do adequate information work for it. Not activism, but real information work. Every time government-party politicians began to run into their shoes, suddenly there was a need to work with public media. Just like now. And it was mainly in the days of ODS and CSSD. Who among you will remember that even ten years ago, these two parties - ODS and ČSSD with the support of the KSČM - were splitting up smugglers for their former comrades, and just through the democratic election into councils? Shall I tell you the names of former MPs or loyal officials who were councillors of both media for these parties? They didn't make it to the House, they had to be placed somewhere. Then why not the board? Later, TOP 09 joined them. Everyone, please, where do you get so much nerve to preach to us today about what is and is not right? History shows I'm right. The world didn't start in 2021. After all, it was you, the politicians of the ODS TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL coalition, who allowed your sheep to run on the basis of nominations of body and embellishment associations, chess associations about two members and other smiling subjects to capture and defend your truths in both councils. Look at the former council cast and try to disprove my words. So what do you want to change now? Isn't it time to just start following the law and stop doing stupid things instead of editing the law so that you can do even more stupid things again? Ladies and gentlemen, in America, and here we are, fortunately, in the Czech Republic, but in America, they say that when your rules stop being met, change them. This is precisely the moment we are direct participants today. You don't like the rules, you want to change them. The law once passed by the ODS is changing today because the ODS doesn't care how it fails to fulfill it. Do you realise that today we have been able to work in our committees or parliamentary offices with citizens and solve real problems that not only we but mainly citizens face today and daily? No, we really need to be present at the humiliating bending of media laws so that they will be five-calice verniques in this parliamentary term. During the existence of media laws in the Czech Republic, it has always been true: any change in favour of the moment of the ruling guarantee has turned against these parties in the next parliamentary term. And believe it, if you push this into force, it will turn against you. Simply put, you're cutting a branch below you, not below us. Ladies and gentlemen, once more and for the last time, what's going on here. First, erase the current opposition from the media councils. Secondly, choose the right director of Czech Television. Third, to accommodate the whining Senate so that they may also choose someone in these councils. Fourth, gain control of the finances of both public media. Fifthly, and the word has already been here, there was a word to swamp, I will use the word to sew my comrades' nods into warm places and control them through advice. In fact, I would like to hear the opinion of the original creators of both laws currently in force. And I think they'd be very surprised. However, you could have heard the opinion of the more experienced and beautifully during the meetings of the electoral committee. Back then, we were clinging to the BBC system or German models. And where are we today? In Kocourkov! I don't like that word, I don't use it for the first time, but here's the place. By changing the system of nominations and elections by both chambers, the work of media public councils will certainly not improve or improve. That's where the so-called right people will sit until the next election. And actually one more thing: there'll be more. Dear colleagues, once again, and in fact, you're getting used to it, when you're told that over and over again, you're pushing for the strength of something that's predetermined in the long run to extinction. You're just making a quick solution on the basis of some demands, regardless of the fact that whoever comes after you has to work the hell out of it to restore order and meaning to the legal system. [[17.50 hours]] When I follow the system of your coalition's work, I recall an example from Afghanistan. There, when the Taliban took over the pilgrimage, he was enthusiastic about the autodrome and the carousels for a while. They were so happy about it, they shot around each other, and then when they got tired of it, they blew it all up. That's exactly what you're doing. This is exactly how you treat the Czech Republic. If you have a little responsibility, I ask you to withdraw this bill yourself and learn from the experience of the surrounding older democracies. Please start - I am telling you this for the eighth time - finally working for the Czech Republic by its citizens. Madam Vice-President, I hereby submit a motion for a re-evaluation of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So I'm recording your motion to return the motion for completion. Yes? [[Member Novak: For revision.]] Okay. Now, with a point of fact... The minister checked out? [[Yes.]] Okay. So before I give the floor to Mr Vondráček, who is next on two applications, he will be performing for a maximum of 20 minutes... [[I'll be as fast as I can.]] Sorry, hold on a second. I'll read the apology. Mr Bašta apologizes at 18 o'clock for reasons of work. I didn't notice your comment, Mr. Ambassador. [[I told you I'd be as fast as I could.]] Excellent. Good news, hopefully. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u141	The remaining honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister, Madam Vice-President, at the outset of my speech I have written in large letters: to propose to return the petitioner to work, so I thank my colleague Novák for speaking earlier and saying it for me. All I can do is join it. And believe it or not, I really considered not to perform, or that I would perform very shortly after I thought very professional, very clear here, and I liked how he said it, my colleague Juchelka gave a speech. So I just wanted to say that I'm not going to extend it in any way anymore, but your proposal to limit speaking time, of course, has some other effects, and so I'm going to come out on principle. I wanted to limit myself basically to what my colleague Juchelka said, that it is simply a quick hot needle stitched and especially at the moment not so much needed amendment to the Czech Television Act, whose benefit really lies in the fact that the election of the CEO is being adjusted, and we can overlap and cover it up as we want, it is a step towards power control, the power influence on the events on Czech television. And it has also been heard here several times from the mouth of my previous speakers. It is basically a kind of polarization of public media in the Czech Republic. When it came to Poland, the current government coalition, when it came to Justice and Justice in Poland, jumped 100% on the Brussels rhetoric about the threat to the rule of law and democracy in Poland, and now in the Czech Republic we are basically going the same way. I would just like to point out that my friends in Poland told me that law and justice in Poland really overreacted a little bit, and that the Polish TV and their two are basically out of line. Well, I hope we never get to this stage. What I don't understand is why we're meeting at an emergency meeting. Why are we meeting on this subject at an emergency meeting? It's been said here, too. Yesterday, the main headline in all the media that electricity has made Europe most expensive in the Czech Republic. And let us really no longer look for anything but the laxity and inactionability of this government, and that we are truly unique within Europe. Today, information about the fact that our citizens must prepare to dig deeper into their wallets, because water will cost up to 30%. It's a discussion about Czech TV. I don't want to go into any details, but it's logical that those sewage treatment plants and those pumping stations have a huge consumption of electricity, that we have high VAT in this area, so let's not be surprised that our citizens might compare again, or if we compare it to purchasing power, we'll be back to being one of the worst in Europe. And now an extraordinary meeting on the amendment to the Czech Television Act. And by the way, at this meeting, the Minister of Culture will tell us that we cannot save money on public services in the media. That's what he said. But where are we supposed to save money? Where is he supposed to be saving up in this republic? Who's supposed to save money? Who buys sweaters? Are they supposed to be our citizens? You're showing us quite clearly now, because there really is a well-paid hot spot once again, times three. And as part of the justification of the bill presented, the precise calculation of what it will cost us is rather lacking. And you know what the worst and alarming thing is? It's not a random phenomenon. That's part of the trend. And we deal with it at almost every meeting. It started with the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. We have the most in the history of the Chamber of Deputies. And I'm not gonna comment here yet that it's 5:1 at the moment. Five governments, one vice-president of the opposition. If the parliamentary clubs in this House were really established in order and in accordance with the law, then we have succeeded in limiting ourselves. In the end, we've never solved the subject and we haven't worked it out. Then you put your political deputys everywhere at the maximum possible number, two, because you had to meet the demand of five different parties, including those ministers. And in the end, to make matters worse, you will change the law completely and the number of political representatives will be completely unlimited. Today you are promoting, starting to promote, three other Councillors of Czech Television, and if I am not mistaken, we will meet here on Friday at the first point and this will be the amendment of the Act on Sport and will be promoted by the paid board within the National Sports Agency. Who's supposed to pay for all this? Where are the structural budget changes? Where's the savings? Where's the loss of officials? At the Office of the Government, the officials are increasing, not declining. The deficit is bigger than it was on the covid, while the revenues are only 111 billion higher because of inflation. Then I could go on. Please, back to Czech TV. I am responding to what has been said here in the debate, because I come in at basically six o'clock and we have been discussing since 9:00 a.m. First, maybe a short time to sweep your own doorstep. I'm telling you now, I'm really sorry about what we did in that last parliamentary term. We shouldn't have done this. It was a mistake that we gave way to this electoral coalition at the end of the parliamentary term and we let it be that, contrary to the law, we did not fulfill the Council of Czech Television then and thanks to obstructions of the current government coalition, obstructive speech and above all, you remember how much we had, who is a memorial here, I think it was only 38 hours for the breaks of clubs in the discussion of the fulfilment of the Czech Television Council. Thirty-eight! I was one of those guys who already suggested that a vote be made on whether the club could take a break or not. I was convinced by my colleagues not to do this, that it was undemocratic. As for the ten-minute limitation, I'm not as rigid as my colleagues, because it's in the Rules of Procedure. It's just in the Rules of Procedure and it can be done. But when did this happen in the last two seasons? It was done by the Service Act, where we spent the whole summer here, the whole holiday and when Miroslav Kalousek declared publicly to the media that it would never pass, that he would speak every third reading, every Wednesday and Friday that he would speak and speak. So we introduced two or ten minutes back then. The second time was EET. These were always the laws that directed and were supposed to bring something to the citizen, they were supposed to have some profound impact on the lives of the citizens. Do you really feel that this is such an essential subject that we in some way restrict the debate that we are used to in the Chamber of Deputies? I think the effect will have the opposite effect at the end. koneckonců all, it has now been criticised here that reports on the activities of Czech Television have not been adopted and that the new law is to fix it. Excuse me, but who is the one who has done the most of the reconnaissance here, and who has not received the report on the activities of Czech Television? This was Mr Jan Jakob, a newcomer, who was here obsessing about receiving news from Czech Television. As a government coalition, we were all prepared to retaliate and to approve. That's ridiculous when you look into the past, what we already have with the Czech TV during the discussions. [[18.00 hours]] I just wanted to ask why you're doing this Czech TV thing. Why are you actually reducing her credit by changing the rules of the game in this undignified way in order to somehow gain influence on who will be elected director? We all live in some kind of social bubble. As much as I'm resisting and trying to talk to everyone, I'm trying to go to talk shows, like the media that aren't really close to me, so I'm just trying to talk, but I have my bubble. That bubble on Facebook, for example, when I announce that I'm going to ask questions to Václav Moravec, they're all gonna say, "Good luck, but we're not gonna watch." We're just not gonna watch Czech TV. And all you're gonna do here with this gradual cutting off of that freedom and independence is you're gonna get no one to really look at it anymore, and it's gonna end up like the one in Poland you've been talking about so many times. One last thing. We always wanted to focus on the things that are really important in the discussion about Czech Television, and that is the financing of Czech Television. In fact, in this little novel, brief, as Marek Benda said, there's basically nothing about funding. This discussion is huge. Because the law is old, and today, really, a new generation doesn't watch that TV anymore, or it doesn't have that TV device, they watch the media on cell phones, they watch it online on computers, and it's not even counted on. This should be the subject of this discussion. At the moment when it is considered that the budget is actually not enough that Czech TV will have to save, so the first report that will appear from Czech TV will be cancelled about the third programme, which is intended mainly for seniors. And be careful, the seniors are basically the only ones who pay the fees fair and fair, the way they should, because they're so learned, they don't question it. But it's all true, and not everyone is voting for this coalition. You will only achieve that there is really a bubble that watches Czech TV, which we all pay for. Legitimate debate is to talk about whether the TV fee is, or isn't, an advantage, if the financing of Czech television should change in any way, and not about how many members it will have, if it doesn't basically make sense. It smells like a hundred hunts why it's done, and you can cover it up all you want. Minister of Culture, I appreciate you fighting here. You can see why you're a minister, but you can't argue with that. You can say you can use the word democracy five times in every other sentence. Public media funding is addressed both at national level and at transnational level throughout Europe. The European political consensus on this issue is reflected in several documents. It is already under the so-called 1997 Amsterdam Protocol. It is Protocol 29 on the system of public broadcasting of Member States to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is provided that Union States have the power to finance public service broadcasting where such funding is granted to public service broadcasting organisations, as entrusted, defined and organised in each Member State, where such funding does not affect trading conditions and competition in the Union to an extent contrary to the common interest, taking into account the performance of the public service. I have taken advantage of the fact that the Parliamentary Institute has repeatedly devoted itself to this matter. I've got, like, three different labs, different comparisons. And the fee isn't really the only way to go. When I look, for example, the fee paid directly to citizens like us is in Croatia, Ireland, Germany, Poland, Austria, Slovakia, Slovenia. No, Slovakia isn't anymore. Slovakia already has it as part of the budget. The state budget is financed by Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Hungary, Malta, the Netherlands, Romania. Otherwise, it's from 2014. So I'm sorry I haven't updated it. Along with energy, with electricity, there is a fee in Italy, Portugal and Greece. They have a public service broadcasting tax in France. They don't have it in Finland and Sweden. Then they have hybrid access in Denmark. I have here a specific breakdown of the individual states, how it's financed. This should be a debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and not that we are extending the number of councilmen to 18 to make it work in the spring. I'll meet you here in April, Mr. Secretary, and we can tell you who was right when you say that we're definitely not, that we're definitely making this up. I would simply hate for Czech television to become a medium only for certain groups of the population, a novice of any government, within the social bubble. At this point, I'm really very concerned about what's going on. Since we have a government agent here to fight misinformation, we have already had problems with censorship that the newsletters or servers that allegedly spread disinformation have been shut down. The current Minister of Interior stated in Questions by Václav Moravec on TV cameras that Members who share articles on Parliamentary Leaves are disinformers. That is a very strong statement, because there are often just conversations with some citizens. I personally had a debate with the students last week. And I asked them if they were in favour of restricting freedom of speech in any way when it was in a good way, when it was against vulgarity, when it was against clear misinformation of third powers, or there was justice and equality. And you know what those students are like? There, a student applied to me and said, "Please, and what's the difference between disinformation and opinion?" It stopped me because when a student tells me this and it has a head and a heel, it has a bigger head and a heel than the debate we're having here in the Chamber of Deputies. We have some recurring, at least promising, government information campaigns. The last one cost CZK 24 million. Twenty-four million crowns cost us that government politicians themselves are unable to explain what they are doing in that government. For $24 million, they ordered a campaign to advertise that people should report for benefits. I don't have any feedback on the subject until now, and by the way, if more people have applied for those benefits, they've come to the employment office, and the campaign has been successful, and I'm just saying, I don't think so. A new KRIT unit comes to the Ministry of Interior, a crisis information team that wants to monitor opinions and moods between officials, between state employees and, in the event of their radicalization, conduct a dialogue with them. I told you last time, it's like Švejk, I'm not gonna repeat myself. I just wouldn't like to live to see what you want to do with the Czech Television, so-called ČÚTI will be re-established. For those of you who don't remember, it was the Czech Press and Information Office. He would finally have his real office with a real budget, he could make working groups at all departments that would buy the loyalty of the population. We could call that office office 33 because it's been 33 years since the Velvet Revolution. When I was standing on those squares, I really didn't think in 30 years that I'd be here as a person who would point out with a raised finger that the free media in this country are threatened by censorship, by restricting freedom, and now, at this point, by a government that just can't handle it, so of course, they're trying to silence their opponents, because it's easier than it is to argue. Then take our word for it. Well, maybe now it's avoided... the time limit for two or ten minutes. That's what I think - I've been through a lot - that it wasn't the dramatic debate we had here, and everyone who's talked so far has been talking. [[18.10 hours]] So I'm telling you in advance that if there's no motion for rejection or a motion for a return to work, we're going to want to get this discussion back on our feet and talk again about what to do with the fees. And I'm sure you know that there are a few suggestions on this table, for example, that the seniors would be forgiven for the fees at this difficult time. And this is A, and then we have to tell B what's going to happen to the Czech TV. I certainly don't think this would be a step in the right direction. I certainly don't think that's why we should meet here at an emergency meeting. Thank you to everyone who came to the microphone and at least said something. At first, it seemed like you'd all be out of line. The President refused to speak to the rapporteur, so at least the Minister is sitting here, and I disagree with him at all, so at least he said something about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u142	Thank you. With a factual remark, the Minister of Culture is canceling the factual remark. And I'm not gonna take his prior jurisdiction into account, either? Not either. In that case, we will proceed in order as you are logged in. Next, Mr. Jiří Kobza will appear. I've got his two applications here, so two or ten minutes straight. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I suppose I won't even use those 20 minutes, but I was wondering just to make sure I didn't miss that minute. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, last of the Mohicans, good evening. Let me say a few words about this through a bad and anti-democratic proposal by the government and Minister of Culture Baxa of the ODS to change the way the members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are elected. Given that both of these media have become outright propaganda channels, the issue of election of board members is becoming very important, and I think that the debate that we are leading to it here is very well founded and I would say that it is necessary. The Minister said of his proposal that amendments to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act strengthen the independence of public media. The involvement of the Senate in the elections of media councils strengthens the resilience of public media to external political pressures. End of quote. I think it's, uh, cunningly speaking, untrue to nonsense. How can the already very dubious independence of public media strengthen their further brutal policies? After all, the media is no longer objective, independent, or apolitical. They inform according to clear directives, only inform about carefully selected events. Some of them we learn absolutely nothing about, others pushing into us through the mountains down some heartbreaking scenes, which we then learn about, how many times they come from a completely different territory. But we certainly can't regard them as independence. How could this independence be strengthened by the fact that a significant part of their members will currently vote for a politically unicolored Senate, which, while having virtually no public confidence, and where even a tenth of eligible voters do not vote for winning Senate candidates in their constituency? So what resistance is the minister talking about? Possibly resistance to objectivity and balance of public service broadcasting. That's very likely, and that's probably what we're seeing today with our own eyes. According to the government proposal, the number of members of the Czech Television Council is expected to increase from the current 15 to 18, or three additional paid seats. And these are places that are paid out of citizens' money, taxpayers' money. At a time of unprecedented government debt growth, in any way, I do not consider it the most appropriate way to expand public administration just because of the way it is presented to the public, which has to make a lot of effort to meet black numbers at the end of the month, they do not remain in debt. And the situation seems to be even more challenging. We certainly cannot consider this decision to be responsible when it takes place in a time of social and economic crisis, at a time of enormous and missile expensiveness, when a large proportion of citizens, according to current surveys, are no longer basically coming out of their monthly incomes and are already drawing on their reserves if they are no longer exhausted. This government, which falsely declared itself to be a government of budgetary responsibility, establishes new smugglers for its nominees and clients. So I'd like to ask the Minister how much this increase in the number of seats will cost citizens, and where do you come from when, in all cases, it's about helping people cope with the effects of expensiveness, energy growth, and so on, you're yelling that there's no money in the budget? Six of these 18 members of the Czech Television Council are scheduled to vote for the Senate next time. Thus, a full third, although the vote in the Senate elections, especially in their second round, is barely a sixth compared to the House elections. Moreover, they are elected by the same people who also vote in the single and relevant elections, namely the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, and it is in these elections that the distribution of views and preferences in society is shown in a fully telling way. It is logical, therefore, that the media public councils are elected by the Chamber of Deputies and only by the Parliament of Deputies. It makes no sense for the Senate and the Senate voters to grant other unauthorized privileges and, moreover, to seek further artificial competences for the Senate so that its supporters can defend the existence of the Senate even in the future. The Czech Radio Council will continue to have nine members in the future, but 3 of them will again be selected by the senators, so that radio broadcasts will also be under the independent political control of the five-wheelers, the only right liberal democrats. And there is another totally anti-democratic and possibly unconstitutional issue. The government proposes that candidates for both councils, television and radio, should be allowed to design for the future only organisations, institutions and associations that have existed for at least ten years. According to the explanatory report, it's supposed to disable purpose-based associations. I have a feeling they're making fun of us. Do you consider this a purposeful association such as an organization that, without a crown of public subsidies, helps socially weak, elderly or physically disabled people and so on, and do they exist and work hard for, say, seven, eight or nine years? Tell it to those people in the eyes that it is some purposeful organization so that after nine years of work they can design or not propose a candidate for the ČT or Czech Radio Council. There is absolutely no factual argument. In order to control the public media in this way for the next six years, you are willing to do literally anything. You can see that you literally depend on them for life. It is the political and opinional unilateralness and imbalance of the news and publicism of the public media that keeps you in the saddle, and the main thing that has also brought you to power. It's not the citizens' trust, and you know it. That is why you want to use such, I would say, a cunning, undemocratic and even unconstitutional selection regarding the conditions for those proposing candidates to these media councils. [[18.20 hours]] If the government bill passes, it will no longer be possible to withdraw the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council as a whole, as it has been so far. The House and, of course, the newly asked Senate will only be able to vote on the possible appeals of the individual councillors, only those chosen by the Chamber. This means that only the Senate and the candidates elected by the House can be called off again by the House alone. So it's basically like a Senate position where only the Senate can cancel the Senate, so only the Senate will be able to call off its people from the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio. Amazing. Perhaps we will soon see that you propose to divide the media councils themselves into their lower and upper chambers. Furthermore, the petitioners do not assume that this amendment, if passed, would become effective only after the next elections to the House, or at least after the first Senate elections after the amendment has taken effect. No. Five-caliber wants everything now. Right now. I have two little children, it's the same in pale blue, they want everything now. So the newly emerging new positions in the Czech Television Council, which will occupy the Senate, as well as the other three seats that will be released in the Czech Television Council first to usurp a third of the board as soon as possible. At the Czech Radio Council, the places that will come to the Chamber of Deputies and which Senate are to be determined by lot again. By the way, that's not such a bad idea for a Senate choice. Why don't we draw for the senators? It would save a lot of money for an election. This would certainly go much cheaper than the current situation, we would save the needed tens of millions of crowns and the legitimacy of the winning senators in the first and second draw of the draw would not be much lower than now, at least with regard to the mandate they have. And it would certainly be a fairer way to establish a Senate than it is today. Its winning composition would reflect much more really the distribution of political sentiments in the public than it does now, when the second round of Senate elections is mostly attended by larger groups of candidates and possibly their party colleagues. But let's get back to the point. It is evident that the five-wheelers are trying, as long as they hold the reins of power, to control the next years of broadcasting public media at the cost of trampling down all the conceivable democratic principles. He wants to place politically obedient councillors and then through them choose the obedient director of Czech Television and Czech Radio. We can assume, as has already been said, that this will again be a public acclamation option, which, when it comes to personnel issues, is one of the characteristics of totalitarian regimes. After all, as well as political control of the main and most influential media. So this is the true nature and nature of our so-called liberal democracies that we have in the government. In order to maintain political pluralism and free competition of ideas and political forces, we must not allow totalitarian thinking to be put into practice. It is a fact that only the media that will be apolitical, independent, objective, and will follow not the instructions that the European Union and its leadership have on what they can, about what they cannot, and in what direction they may inform, the media that respect that we have the right to information, only those media have their application in a democratic society. But the moment we have quite extensive censorship here, when the media feeds us the information we may have, and those we must not have consistently kept from us, then, of course, we cannot talk about some freedom and democracy at all. And that situation in our society will reflect the same situation that we had in the 1980s, which I remember when the media barrier, censorship and media manipulation of public opinion was actually at a very high level. Like the fear of accidentally getting access to information that may be undesirable. So after shutting down unwanted news channels on satellites, I'm assuming that there's gonna be a cancellation of Internet channels, that there's gonna be blocking some channels -- I've seen it in Iran, total blockade, so the precedents are here, the technologies are here, it's not worth so much -- and we're gonna be looking for secret information that's gonna come from objective channels in some way. And the advice, both the Council of the Czech Radio and the Czech Television, will play an important role in how we will actually be able to receive the information, or we will not be able to receive it. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think this matter is very serious, and I think we should not rush it. The idea that was here to get back to it after the presidential election you overruled had a rational basis. I think it would be fair to both citizens and to us as Members to actually bring these discussions to an end, we have considered all the circumstances, all the consequences that this proposal for this government amendment will have, and we have come to some solution that will be fair, fair and will serve the whole country. Above all, in order to be able to achieve objective, impartial and political information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u144	Well, thank you. I'll read the apology. Mr Volný apologizes from 20 hours for reasons of work. The next performer will be Mrs Štefanová. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u145	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, which will be amended by the following changes in the public media: an increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council from 15 to 18 members, the election and dismissal of members of the Czech Television Council by both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, while the House elects 12 members, the Senate elects 6 members. The members of the Council are responsible for the Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, which elected them. Candidates may be proposed by legal persons who have been in existence for at least 10 years at the time of the proposal, representing cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological and national interests. Members elected by the House and the Senate should be represented in the Governing Board. If the President is elected from members elected by the House, the Vice-President shall be elected from members elected by the Senate, and vice-versa. The amendment proposes by law to dismiss a statement that the Chamber of Deputies may withdraw the Council if the Board repeatedly fails to fulfil its obligations laid down by law or if the Chamber of Deputies does not approve twice in a row the annual report on the activities of Czech Television or the annual report on the management of Czech Television. The terms of ten votes of the members of the Board shall be deleted from the provisions on appointment or withdrawal of the Director-General of Czech Television. The Czech Radio Council will have nine new members. The Chamber of Deputies shall elect and dismiss six members and three members of the Senate. The Chamber of Deputies and the Senate shall elect members of the Board from the candidates proposed by legal persons who have been in existence for at least ten years at the time of the proposal. The amendment also proposes by law to dismiss the statement that the Chamber of Deputies may withdraw the Council if the Board fails repeatedly to fulfil its obligations laid down by law or if the Chamber of Deputies does not approve twice in a row the annual report on the activities of the Czech Radio or the annual report on the management of the Czech Radio. The terms of six votes of the members of the Board shall be deleted from the terms of appointment or withdrawal of the Director-General of the Czech Radio. All these changes... This proposed amendment to the law will only lead to more control of this media. It's kind of adding some other legitimate Senate activity. [[18.30 hours]] In the Government's programming statement, we are: we will focus on the sustainability of public media funding, which is a fundamental condition of their independence. But this amendment seems like a step in the exact opposite direction. The SPD movement has long criticized the level of management and bias of public media broadcasting. We take the view that licence fees should be abolished. Czech Television and Czech Radio should be transformed into state contribution organizations whose management should be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office. Unfortunately, in the present amendment to the law, the management of public media is not at all addressed. This year, Czech TV manages a budget of more than 7 billion crowns, which is a significant amount, and its management is not subject to any control at all. The increase in the number of members of the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio will only lead to an increase in the costs of these councils. At this time, we should focus on solving many problems other than discussing this bad amendment, in addition, at an emergency meeting. Therefore, as has already been said, the SPD supports the motion to dismiss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u146	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Balaštíková, who is twice registered in a row, i.e. twice ten minutes. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u147	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. According to law, the Czech Television Council should be an authority to control activities on behalf of the public. For many years, however, this paragraph is interpreted as the board's main purpose is to control the management. However, I believe that it should, above all, control what the public expects from Czech Television, namely the content of the broadcast. But Dramaturgy is the last thing the board controls or even affects. What will be filmed, what will be broadcast and why, who will be paid for creation, it remains in the hands of management, which is virtually uncontrollable. Most in sight is the news that makes a lot of mistakes and for which no one is responsible. There are no consequences and mistakes are repeated over and over again. But many public questioners also hover over the shows, over dramatic and documentary creation, musical programmes, creation for children and young people, and especially the concept of sports broadcasts. On this very issue, I would like to mention the following. The government coalition prepared a comprehensive amendment to the laws on Czech Television and Czech Radio, but eventually preferred the path of several smaller amendments, the first of which is to change the way of choosing several media councils. Is it good that legislation will change gradually and not at the same time? It would be good if the government coalition had first published its intentions, obtained support for them at least in the expert public and preferably in the form of an expert conference, where it would have heard controversy and worked out objections before they proved wrong in the House when reading in committee. The force pushed through the House isn't the best way to find out the idea wasn't the best one. In the opinion of many experts who have been involved in media legislation for many years, the way media advice is chosen is the very last thing that needs to be changed. What's to start with? First of all, by forcing law enforcement where people criticize it most, by respecting the impartiality and objectivity of the news, even in such difficult situations as are now happening in connection with the war. One source of information is one source, even if it is told by the spokesperson of Ukraine under appeal. And war makes it impossible for us to report objective reports if we're not alone on the battlefield, but we're riding something on a tank. There is a constant need to refer to primary sources and do not issue readings for information. Intelligence is and must be unsigned. It must not be clear on which side the editor and announcer stand, even if he stands on the edge of the mass grave. Adjectives and adjectives evaluating anything and anyone, including democratic or totalitarian words, are unacceptable. The classification should be forgotten by the editor, especially by labels on hybrid threats, Putinův trolls or misinformations where it is not information, but a different interpretation of reality and opinion. To say categorically what is and is not true today, only those who stand on that battlefield, which is not one of the journalists. Questions must be asked openly, not confrontational. The editor conveys the guest's opinion, no one cares about his or one lady's opinion, or anyone who said anything. In addition, impartiality and balance must be respected. So you're asking what to believe? There are five questions attributed to an ancient rhetoric teacher in Rome, Hermagor of the Darkness, who has intelligence as gathering information to answer: who, what, when, where, and why. Each question should have a factual answer, stating only the facts that need to be stated in order for the report to be considered complete. What is important is that none of these questions can be answered simply by yes or simple no. Later, Aristoteles, who describes the task of reporting in his work, Nikomachovsky's ethics, also took over these model questions. Perhaps we can view his work as the beginning of the news in quotation marks. Everything else besides the answers to these five questions is someone's comment, someone's opinion, someone's opinion, and some kind of conjecture. When we realize the century in which these great ones lived, what their works contain, and how much today's news, especially on Czech television, has deviated from the original intention, which was undoubtedly the only and correct intention, giving as accurate information as possible, how something happened, who or what caused it. It's definitely not supposed to be concealment, and it's not supposed to be tampering with information. Please take care of the concept and do not push They will establish their particular interests by the salami method. This bill does not address anything important, it is separated from the reality of what is really important in the case of Czech Television. Whether Pepík or Pavel will be elected to the council and will deliver information to one or the other political parties, it doesn't matter at all. Legislation should create the prerequisites for a modern public service, which will be visibly and clearly, i.e. truly, developing our cultural identity, reflecting the diversity of opinions, contributing to legal awareness and, above all, providing objective, verified, balanced, versatile information on the basis of which citizens could freely shape their views. Try to remember a few shows that at least satisfy some of it. There will be a few, but at the same time, we will realize how many journalistic and artistic rubbish come upon us every day from the public screen. We put 7 billion on this account, and then the Council of Czech Television is crazy about whether the CEO doesn't take a taxi too often instead of these representatives asking the public why they produce and broadcast nonsensical films, why they copy commercial stations and why they copy them badly enough, why our new Czech creators don't get into Czech Television, why we don't see the original Czech new formats and what measures are derived from the errors in news and publicity. If you do not understand that our citizens want this, they may need it more, and especially this is the purpose of the Czech Television, you will continue to expose the criticism of everyone involved, because Czech Television is a television funded from taxpayers' money. They must serve all of us who pay licence fees. They must serve with proper care, fulfill the wishes and needs of citizens and do so responsibly with all journalistic ethics. Czech television is not yours and must not serve politicians but citizens. And if your main reason for these changes were not merely to serve politicians, mainly from the government's five-wheel drive, we certainly would not have to perform this sad theater on the House floor today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u148	Thank you, Madame. You're logged in immediately afterwards, so it's failing, okay? Okay. Then I shall ask Mr Kolovratník to take the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u149	Good evening. Thank you very much, Mr President, for a little bit of patience, and I am going to go ahead and use my first part of the limit on the performance that has been assigned to me by you, colleagues from the coalition. At the beginning of my performance I will respond or look, I will return, and perhaps with a bit of irony, to what I have noticed and what I disliked during this autumn. The debate today is all about Czech TV, about public television, about its independence and so on, and so on. And I'm thinking with a little irony, and I'm asking you, colleagues, if that's what you really need, when that Czech TV for you, for the coalition, is already doing quite enough. And I'm going to illustrate this in one example, which is really very fresh, and here on the background of today's debate from my point of view, it's still open and unfinished. It is a programme of questions by Václav Moravec, namely questions by Václav Moravec from 18 September this year. Less than two weeks till the election, the communal and senate elections. I wanted to thank Aleš Juchelek here for clearly describing the subject and making it clear that I am a person who originally comes from the media. And it's true, I've been on the radio for over 12 years, and it's no secret in the business, it's a fact that people like Václav Moravec are historically familiar with each other, and we even know each other, so historically our relationship has been normal, personal, but always correct. And what did this fellow do here, what did he do on September 18th, my friends, 14 days before the election? Well, he invited our honored colleague to his core publicist profile show Czech Television, and he just happened to be here, Minister Martin Kupka of ODS, and now - Minister, don't be alarmed, it won't be against you at all, you're not to blame - and now to the guest lineup: Czech Television in its own rules, in my own material, which I know from the media, was used 20 years ago when I worked there, so in Part III, Part 4, paragraph (g) Czech Television defines in its own pre-election rules. Václav Moravec's questions are the crucial political-publicist profile programme of Czech Television conceived as a debate on serious current political, economic and social issues - and now beware - on which the responsible person of the executive power is usually expressed, or legislative, and - I stress - its opposition or shadow counterpart according to relevance. So in the case of Martin Kupka's participation, perfectly fine, the person responsible for the executive and legislative power, the subject, I believe, was about the energy crisis and the current problems. And friends, opposition or shadow counterpart Martin Kupek was Dana Drábová for STAN, Luděk Niedermayer for TOP 09 and, say, an independent representative of the Association of Industry and Transport Radek Špicar. In this way, the opposition was represented in one of the many publicist programmes. I am not saying this because in this debate I want to talk and focus on the balance or imbalance of news and the publicity of Czech television. This is a topic that will be heard here and will be heard often, but maybe it belongs more to the electoral committee, or perhaps also to the Czech Television Council, which I will certainly turn to on this matter, and I will beg and ask for an explanation. I asked Mr Moravec personally, I asked the representatives of the Czech Television management, no one has yet given me an answer. But why am I telling this story? I want to illustrate the reasons for this story so that you can understand why debates about Czech TV are such emotions, why unfortunately, the errors and activism of people from the news and the publicity of Czech TV are damaging the Czech TV itself and why politicians are causing such disavities and such sensitivity and perhaps sometimes hypersensitivity in our country. The Czech Television also brings the radio with it. [[unintelligible]] Why the dislike is here and why it harms our view of the public media? Totally unnecessary in many cases. This is pointless because the debate about both Czech Television and Czech Radio is not supposed to be and cannot narrow it down to the errors of news activists and in publicity. Here I will remind you - and now I will speak as the one who worked there for the last 12 years - they are the media that, for example, the television that is involved in our culture. Czech TV is the biggest film producer. It needs money for creation, for the original, own creation of Czech television, for ever building, growing our cultural background, the podhoubí. Czech Radio is doing very good similar work, the same work, whether on all over stations, or also in regions where I work from the region and where we are already at the time, and to this day it takes, supporting young artists, musicians, the young work. Both media care about the cultural heritage of our republic. They're digitizing the archives. Try to imagine how much money it costs just digital copies, cleaning any of the historical black and white films. These costs are in units of millions for every movie And now I'm going back to the merit of my performance and the actual remarks I made today. I repeat again and patiently, colleagues from the coalition, we need to debate what those public media are doing, what they are supposed to do, what we want them to do. What is the public service that we are paying ourselves, which all citizens are paying to this day? Why do you think a large number, and I don't want to throw those or other numbers here, is it simply dissatisfied with the service, the public service of the public media? What should it look like for the satisfaction to be majority and maximum? These are the questions we're supposed to ask ourselves. If I look at the files, but I think I can do it from the top of my head, and I look at the amount of licence fees, maybe the TV last valorized, that's what it said in the previous debates here today, sometime around 2005. [[unintelligible]] Radio, my friends, hasn't changed since maybe 1997. And if I illustrate my own personal experience in those days of the public media manager, when we started the Czech Radio Pardubice, the regional station, in 2001, it was after the emergence of new regions, then the average salary of the news editor in the region was moving when those people were getting in, somewhere between 18, 19 and maybe 20 thousand. Today, the average wage is definitely going to be twice that. I'm sure it's going to be 38, maybe 40,000. [[median?]] The fee of the concessionaire, the source of the money, the 45 crowns in the case of the radio, has not changed since then. And yet this is also a subject that we should be dealing with. Do we want to raise the fee or not? For what reason? Do we want the SAO to have more control over the public media? Well, I guess we do. I remember the debates here from last term, and for various reasons, we didn't finish the debate. And we repeat all of this over and over again patiently over and over again. I mean, these are the topics that he deserves, the debate we're supposed to be dealing with. But in short, colleagues, with all due respect, bring in a quick MP amendment for some reason dedicated only to the Senate or only to the change in the way of the councillors' election, that is completely nonsense. I'm asking you again, I'm calling again, and this is primarily for Minister Baxa. Let's say what you want to change. So do you want to change the way the councilmen are elected or nominated? My other experience as President of the Election Commission. There's a lot of these combinations. I'll remind the Supreme Audit Office. Suggestions that the Chamber of Deputies may send to the President of the SAO or his representative. Opposite Ombudsman, Ombudsman and his representative. The President and the Senate are sending these proposals to the House for approval. The Grand Media Council, once again elects the House, we send for signature or appointment to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, who, in theory, does not have to accept the nomination. There was already a VZP in the debate today. Taxatively by law given numbers, as the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board is occupied by the Government and the Chamber of Deputies after a change in the term of office. I mean, the democratic insurance, the tripods, the four-leggeds, whatever we call them, is a huge amount. But it doesn't make any sense to me - first of all - in terms of what you're proposing. And secondly, this doesn't make sense to me to do it without question, without an agreement with the opposition, more or less randomly. [[18.50 hours]] I'm looking at the time. The last inspiration or the last good example I'd like to set you as a mirror. When we amended the Line Act in 2018 in transport, the possibility of greater expropriation for the state, I went to the presidents of all the MPs, including the opposition at the time, we all sat on the Economic Committee, we all agreed and went to a press conference together. And I think that is correct work across the Chamber of Deputies, not what you are presenting to us today! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u150	Thank you. The next one will appear in the order as Members and Members are enrolled, Mr Lacina. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u151	Thank you for the floor. I did not know until the last moment to enter this debate or give sufficient space to colleagues who are interested in the topic and will certainly want to talk to it much more. I would like to take a little look at the basic framework and a little bit into history, recall that the public service media, which is inexactly called public media, was created before the Second World War in Great Britain and played its key importance only after World War II in denatured Germany, where, of course, the need arose for the media that led Germany into World War II and the whole of Europe with it to be as far away from that government power as possible. And so then the concept of public service media and those radio and television stations came into being, and eventually we have the ZDF and the ARD to this day, and they work in parallel with commercial media in the so-called dual system, which has clearly proven itself in Germany. This model, the dual transmitter model, was taken over by the Czech Republic after 1990. Today, somebody was talking about him wondering what the authors of the Czech Television and Czech Radio laws would say about it. Well, I happen to know the key representatives of that trial quite well, and I think they're keeping our fingers crossed in this particular duel that we're going through here today. The point is that public service media, if they are strong and if they are independent, are a key stabilizing factor in parliamentary democracy. That's why it's so important to us. Even then, in the 1990s, there was a need to separate public service media in the Czech Republic, as far away as possible from the current government power. And I know that Pavel Dostál, who has had a very strong position in the government of Miloš Zeman since 1998. And just because the concepts mentioned here by Mr. Kolovratník were so many, it was always so easy to say: and we still have this possibility or this possibility and this possibility, just to break the ambition to bring this thing to a successful end. It was not dragged by Pavel Dostál, it was not dragged by other political garnitures. I would perhaps, through Mr President, ask Mr Kolovratník why colleagues from YES did not do such a thing in the last eight years, when they were very strong in the House? Why didn't they look at TV fees that have been at the same rate for years since 2005 and 2007, those of Czech Radio and Czech Television? It seems to me that you haven't really addressed the subject until today, when you have embarked on the subject so fundamentally. Well, here's the paradox. We are in a position today that the government wants to weaken its influence on Czech Television and the Czech Radio and the opposition are preventing it. I've been thinking about what's behind this all morning, and maybe I'll just keep thinking about it, and it looks like there'll be enough room for tonight. But I have to say, then I'm following another paradox here - the meaning of words is completely reversed here. Someone here is tunneling the meaning of words and tells us that we are calling the Polish or Hungarian road to that public television in Poland or Hungary. However, the proposal, which decimated Polish television and made it essentially commercial television, is signed here under a very similar proposal as a parliamentary initiative by the Chairman of the ANO movement. And then here we have the Hungarian road, which Hungary took after one of the failed elections, which turned out very strangely, under Prime Minister Orbán's authoritarian direction. And who took that look in Prime Minister Orbán's Hungarian? Who brought him here before the parliamentary elections in 2021? Once again, the chairman of the ANO movement, who here today explains how we want to carry Czech TV, Czech Radio and Czech media system through the Polish or Hungarian way. Well, that's a really weird paradox. That's what I'm, I gotta say, I'm losing. There is one nice word for it that I will repeat to a colleague... a colleague... a chairman of the electoral committee, more often... Juchelk - I'm still getting the jelly fish, I'm sorry - Juchelek, of course, and that's the word for flattery. You will hear it from me, colleague, more often now, because that is a word that describes very well what is happening here. I would like to say one more thing, precisely because I have some ties to the founders of the modern Czech parliamentary democracy after 1990, and I often have the opportunity to talk to some of them about it. And they say: we have built those strong institutions of the state and the task of your generation is to fill them with good people. And it's true that because the institutions are strong, we didn't go the Polish way, let alone the Hungarian way. Do you know which institutions they are? Firstly, it is a two-chamber parliamentary system and a Senate that has prevented several times in the history of this country from taking the Hungarian path, because in Hungary there is only a one-chamber parliamentary system and one election that will end extremely means that you will find yourself on a slide outside parliamentary democracy. [[when]] This system of strong institutions, of course, includes the Constitutional Court, which intervened several times in the Czech electoral system. This includes the Supreme Administrative Court, which recently stated that one of the important decisions of the Czech Television Council was illegal, and we will certainly return to this on Parliament very soon, so I promise you with absolute certainty, and it includes, of course, strong institutions, public services media, Czech Radio and Czech Television. We seek their independence. It is called very popular, that the carp are surprisingly ready to launch a pond and someone is stopping them. And I'm asking - why? And maybe I'll get an answer from you this evening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u152	Thank you. Your speech raised Mr Kolovratník's factual comment. Before Mr. kolovratník comes to the microphone, I'll read an apology. Mrs Mádlová Ivana has been apologizing since 19.30 for health reasons. Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u153	Now I will really react in the way this is meant to be, and perhaps I will surprise Mr Lacina with honesty. Yes, I take the criticism to a certain extent. When I listened to you, I remembered from our point of view the first term, the period 2013 to 2017. Okay, we came to the House, the subject was already on the table, we remember, and even if you weren't in the House, you were in the business. Even then, debates about the amount of licence fees were resonated by the public space, about the television fund, which is gradually being exhausted, and so on. But frankly, when I think about that period, it just wasn't a priority. There was a coalition government of YES, KDU-ČSL, social democracy, we took care of it, I remember it very well, primarily a number of laws with the reconstruction of the state, we changed the legislative process, in the business that I do, we did, for example, line law, railway laws and others. The second period came, the minority government, and again - perhaps it was a priority already greater, but there was some political lineup, I remind you of the unfortunate period sometime since spring, the end of spring through summer 2021 before the elections, when - again, my colleague, I cannot blame you, but I blame the demo block for it, or what it was called. The councillor's election was almost blocked here for six months, which means the subject was extremely explosive, extremely sensitive. And there was a covid. It's not an excuse, it's just that there was the reality of the House's actions in halfway around, pairing up, shortening that time, not because of some power of the coalition against the opposition, but because of some efficiency of the negotiations. And this just wasn't a priority because it was so sensitive that it was so explosive. I'm just gonna self-critically admit that that's how the two seasons went. But if you want to change it, and I repeat it again, please come calmly with us. There's nothing burning right now. That's all I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u154	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr Brož is applied for, Mr Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u155	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say, I think, quite briefly and factually, as my colleague has quite rightly pointed out, to the law on the election of the director of Czech Television. I'd like to start by summing up a few things. I know the basic information's been dropped a few times, but I'm gonna put one thing in there that I don't think has fallen yet. The point is that the main objective of the bill is to enable the members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council to vote for both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, not just the Chamber of Deputies. Here, as many colleagues have done before, I ask why? Why didn't the proposal come out, even if the parties to the ruling coalition were in opposition earlier, why is it coming now, what has actually changed? And I've heard some partial answers to this, but the answers are just not relevant. The second amendment followed by the bill concerns subjects who, according to the Czech Television Act and according to the Czech Radio Act, propose candidates for members of these councils. The current legislation provides that proposals for candidates for members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council may be submitted by organisations and associations representing cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological and national interests. The draft law here strengthens the representative element of such entities, or at least seemingly, and sets out a time condition for their existence for ten years, which confirms their anchoring in representation of the particular interest of society. Here's another question: why is it ten years ago? Why isn't it five years, why isn't it 15 years or why it hasn't been 12 years? Another of the important things is that the three functions of members of the Czech Television Council - and the important thing here is to say that it is strange, but with the Czech Radio Council it does not change much, and that the important things concern the Czech Television Council, so they are already arising on the date of the Act's entry into force - is to elect members of the Senate within three months, within three months of the effective date of the Act. The Czech Television Council is supposed to have 12 members, 12 elected by the House, 6 elected by the Senate, or to vote by the Senate. [[18?]] The Czech Radio Council remains in the existing composition of 9 members, i.e. even in odd numbers. What are some fundamental reservations or comments about this proposal? For one thing, the inclusion of another constitutional actor, the Senate, in the election process of members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council has theoretically the potential to better ensure pluralism of represented views and greater independence from the current political situation, as has been presented to us by many advocates of this proposal. The question, however, is whether the current applicant is not motivated, in particular, by the efforts to ensure a greater number of his political nominees in the situation in which Parliament's Upper House is occupied in quotation marks by traditional political parties represented in the government coalition. Of course, there are some things that suggest that this little novel is coming sooner, and then it will be going to be a big one. I don't know why there's no reason to wait for this, why it needs to be dealt with right now. Another thing to remember is that the term of three months in which the Senate is to elect new members of the Czech Television Council is extremely short. Again, it seems that the petitioner here is motivated by an effort to occupy his nominees as soon as possible, without any wider debate or prudent process of choosing the best candidates and evaluating their quality and contribution to the Czech Television Council. Why can't it be six months? Would the six-month deadline exceed any of the dates mentioned here in the House? Another thing I would like to draw attention to is such a practical thing that according to the provisions of § 4 para. One third of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are to be elected every two years. This principle is also taken over by the proposed amendments to both laws. In this context, however, the Government's Legislative Council also points out that the rule in question is not only not respected in the long term, but cannot be actually respected, given the different beginnings of the six-year term of office of existing members. Thus, regardless of the content of the draft law presented, it is a rule that is basically obsolent. Maintaining such a rule in the law in a situation where it is evident that it will not be observed would be contrary to the requirement that legislation be clear, understandable and, in particular, internally indisputable. Renewing compliance with the rule of replacement of members of the board after thirds in a regular period of time would not only be extremely difficult in legislative terms, but in all likelihood also factually problematic, which is shown by practice. The objective pursued, i.e. that the members of the Board should gradually change and maintain a certain degree of continuity, which is actually achieved by the fact that the term of office of the members of the Board does not end at one time. Another of the things that I don't think have been so highlighted here today is why the requirement of ten-year-old designers, namely nominated legal entities, is being anchored. That time doesn't seem proportional or in any way effective. It's not really a reliable way to filter out all the unacceptable candidates for somebody. After all, some candidates or candidates will always be unacceptable to someone. In this context, I would draw particular attention to the fact that, even in the past, such the biggest social discussions were raised by candidates nominated by established legal entities. This is, for example, in the case of Mrs Lipovská, when it was the Czech Bishop's Conference, or Pavel Matocha, where it was the Czech Chess Union, the Association of Lawyers Všehrd, the Centre of Economic Studies of the University of Economics and Management. In addition, the proposed regulation allows legal persons who have been engaged in a completely different field of social activity for 10 years and only for nomination purposes to apply internal rules, i.e. their status, to comply with the nomination requirement additionally. It is clear that this procedure is actually a denial of the intended purpose. Some partial issues, such as the ten-year existence and some other small ones, show us that perhaps the most important is the change in the number of members and a very short period of time to choose them. Whether my coalition colleagues are angry with me or not, and we can talk about our worlds in which we live, there are just the questions that the motion raises. And one of the most important questions is why this amendment cannot wait until the promised big amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, which the Minister also spoke of, is preparing. I don't think there's any reason why this couldn't be discussed at the same time as the big novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u156	Thank you. The next one will be presented in the general debate by Mr. colleague Hrnčíř, registered twice in a row, so the first ten minutes and then I will give him the limit for the second time. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u157	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to comment on the proposed amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. Personally, I would say that it is time for Czech Television to change from the ground up, whether its funding, its reporting, its management, everything needs to be changed. Czech Television's declining credibility was also confirmed by STEM's survey of June this year, when the results speak clearly and not very flatteringly for Czech Television. It thus strikes the head of Czech television by Petr Dvořák and some politicians, how this public television is a credible medium, whose quality and integrity are questioned only by a small handful of loudspeakers. [[19.10 hours]] According to the results of the survey, the reality is somewhat different. Czech television certainly believes only 9 percent of respondents and rather believes only another 33 percent. I would therefore expect this survey to be the last impulse of the Czech Government, that the situation with regard to Czech television continues to be unsustainable and that rapid changes are needed. And indeed, the government has come up with an amendment to the Czech Television Act, but there is no such necessary modification in this amendment. On the contrary, what this amendment contains makes me uncomfortable. This is a fundamental change in the way in which the Czech Television and Czech Radio control councils are elected, where the government coalition promotes an adjustment according to which a third of the Senate members would vote in the future, which has only been the Chamber of Deputies. I would just like to remind you that the Czech Television Council is to oversee the Czech Television, and it is therefore necessary to include personalities representing as broad a part of the public as possible. The board should then be politically neutral. In direct conflict with this requirement, the proposed amendment is just another step towards the complete political domination of Czech Television and Czech Radio by the ruling coalition, because while the Chamber of Deputies represents the will of citizens, the Senate has no legitimacy in this. Individual senators are elected by approximately 10 percent of voters, representing an absolute minority of the public. The proposed amendment will thus lead to a further departure from democracy towards the political dictatorship of the ruling coalition, and I cannot agree with that. On the contrary, as I have already submitted, I agree that there is a need for fundamental changes in the way the leadership and funding of Czech Television operate. It is no secret that the SPD movement is a long-term critic of the conditions and functioning of Czech television, and that the criticism is justified, it is more and more obvious every day. It is absurd that citizens of the Czech Republic are forced to pay licence fees, even if they declare that they do not watch or trust Czech TV. If we realize that more than half of the citizens do not believe in Czech television, namely 58 percent, it is clear to the most glamorous fans of Czech television that this situation is still unsustainable. The fact is that this public institution is paid for by the money of citizens who are forced by law to do so and who do not believe it mostly, so it would be expected that the government should intervene and propose an amendment to the law that would modify this. None of this is happening. The government keeps pretending that such funding is perfectly sound. Unbiased news has gradually vanished from our public media. Editors often confuse messages with comments. There is a selection of politically acceptable topics, politically incorrect comments usually do not appear, and if, only once, as if no one expected objectivity from the current media anymore. There is a constant repetition of the mantra of independence, the content of which few think anymore. No one would ever think to talk about independence in the case of private media. However, in the case of public media, we have a false feeling that it belongs to all the people and that it also defends their interests because it is said that it provides public service. It is the incompetence of the concept of public service that creates room for different influence groups in order to strengthen their political power. This false notion that the media, which actually belongs to everyone, must be automatically independent and objective, then provides them with an advantageous defensive position whenever someone tries to uncover the ties and political goals of these groups. Their call to mobilize the public to defend the independence of public media is therefore merely a call to defend their own political influence. In these circumstances, when Czech Television does not provide high-quality and balanced coverage, when it often does not invite representatives of all political parties, as it should, according to their representation in the Chamber of Deputies, when they film special-purpose and defensive reports, when its moderators, contrary to any ethics, openly oppose representatives of certain political parties and movements, so that they openly display an hostile attitude to those who do not like it, challenge them by what they have not allowed half the sentences to be completed. This is scandalous behavior even in private media, notabene is a public television network that has and must provide balanced news coverage and represent the interests of all citizens who, after all, are paying for it. I therefore find it incredible how untransparably Czech television is doing that it blackens important contracts and documents that it continues to hide the salaries of its leading moderators, to which I would like to comment the director of Czech Television, who remarked that the non-publicisation of salaries is probably a kind of protection for citizens, because, I quote, society is not ready to publish salaries for prominent employees. I would just like to point out that the salaries of constitutional officials are published by law. It seems, therefore, that Czech TV moderators are standing up to the parliament, the legislators, and perhaps even the law itself. Taking into account the recent scandal that, according to the public testimony of the former reporter of Czech Television, Markéta Dobiášová's editor-in-chief, Marek Wollner probably covered up the case of organised crime, corruption and mafia ties in the STAN movement for almost three years, my previous words do not seem excessive. The editor of Czech Television Reporters Markéta Dobiášová, who, in November 2019, processed a report on the STAN corruption case for Czech Television Reporters, publicly stated that she sent all the documents by e-mail to the editor-in-chief Wollner, who, however, had never broadcast the report and responded negatively to her later questions as to whether the documents would be used at least partially. I would like to quote a small part of Markéta Dobiášová's open letter for a more accurate picture: Stop the investigation into the case under way is entirely within the competence of the editor-in-chief. I'm surprised the Czech News Agency didn't use long-recorded verified facts and information even after the media arrest of Hlubuček and his associates. The kauza of Lysolaj was published in this context as the first editors of the News. It's not up to me to assess why the reportér at least let the case of Lysolai take the competition. I'm pretty clear from the start. It was a case that pointed to the link between developers, politicians, the way in which public property was handled. I stopped watching her, and for the past six months I've been overseeing how she's been handled by students of journalism at Charles University. I think they've done a great job. Dobiášová is finished. This strange inaction by the editor-in-chief of the Czech News Agency, who not only did not act alone, but also refused to publish the facts already gathered, is at least striking. How can a man with the task of publishing facts cover a mafia and corruption scandal for three years? How is it possible that he continues to work with Czech Television? How will Czech Television then claim that it is independent and provides quality and balanced news? I would still like to stop by the Czech TV business. The current situation in which the Czech Television's management cannot control even the Supreme Audit Office, and the only thing I would hardly be afraid to say is the adoption of annual reports in the Chamber of Deputies, is probably completely inadequate and I would say scandalous. After all, with the huge assets of a managing public institution, it cannot go through merely some kind of formal control in the form of approval of the annual reports by the House. In addition, these are documents that are content-filled with information from the external audit ordered and paid. The Council of Czech Television, which is primarily discussed in today's amendment to the Act, also has its control mechanisms influenced by the fact that it is paid from the budget of Czech Television. This needs to be changed as soon as possible. The SPD therefore proposes that licence fees be abolished and that Czech television be paid directly from the chapter of the Czech Republic's budget under the supervision of the Supreme Audit Office, as is the case with other institutions managing citizens' money. The director of Czech Television Petr Dvořák said a few years ago on the Czech Television screen that he would not have minded the possibility of controlling the Czech Television's finances by the Supreme Audit Office, and he called on Members to adopt the relevant amendment to the law. I agree with the Director on this, and I call on you, colleagues, to support the efforts of the SPD movement, to change the way of financing Czech television. There is a need for institutions managing such giant assets to finally have comparable conditions and adequate control mechanisms. All the more so, that the director Petr Dvořák clearly agrees so willingly, for which I thank him. So let us work together on really needed changes regarding the functioning of Czech Television and Czech Radio. It's more than time. However, I cannot support or support the proposed amendment to the law, which is clearly intended to deepen, not resolve, the problems outlined by me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u158	Thank you. And in order for the general debate, Mr Nacher is still on the list, whom I will ask to speak. In the meantime, I'll load two apologies. Mrs Fialová apologizes from 21 o'clock, family reasons, and Mr František Petrtýl apologizes from 19 o'clock to the end of the negotiations for health reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[The Member of the Interview objects to the absence of ministers.]] There's no minister here. So I'm gonna put out a minute break and see if there's a minister around. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 19.20 to 19.21 hours.]] One minute's up. Two ministers arrived in the hall, and Mr Nacher can perform properly. Please, Ambassador, your ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u159	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear two ministers present, I almost dare say I won't last ten minutes, I'll surprise you. I will only have a few comments on what is actually happening here, this is a special special meeting for the amendment of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, in terms of content and procedure. And I'll have a few questions, so if the Minister of Culture can respond or the rapporteur can. As for the procedure, I'd really like to ask why we have an emergency meeting on a point like this that can be postponed. Because I think this extraordinary meeting is some kind of process where we're dealing with some really fundamental issues here about, I don't know, the energy crisis, the approval of a budget amendment, windfall tax, and all that stuff that's justified. As we've said here many times, I can disagree, we won't obsess about it, because there's, like, a politically different view of it. But I don't understand why - and I would like to say this to cancel the EET - you're repeatedly using the possibility of extraordinary meetings that are all day, because logically the opposition is also resisting through obstruction, as my colleagues here have spoken quite briefly, at this novel. What's so busy there, what's so urgent, what's so urgent, what's there that can't be delayed so it doesn't wake up in a proper meeting? I kind of suspect, but I'd quite like to hear it from you. The second point. I wasn't there, I was on the electoral committee during the last parliamentary term, not this time, but I find it a bit strange to change the rapporteur. That's really not usual. Most of the time, the rapporteur is always formed in agreement with the committee chair with the individual members. I was, like, three times the rapporteur of the report on Czech Television's management, because I was a member of the electoral committee, I deal with finances and so on, so it was some logical choice. After that, I refused to report the other reports so that it spread to other members and did not do so just the same. So I'm kind of wondering what the reason was, and now I'm really serious, because I didn't sit there because the rapporteur of this standard changed because that's unusual for me in the procedure. So we have an emergency meeting, actually, an extraordinary newsletter for me. Well, I'm cutting it a lot short, but now to the content. Colleagues, my colleagues told me at the press conference today. For me, it's typical, it's my favorite double standard. I can't imagine if we could come up with this suggestion about what would happen. That would be full of Wenceslas, Staromak and Malostranské náměstí at once, because it would be an attack on the independence of Czech television. I'll bet you what you want here, 'cause I basically have circumstantial proof of that. I, as rapporteur two, three years ago, wanted us to interrupt this report before the Czech Television Council answered my inquisitive questions, which I deprived myself of after a thorough reading of the management report. There were 21 of them. It is said that the largest number of questions the rapporteur has ever asked in the election committee. Take a good look at the electoral committee's log. And even then, some of the opposition Members here have said that this is an attack on the independence of Czech Television, that this is the preparation for non-approval of those reports that would lead to the appeal of the Czech Television Council. And I just asked the questions, I wanted to interrupt. And it was an attack on the independence of Czech television. Now all of a sudden, the number of councillors is increasing from 15 to 18, which is not accompanied but by an increase in the number of councillors at the Czech Radio Council, so I wonder why. That's a legitimate question, that's not an attack. That's just legitimate. From 15 to 18, from 9 to 9. What's the reason? Now I don't care if it's an even, odd number, but I'm kind of curious. And I mean that symbolically. I mean, we're telling these people that it's supposed to be saved, that you're gonna be cutting back on the government or in the public administration. That's public television, not state television, so far, so it's about symbols. We've been dealing with the number of Vice-Presidents here for the first three months, which is bigger than before. It's a symbol. And there's actually three more councilmen to suggest. They are paid from the budget of the Czech Television, which collects licence fees, which means it will be paid by citizens. It's not called a tax, it's called a licence fee, and it's paid by citizens. So it's a symbol. Why should there be more? Are they gonna be more busy? Or is 15 too late? This is simply a legitimate non-aggressive question about the reason and reason why the number of members of the Czech Television Council is increasing. And only then, because I saw that the minister volunteered, if I understood correctly, he would answer me, so I would respond to him in a factual way, but that would really interest me. Likewise, why does the appeal or appointment of the Director-General change there from two thirds to a simple majority. Again, what's the reason? That's just a legitimate question. I can't shake the impression that this has something to do with the CEO's election next year. And I beg you and I ask you to look at this with our point of view, where last time, as I say again, we were accused of attacking the independence of Czech television when we did not have automatic consent to the management report. I'll talk about what I read. Not the activity report, but the management report. Now you're proposing an amendment to the law, which I don't think is justified, that there's an increase in the number of councillors, there's a change in the kvorum, there's an extraordinary meeting, there's no consent from the professional public, but suddenly there's no mention of an attack on the independence of Czech television. So just don't be mad at me, that's my legitimate concern for me, and if you don't tell me it's a beautiful double standard, and I'm kind of interested in some self-esteem, how would you look if we came up with the exact same proposal you're coming up with in the last term, if that's okay with you? Just try to imagine. And I think if we're seeing what happened here in the last term, and what you're proposing right now, and you're seeing some - you have some reflexes, the concerns that have been raised here all day, which I had the opportunity to hear, they're legitimate. [[19.30 hours]] I'll ask the Minister to respond to this in some way. I was trying to make it short, didn't read anything, as usual. Then I'll ask if the Minister can respond. Maybe I'll put some more questions to the point, and I guess that's the end of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u160	The Minister of Culture with priority rights is attached to the factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u161	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Sorry for the confusion. I have failed to demonstrate what I need, because a factual point would not be sufficient for the space that I would like to devote to the response to the initiative put forward by my colleague Nacher. I'd only like a general introduction. As you can see, I've been sitting here since 9:00 this morning, meaning to sit here until we're done because it's important. I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that, after a brief heated debate sometime before lunch, the contributions are being heard, I would say, in a form that is such that the authors feel that they are saying this in a subtle way. I share that feeling, which is important. I, of course, cannot agree at all in principle with what the SPD colleagues, Members of Parliament, are saying here. I think it is unarguable that one of the reasons for the defect of the bill is the low number of people involved in the Senate elections. But I take it there's just some sort of principled dispute between us where I can hardly deny your opinion, and I guess you'll find it difficult to accept mine. But it's just some kind of legitimate argument. Now, let me actually sum up a few comments on what my colleague Nacher has outlined in such a clear and obvious way. An interesting question was raised at the outset, why people are not on Wenceslas, why they do not feel that something is happening that threatens public media. In fact, I think that I have already given an answer to this in my response to Mr Juchelka's speech, the chairman of the committee, and Mr Babka's colleague. It is simply because the people who are watching this do not believe the interpretation that some Members and some members of the ANO movement say here. That MEPs, legislators for the YES movement, our coalition and I are personally accused of attempting to take control of the Czech Television. It really fell like strong words - Hungarian and Polish roads, the end of freedom, swamping, everything and so on. Dear colleague Nacher, through Vice-President Skopeček, people and the professional public simply do not believe this interpretation. I appreciate it, because if people who care about the independence of public media would enter into the streets by looking or reading this novel of ours, it would be a sign that something bad is happening. So I just don't think they believe your interpretation that this is some kind of violent attempt to take over the public media. It's just because it's not. That this proposal does not go for anything like this. And as I have repeatedly tried to explain here, I think that the arguments that I can bear are fully relevant and that your thought world built on that thought that someone wants to control something just doesn't correspond to reality. I think the people and the experts believe more in our interpretation that we deliberately put obstacles in our way in relation to what they might look like, in quotes, the potential control of public media. I think it was a colleague Vondráček or a colleague Novák, one of you just compared this proposal to the Polish road and talked about what is currently happening there. He was a colleague of Vondráček. I am in close contact thanks to European Media Freedom Acts with Commissioner Jourová, who has, among other things, a portfolio of what is called the rule of law. For example, Mrs Jourová, the Commissioner, will also express doubts as to whether or not our proposal is an attempt to dominate the public media. Since this amendment has been under discussion for quite a long time and she is no doubt watching, she sees the media in the field, there is good cooperation with her, so she would have told me, but it hasn't happened yet. I just think that you're creating a fake, artificial impression that we're dealing with controlling the public media, and that it's not believed. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe people go out on those streets, maybe there's an interpretation in the professional media, but it hasn't yet. But it's purely my speculation. My colleague Nacher asked why he's not full of Václavák, so I'm saying my impression of why he's doing this. I don't want to comment on the questions about the rapporteur's change. I suppose that, if he wants, is commented by my colleague, Lacina, I was not there. Why an emergency meeting? So we've already included the proposal at the proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Lacina, was it ever last Thursday or last Thursday? But actually, I would say, it crashed right at the very beginning, when it was the members of the ANO and the SPD movement who wore really a bunch of those applications for amendments to the agenda. I think there was also some big opening act that made it clear that we didn't have a chance to discuss the proposal at all in real time. I am aware of the reservations you have, but at the same time as the Minister of Culture responsible for presenting this legislation, I say that the bill is important. It's a little fake, forgive me, comparing it to the importance of the laws that help citizens deal with the current economic crisis. But I think the bill is important because it simply means some concrete change in legislation, increasing the resilience of public media and their political independence at present. That's why he has a priority for me that you may not understand or want to understand. And, of course, it's completely legitimate. Why are the councillors increasing? My colleague Vondráček, I did not respond to him in the course of the discussion, he ripped out of context my expression that democracy is expensive. But I'm gonna repeat it here again. I'm gonna say it again, because we're not talking here about the fact that, excuse me for the term, temperamental abuse, it just increases the number of councillors of Czech television. I already think that Mr Brož here rightly quoted the figures, the total amount of the budget, when Czech Television is running around CZK 7 billion - or if it was someone else, then I apologize to Mr Vice-President - Czech Radio with some amount of over CZK 1 billion. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Two billion sorry, two billion, I actually said it myself, two billion crowns. And I myself supported the proposal to increase the number of councillors in proportion to twelve to six simply because such a large and significant institution should have adequate advice. And yes, it costs some money, but as I have responded to it once before, if we were to accept the logic that the cost of democracy, when we say it like that, is the only criterion for applying some control mechanisms, then we don't have to have any advice. So I said that we can have a two-member Czech Radio Council and a three-member Czech Television and say that's enough. That's just the whole reason. Yes, 18 councilmen are quite a number. Yes, public Czech Television is a key important institution. Well, that's just some connection that you may not agree with, but I think it has some role to play that I stand for and consider important. In fact, the principle is that we as the Chamber of Deputies, as legislators, are to create an environment in which the public media will function effectively. And here, when I say that democracy is expensive and that democracy is sometimes lengthy, we apply both of these criteria in this case. Yes, the law is long. Yes, a higher number of councilmen will bring some financial costs. Moreover, yes, we are putting obstacles in our way to reduce the temptation to influence public media. And that's the whole point of this novel. I think they're, I'd say, some measured answers to the questions my colleague Nacher asked. I don't know if we can agree on principle or not. But I just consider it fair even in this more advanced time to say this and stress that I believe that this is an important legislation. Of course, the preparation of the so-called big amendment to the law of the public media will be very demanding. I have the ambition to come up with something concrete, whether it concerns the financing of the public media, the introduction of control by the Supreme Audit Office, or even the so-called technological changes. I don't know if it's gonna work, but I want to make it public and clear that I'm definitely gonna try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u162	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Babka will now speak and Mr Nacher will be prepared. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will try to answer Mr. Nacher, too, because I just don't believe the Minister's words, which he has repeated here for the second time. And I don't trust them because you said here that if you wanted to go the way we think you're going, that the simplest way is to dismiss the board as a whole, that you're not going to change the law. Yes, I agree with you, however, you would go against yourself and against what you were doing here in the last parliamentary term, i.e. by not approving two consecutive reports, so of course this option was not feasible for you. The second variant you're here - and that's why I'm talking about it, because you're talking about increasing the number of councilmen because of something that democracy is expensive and so on. However, the first proposal, in which you left the number of councillors at 15. However, you were counting on the whole board to be able to call off and elect all 15 councilmen again. You were even there, my colleague Nacher asked about it, leaving it tovorum 11 out of 15, respectively you raised it. It wasn't 10 out of 15 but 11 out of 15. When the Justice Department dropped it like it wasn't unconstitutional, you said it was constitutionally unconstitutional, so you figured out the option that you'd increase the number to 18. And wonder to the world, you have reduced the call for the appeal and appointment of the CEO of Czech Television, not the necessary two-thirds, but 10 out of 18, i.e. a simple majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u164	Thank you for keeping time. The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Nacher. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u165	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for responding and responding. It's not always on all the points, so I'd like to appreciate that. Now the answers. I'm basically - but you did a nice job, Minister - but I didn't actually get the answer, because the only legitimate reason to increase the number of councilmen from 15 anywhere to 18 is that 15 of them wouldn't be able to keep up with their work right now. That's, for me, as legitimate as the reason there's an increased cost, increased pressure on those councilmen. I would've likened it to something that had nothing to do with it, but so that we could visualize it the way we do. I've been talking about the state budget. I need increased pressure on the ERU right now, the Energy Regulatory Office. Energy crisis, people, change of suppliers and so on. There's more pressure, and I'm calling for you as a government to increase the ERU budget. Logically, because we say after these people, if you are unhappy with the billing, please contact the ERÚ. There is clearly more interest, greater consumer pressure, more employees. And that's what I miss around here. I didn't notice that the 15 councilmen couldn't make it, and we need to raise it to 18. The symbolic plane of being 18 out of 15, that's symbolic, I'm not counting the extra three councilmen here, but it's symbolic for those outsiders because we're telling them to save, they have two sweaters that the state is setting an example. And basically, almost any thing that is being promoted here is an increase in the number of employees in the public sphere. It's about 8,000, that's even in the National Budget Act of 2023. So that's why I'd like to understand even more about the increased number from 15 to 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u166	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. With priority rights, Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u167	Perhaps a factual point would suffice. I really appreciate this discussion, I think it's very important. I don't think it makes sense here as... or it makes sense, Mr. Ambassador, Babka, through the Vice-President, of course tell any opinions you see fit, but again I say, there's nothing that means the Justice Department has knocked down our bill. I really just need to say it. It was like a clash between two legal opinions, when the Government Legislative Council's lawyers had a much more strict view of it than the Ministry of Culture's lawyers. And I really appreciate my attorneys at the ministry, and their opinion was relevant. Don't create that image that we were trying to do some unconstitutional move that didn't work out, so we did something else instead. I mean, if it were here, Mr. Ambassador, we wouldn't be putting it in eKLEP, or there'd be some kind of agreement, who knows, which we reject. Just if I may ask, please don't spread the unsubstantiated but factually incorrect messages here. You're just saying factually incorrect messages. If you're saying it's a law, what did you say it was? Act on the election of the Director General. So I can smile and say yes, so you need to say a media shortcut. O.K., it's your right, but don't support this unfair argument like you just repeated here again because it was just an opinional conflict between two lawyers. And what Patrik Nacher said. I don't think it's called "Fifteen Councillors Missed." The Czech Television Board is not an administrative office such as the ERU. It's just that if we make a decision, and I think it's right to make it harder for any attempt to dominate the public media and especially for those who come after us, the Senate is involved. And when the ratio is 12-6, I think it's the relevant number of representatives elected by the Chamber of Deputies and elected by the Senate. That's the point. Just public television means not only 7 billion budgets, or an amount like this, and it's just the key institution of our country. I am grateful that the Czech Republic has public television, of course public radio also and public media, which are sometimes annoying, annoying, complaining, saying something like that, so it is not fair and so on. [[unintelligible]] But it is in principle a healthy, robust, important institution, which is to be controlled in the economic sense, but which is to have some kind of supervision, correction, dialogue with its councils, which are elected by the representative bodies, i.e. the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, if that happens. One of your colleagues from the ANO movement here in his performance said the laws were outdated - or was it someone from the SPD? That you can't even define the publicity in the media. When I decided, as soon as I joined the Ministry in January, that we would be fulfilling government statements and preparing those amendments from the very beginning, I read this optics of the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act, those valid ones, and was surprised how wisely I was in 1991 - or 1992, Mr. Ambassador? ... 1992 - those who wrote those laws, as they wrote it well, in a clear, concise, clear way. [[to the rapporteur]] But if we simply want to have a dialogue between public representatives and that very strong, large institution, such as Czech Television and Czech Radio, I think it is adequate that there are more people in the Czech Television Council specifically than there are 15. It's not connected to the fact that they're not following. They're just meeting, they're having some kind of discussion, yes, there's some kind of complaint agenda and all that. We don't have to agree to that. And I'm prepared to defend that opinion, however much it means to raise funds. And it is in favour of the public media, and it is in general also in favour of those who consider their role to be absolutely essential in our society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u168	Thank you. Mr Babka will make a point of fact. Please, your minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u169	Thank you for the floor. Patrik Nacher asks, the minister answers, and I explain. [[Slight entertainment in the hall.]] The point is, you're skipping 9 councilmen on the Czech Radio. Nine councilmen are divisible by three. That is, where you introduce the principle of the six Councillors of the Chamber of Deputies, the 3 Councillors of the Senate. The current state of the councillors of Czech Television is 15. 15 divided by 3 is 5, so here you can introduce exactly the same principle as you introduced the Czech Radio Council. That means 10 councilmen could vote for the Chamber of Deputies, five councilmen could vote for the Senate. Even in the transitional provisions of this law, you write that the councillor on Czech Radio, because you do not increase the number - and I repeat again, you only increase the number of Councillors on Czech Television because it is the choice of the CEO next year to make the figures work for you. You lower the kvorum to 10 out of 18 instead of 10 out of 15 to just make it work, so in the case of those councillors in the Czech Radio, in a transitional provision, you give them lots, which 6 will be elected by the Chamber of Deputies and who 3 will be elected by the Senate. Thus, the rumors that democracy is expensive, that Czech television deserves advice, which should have not 15, but 18 members, are really, really odd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u170	Is the Minister applying for action? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u171	For the last time, just a brief reaction. I think, Mr Babka, through the Vice-President, that Mr Nacher might be unhappy with your explanation. I'm really sorry, but if you are, if you are in the role of his spokesperson, I don't think he'll be happy with that. Don't manipulate here whether there's an even or an odd number of members. What is it, if you can explain it then, what is the problem? If I just divide it by two, and I'm looking for an absolute majority of all, then in one case I'm going to go to the number of 10 and in the other case to the number of 6. What's the problem, is it 18 or 17? What's the problem if it's even or odd? As in the work of the institution, deciding what the vast majority of them are does not matter. And again, it is not true that we are trying to decide the choice of Czech Television, the director of Czech Television. Bring some proof, Mr. Maw Babka Maw, in that case, why this is so. Where one of us said: we want to control the Council of Czech Television and then choose the CEO. Don't mess with the public, don't explain things here that don't support reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. We will continue the general debate. With a factual remark... with priority rights. Please, Mr. Rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u173	Thanks. So you're using the same system in the debate today that you've been asking the same questions in many people for several times, so I'm willing to offer you a very similar answer, as Minister Baxa has now offered. Czech TV is a budget three times, maybe three and a half times larger than Czech Radio. Therefore, it seems quite logical for the Czech Television Council to be controlled by more members of the Czech Television Council than it is on Czech Radio. It's 2:1, the ratio. And then, of course, given that there was a pretty definite agreement in the coalition that the share between the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies should be 1:2, you're looking for a number that will fill this up for you, and that number 18 will satisfy you that it's 2:1, or 12:6, and it's divisible after those two years, which means that every two years the Chamber of Deputies will vote for the Councillor, while the Senate will vote for two councillors in the case of Czech Television and half in the case of Czech Radio. That logic was our ambition. What you've been trying to get us through here from the beginning, the Minister has already responded to you, is a certain picture of your view of the world. And in the end, I'd say everything always ends in a different way than everyone else imagines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u174	Thank you, too. I'll load up the apologies. Today, Mr Stanislav Fridrich apologizes from 19.45 for health reasons, Mr Julius Špičák from 19.45 for health reasons and Mr František Petrtýl from 19.00 for health reasons. We'll continue to register properly. Next up, Mr Karel Sládeček will appear and Mr Stanislav Berkovec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u175	Thank you, Mr President. milý dáma, gentlemen, the proposal for an amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act contains several fundamental changes. The members of the Council will now be elected both by the Chamber of Deputies and by the Senate. At a time when all state institutions should be saving, you propose to increase the number of members of the Czech Television Council from 15 to 18 and the Czech Radio from 6 to 9 members. This will increase the cost of the remuneration of these new members, which will be paid from the budget of Czech Television, i.e. from licence fees, but it is an unnecessary waste of our citizens' money, as is actually a good custom for the Fialův Sponsored Government. Czech TV will manage the budget of CZK 7 billion this year, which is CZK 235 million more than last year. However, the management of this super-business is obscured by darkness. The CEO is de facto the only master of all finances. This is absolutely unique in European relations. No one knows, for example, the salaries and rewards of moderators, even though they include all citizens paying licence fees. The director even proposed an increase in the fees for Czech television by at least CZK 15 at a time when energy and food are expensive at an extreme rate and roughly half a million citizens live on the poverty line. It is also alleged that a licence fee for billing of a mobile phone or the Internet is being set up. The result should be that the licence fee will have to be paid by a much larger number of people. A lot of young people don't own TV these days. And that most people own a mobile phone with internet connection does not mean that all mobile phone owners should contribute to propaganda television. According to a recent survey by STEM, 58% of Czech citizens do not believe in Czech television. Czech television actually believes only 9 percent of the citizens, which is a terrifying result. It is no wonder to our citizens when, as Parliamentary Leaves write, ČT reporters already had information about the practices of Deputy Hlubuček in 2019, but the report on his land clowns in Lysolaje was stopped. Her author Markéta Dobiášová now spoke openly about what was going on at DVTV with Daniela Písařovicová. According to her, the editor-in-chief, Mr. Marek Wollner, was constantly trying to distract a couple of editors from a blind dorm, and now he's getting involved in his claims. She also mentioned the conclusion of the case, when he blamed her for everything and asked when she would get out of his editor's office. That's when the STAN case was swept under the carpet. I ask: How many similar cases of the STAN movement or other parties of the five koalice Czech television swept under the carpet? According to the Czech Television Act, one of the main tasks of Czech Television is to provide objective, verified, in its whole balanced and versatile information for free making of opinion, which is not the case, see the case of Mr. Editor-in-Chief Wollner. The majority of complaints received by the Czech Television Council are intended to cover four personalities or editors: Mr Wollner, Mrs Fridrichová, Mr Moravec and Mr Železný. I recently learned from Czech Radio that Czech Television host Mr Jakub Železný is seriously considering running for CEO of Czech Television, provided that the current director Petr Dvořák is not running again. It is true that the son is not responsible for his father's actions, for which taxpayers have paid over CZK 10 billion in lost arbitration with CME. Such a person should not be our main moralizer on Czech television. Or can you imagine, for example, a descendant of Clement Gottwald preaching democracy to us here? Some Czech TV moderators are biased against opposition parties, as an example can be given to Mr Moravec, who has privatized the program Questions by Václav Moravec, where he invites only his chosen ones and, for example, President Tomio Okamura, according to recent surveys, has never invited the president of the third largest political party to his programme for more than eight years. How is it possible that such a fundamental error by Mr Moravec is not solved on Czech television? Mr. Václav Moravec's supervisor should arrange, within the objective and balance of informing Mr. Moravc, to invite the President of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, President of the movement representing half a million citizens. Or does Mr. Václav Moravec have no superior? That's exactly how it affects me. Czech television has long failed to fulfil its main tasks. Its transmission is objective, unbalanced, distorted and often false, and therefore its credibility is historically at its lowest level. It might as well be called disinformation. By the amendment of the law, the five-wheelers want to completely control the Czech Television, the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council, so as to ensure the choice of the new director of Czech Television. I will therefore vote against the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u176	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Stanislav Berkovec will now appear and prepare Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant evening, within the limits of options. I'd like to thank you for the debate being cultivated now. I think it should be, and most importantly, it should be much longer in the case of such an important law in my opinion. You know, in me, the House press brings out such conflicting feelings. I'm disillusioned and sad about him. I am disillusioned that despite the opposition of legislative lawyers, the Legislative Council of the Government, ministries, the government is really trying to force it at all costs, and sad that I really don't think it's the most important law... Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u178	Mr. Minister asked me if he could use the restroom. [[Mr Kubíček of the diaper argues that in that case he should not be here as the only minister in the negotiations.]] If you'd like, I can interrupt the meeting. [[Yes.]] Okay. In that case, I will extend the time of your speech, and I will interrupt the meeting until 20.05 before the Minister arrives. [[to Mr Berkovc]] [[After a minute, Minister Baxa enters the hall.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, we can continue the negotiations. The Minister has arrived. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u179	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, to get back to why I'm sad. Because I don't think that's really the most important legislative standard we need right now. I'm convinced that you're all going out with people, I mean normal people, and if you come to some country car dealership where guys eat cold lunch at noon and drink two cold coffees during the day, and if you ask them what they think about Czech TV and the amendment to the law, they'll probably send you somewhere, as far as they're concerned, to some part of the program. But they will be very qualified to describe what is bothering them and what laws are bothering them because it is important to them. And I'm sure this amendment isn't even important to the prosperity of this country. When we look at it in more detail, the text of the amendment kind of resembles some sort of social engineering. Three conservatively-looking parties, i.e. ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL, have decided to break down actually a 20-year system for the choice of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Council. In fact, for thirty years, members of both media councils have been elected by the Chamber of Deputies, and 21 years have been chosen on the basis of proposals from interest organisations and associations. I'd like to come over here, too. I think the ten-year deadline, or the condition of the ten-year existence of these associations, is determining and discriminatory. Of course, in the electoral committee, we experienced associations that were founded, and before it was valid de jure, they applied as candidates for some kind of media council. That was, of course, purposeful, and I reject that. But for ten years, I think it's really a lot. I didn't read the explanatory note on what's wrong with the current state of affairs. In fact, the five-calice government wants to change this method and justifies it with the government's programming statement. I was one of those who said yes in the last parliamentary term, so let the Senate intervene in the election of media councils. It is because, in fact, we have not yet had a two-chamber parliament at the time of the law. There are different ways in the world. We have a public system that I consider very democratic. Somewhere there are government systems, somewhere the president is involved. In any case, I am not a friend of such booby-trapped stock, because what we are going to talk about is the election of members of the board goes beyond the length of our mandates, and about two years, there is a change in a third of the councillors, so any interference will disrupt this cycle and threaten the proper functioning of the media councils. Thanks to last year's obstructions of the parties of the current government coalition, we almost eliminated the Czech Television Council. Based on what the experienced people who had been here for many more years in the Chamber of Deputies said, it never happened that a firmly placed electoral point, which was this choice, was in this way, in such a trivial way and for so long, several months, be built up. It just doesn't compare. And now you have succeeded - you, the government coalition - especially thanks to the public election to enforce names, let's say, your favorites to the Czech Television Council. But it is you who will be responsible for further developments on Czech television. The future of Czech Television is certainly not as pink as it was presented by Czech Television CEO Petr Dvořák to members of the Czech Television Council in February this year. In February, he described in the long-term plans how by the end of 2024 the possibility of deduction of VAT, which we approved under the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, would operate without significant restrictions. At the end of May, he announced quite harsh cuts for almost a billion crowns in two years. This is about as much for an idea as if the government had reduced the state budget by 130 billion, i.e. at this ratio. One can think of what must have happened to the management of Czech Television? Energy prices have been rising since last year, so a good manager should reveal this and calculate it correctly and on time. I think we need to find that answer somewhere else. Czech TV described its economic state to us more pinkly than it was really - now I may have said it quite elegantly. For years we have heard of a balanced budget, but in fact and under the silent approval of the board, or because of the ignorance of the members of the Czech Television Council, billions of reserves were drawn up during the years of Jiří Janeček's director. And such management has ended. You can't live off the reserves forever. And perhaps, finally, in the Kavčí Mountains, they counted on income to fall, have no money for normal operation and contractual and payable liabilities, which would have been reflected at the end of the year when the Council approved the budget for 2023. And that could be too late for a TV that plans to produce at least two years in advance. Yes, the CEO could follow a long-term plan if the councilmen didn't approve his budget, but that would actually keep the black Petr in his hand, and it would be him who would throw the TV...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u180	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'll beg you to lower your voice in the left side of the hall. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u181	Because it would be him who would throw the TV into insolvency. That's why he ordered a diet. If it's right, it'll show. It is hard to draw conclusions when Czech Television provides only a piece of information on management. For example, you will not know from the annual reports how much it costs to broadcast ČT24 or ČT Sport. How many people work in the news, how much money it costs, how much 40 or 55 minutes of evening news, 25 minutes of regional news, and more and more. Not to mention transport, which is actually included in some big flat-rate, which is divided into individual productions. And that's how I got to the annual TV news. As you know, we receive two reports every year from the Council of Czech Radio and Czech Television on activities and also on management. Everyone seems to be able to connect that there is no activity without activity and that without money there is no activity and that you can't evaluate it well enough if you don't know how much it costs. That is why six years ago, there was already a parliamentary proposal that we should receive one single report, as is the case with commercial corporations, but also with the state budget and state funds, which we know from our parliamentary work. It was press 708 and I dare to read the justification from the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u182	Mr. Ambassador, it's just, your first ten minutes have passed, which means you're going to continue with the second ten minutes, you're going to pick up straight. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u183	Thank you. So I dare to read the reasoning from the explanatory memorandum. The amendment removes illogical practice when the Council of Czech Television or Czech Radio gives independent annual activity report and annual management report. In keeping with the rules of common sense, it is clear that the activities and resources spent on them are inseparable. The department of reports makes it difficult, or makes it impossible for the House to evaluate the activities of the council. There is general agreement on the merger of reports in the House, as the debate on the Czech Television Management Report for 2013 also showed. The merger of reports also includes the substantive intention of a major amendment to the television bill prepared by the Ministry of Culture. The Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio and the CEO of Czech Television also support the merger. The amendment is presented as a parliamentary proposal only because the legislative work of the Ministry of Culture will not be completed in time so that clearly beneficial changes can apply from 2016. Well, do you know who was the author of this proposal? He was our Member, Mr Martin Komárek, then President of the Election Committee. But, and this is interesting, we will also find under this proposal the signature of the current Prime Minister Petr Fiala, the current Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Defence Jana Černochová, Minister Helena Langšádlová, President of the Chamber of Deputies Dagmar Pekarová Adamová, MP Pavla Golasowská, Member of Vít Kaňkovský - a total of 50 Members have signed this proposal. So I'd like to intercede for a big amendment or a new law on public media. For many reasons, I've already talked about some. At the time of the creation of the law, we did not have a two-chamber parliament which, however, would also address their financing. I would like the first part of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act to describe the content of the public service referred to here by Mr Lacina, and its scope, and the second part of the way in which this service is financed. An example can be Finland, Great Britain, Scandinavia. This seems fair to me to citizens in the role of viewers, listeners and thus the payers of licence fees so that they really have control. And I reject this novel because I think it's obviously purposeful. I do not think that we should increase the number of members of the Czech Television Council on purpose, but in general any body in order to background and reduce the influence of previously elected members. In my opinion, such practices have nothing to do with democracy, constitutionality and political culture. Thank you for your precious attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u184	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read the apologies. Today, at 20 o'clock, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura apologizes for medical reasons. Mrs Karla Maříková will now speak. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u185	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, when thanks to the government of the five-calice under the leadership of Petr Fiala, citizens solve existential problems, many are wondering whether to pay for overpriced energy or overpriced food, this government has called an extraordinary meeting to address this issue rather than address the existential problems of Czech citizens and Czech companies. She has called an extraordinary meeting for today for an amendment to the law to control public opinion and detract from freedom of speech and speech, and thus has once again shown her power appetites and to have complete control of Czech Television and Czech Radio. [[effort?]] Here we see what is the priority of this government. The very existence of Czech television is socially absolutely essential and necessary. It serves to meet the cultural, social and social needs of society. Public service media, as the Ministry of Culture itself states, are considered to be part of modern society in developed countries. As a problem, I perceive the financing of Czech television, which is completely opaque. Here I would mention - why do moderators like Václav Moravec and Nora Fridrichová still fear the publication of their salaries and the Czech Television is hiding them? Why, if they're being paid out of public funds? Are they more like us constitutional officials whose salaries are public? Or do you agree with the Director General's words that the company is not prepared to publish the salaries of prominent employees? Doesn't 3.5 million concessionaires have the right to know where more than seven billion are going to be charged? The intelligence style is usually biased and biased. Even so, some of you still defend them. The objective of public television is to provide objective information, at least standard behavior of editors, moderators and other employees of Czech Television and their impartial and balanced approach in all possible issues addressed in the context of human life. Paradoxically the biggest handicap of Czech television has long been found in the field of publicity and intelligence. The true culprit is responsible and also very above-standard top management, which is out of control. For example, the Alliance for Family has also published its experience with the objectivity of broadcasting public television. I quote: In November 2020, we lodged a complaint with the Czech Television Council on the non-objectivity of Czech Television in informing about two laws that lie in the Chamber of Deputies. One wants to legalize homosexual marriages, and the other requires constitutional protection of marriage as a bond between a man and a woman. There have been petitions in support of both proposals. Both had a public hearing in the Chamber of Deputies in autumn 2018 and this was devoted to one whole programme 90. At that time both petitions were collected only in paper form and both had tens of thousands of signatures. The petition for the constitutional definition of marriage began later, so at that time it had several thousand signatures less. Soon, however, she managed to cross the line of 100,000 signatures, and as organizers, we held a press conference. Czech television sent a transmission car there, said to be live, which eventually did not happen. The reasons were not communicated. To this day, the alliance does not know whether there has been any mention on Czech television that this petition has crossed the threshold of hundreds of thousands in paper signatures, which is very well known for being worth more than the Internet. There is no way to verify whether one person has any number of emails, which are then taken as signatures by more than one person. On various occasions, someone has always mentioned the movement for the legalization of homosexual marriages on Czech TV, unlike the efforts to constitutionally protect marriage. In November 2020, however, the report in the Events in the regions brought so unilateral and to sign the petition indirectly calling for a insertion that we lodged a complaint about bias in this respect. According to the law, Czech television must not favour one group of residents against another, which in this case has become completely shameless. We are therefore very pleased that the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council has given us the truth in this regard. At the same time, we filed another, very similar complaint. Czech television to our regret, because otherwise we respect and appreciate the service of the public media, re-entered it, this time in the main news on March 14, 2021 at 19:00, a report on homosexual marriages, where it once again mentioned only one petition and the main source for this report was once again just one lobbyist group. We have also received a message from many of our supporters, for which we are very grateful, because this also gives us the incentive to continue our efforts. [[20.20 hours]] The Czech Union of Freedom Warriors also has its experience. The president of this association Jana Bobošíková and Mayor Lidic Veronika Kellerová sent 7. 8. 2019 to the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council complaint about the violation of Czech Television's equilibrium and objectivity of broadcasts of 10. 6. 2019 and request for redress. On the 77th anniversary of the extermination of the village of Lidice, Czech television broadcasted by German Nazis under the programme Reporters ČT reportage in the evening of the tragedy. This report accuses the late human citizen Alžběta Doležalová of alleged insinuation and Lidice citizens of deliberate oblivion of this proven act. The complaint points out a breach of the principle of balance and objectivity of the full-day broadcast of Czech Television. Mrs Doležalová's conspiracy was repeatedly questioned by a number of historians, including archivist Vojtěch Šustek, researcher of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes of Jaroslav Čvančara or head of the Department of the Use and Registration of National Archives of the State Regional Archive in Prague Martin Sovák. In addition, historian Vojtěch Kyncl, who presented his history interpretation in the report, has not shown that Mikešová Mikešová was the first to record Štěpánka arrest. This entry was known at the latest since 2002, for example by historian Eduard Stehlík and Jaroslav Čvančar. The minutes of the gendarmerie station are no longer legally relevant and are historically considered to be questionable and untrustworthy. Czech television was these figures and these doubts were known. Yet the authors did not present them on the show and contributed to the relativization of German Nazi crime on the anniversary of the tragedy. The complaint therefore called for Czech Television to either correct those claims and subsequently to apologize, or to clearly and irrefutable evidence of Lidice's guilt, Mrs Doležalová, on the basis of several reliable and legally relevant sources in accordance with the principles of archive research. But also many politicians in the past expressed their reservations about the objectivity of Czech television. For example, he was President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman, who - and I quote - said: Public law television is not objective, it is unilateral, it is largely influenced by TOP 09 and I consider this to be a failure to comply with the public service and for the failure to comply with the relevant laws applicable to the public service. Jan Veleba, former Senator: Czech Television no longer fulfills its function, which results from the law. Jaroslav Zeman from ODS: I am not sure that Czech TV will ever be changed. Ondřej Benešík z KDU-ČSL: Personally, I have reservations about the work of some Czech TV workers. Martin Kolovratník z YES: The growing criticism of Czech television by media critics and from the general public cannot be perceived. A big topic for the board to discuss. For the House Media Committee, the need to ask strict questions and to look for solutions. Jana Černochová from ODS: Czech Television broadcast during the so-called I didn't watch the whole election night. In general, however, I have the feeling from the news about the last elections in America, not only in Czech Television, that commentators, reporters and analysts have spoken very often rather than objectively in line with their wishes and hopes that Trump will not be able to do so. As you can see, even now the objectivity of Czech television is sometimes on the scorpion. The House Press, which the five-calice government is presenting today, proposes that part of the members of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Councils should vote for the Senate in one third. The minimum number of votes required for the election or withdrawal of the Directors-General of the two public media should also be increased. The new law should narrow down the scope for designing candidates, which could no longer involve ordinary small civil societies, but only large ones with national competence. The councilmen will thus select de facto only large non-profits that have minimal contact with ordinary citizens, all with the sole aim that the five-calice government should have complete control over the public media. Who, and why, seeks to change the system of elections to public media control bodies, has commented on Parliamentary papers by media analyst Irena Ryšánková, who is talking about the impending standardization on Czech television and Czech Radio, which is being issued for democratization and suspiciously pushed forward in Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u186	Your other ten minutes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u187	In the event of a change of law, the government coalition in the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council could place completely inclined candidates, and it is said that the new CEO of Czech Television is already beginning to talk about it. According to media analyst Ryšánková, there is absolutely no need to accept a change of choice. She doesn't care what she should be dealing with. Yes, legislation concerning the public service media needs to be adapted to the declining de facto value of licence fees, which have been the same since 2008, regardless of inflation since then and the increasing public service tasks. The VAT refund on the charges of both public service media needs to be resolved. Today, these media are being punished for their goal is not profit, but service. And we also have to realize that at present he will bite off three crowns from the fees, perhaps more now, the Czech Post for the payment of SIPO. This is only for the delivery of fees to the Czech Radio 130 million and for the forwarding of the Czech Television another 300 million. This is a hidden subsidy to state-owned enterprises that contradict the rules of the European Union. So the new definition of those who are allowed to run for councilman is censorically discriminatory. And media analyst Ryšánková thinks it would be interesting to see how the Constitutional Court decides. The requirement that associations that may submit candidates exist for more than ten years is pointless. The change is that part of the councilmen would vote for the senators next time. This has so far been the domain of the Chamber of Deputies. It won't be more democratic, media analyst Ryšánková thinks. Unfortunately, the Senate does not show itself as much as a guarantee of democracy, but rather as a pressure chamber that tends to pour water. Honestly, I don't feel that at a time when the Senate didn't exist, this state would be less democratic. The President's mandate is 2.5 million citizens, and the Member's mandate is 50 000 citizens on average, but the senator can theoretically choose only a few hundred citizens. However, it is said that it can imagine more democratic ways of voting for public councils, such as the original party system itself, that is how the Radio and Television Council is chosen. He can imagine the percentage quotas for the opposition. At a time when the House and the Senate are in the same political colors, there is no democratisation, let alone the stabilization that Prime Minister Michal Klíma's advisor is passionately talking about. The media isn't in the heat, the TV crisis was already when he was the executive director of Economia. Unless, of course, it's more about standardisation. Well, who's the biggest promoter of this change? Most of all, Michal Klíma and the Fund advocated this change by the Prime Minister for Media and Disinformation, several multimillionaires, where Klíma previously worked. He obviously sees it as a demonstration of his own, perhaps future power. The threat to the independence of the public service media would be precisely through the adoption of this law sewn with a hot needle. According to media analyst Irena Ryšánková, there is no real control of public media. The councils are to be represented by different currents of opinion, not just one government, or the Supreme Prosecutors formulated by the current, i.e. also the currents of opinion to the government uncomfortable, i.e. the currents of opinion, which are the political opposition. If people of one allowed opinion are elected to the board, then the board's function is paralyzed because it is unable to decide on balance by voting. The TV quickly becomes a maid and stays long. Any future single-colored Czech Television Council will also select a new head of television, so it is really threatening that a single-colored councilman will choose a nice director, thereby really threatening the public service. Analyst Ryšánková adds that the current government coalition in the past period often sparked a strong storm that Babišův's government wanted to dominate Czech television, because MEPs elected people to its council with whom parties such as TOP 09, STAN or people disagreed. In doing so, it was merely a matter of adding advice, and now the government would choose the whole board. But the media is practically not interested in mass. Ladies and gentlemen, if we allow this amendment of the law to be politicized by the public media, by true democracy and freedom of speech, not by the pseudo-democracy that is promoted by the ruling five-calices, it will turn into a non-free speech and totalitarianism, where nonprofit organizations and current political guarantees will decide who will be able to perform on Czech Television and Czech Radio and what the audience and listener will be able to hear and see without anyone asking, even though they are the payers and consumers of this public service. [[20.30 hours]] Who else should have a greater right to comment on the composition of the leadership and the Board of Czech Television and Czech Radio than they do? But no one cares about their opinion. This proposed amendment is evident that Czech Television and Czech Radio are intended to influence public opinion and not to expand their horizons and create space for their free opinion. This medium will be tasked only with one opinion current, one that will allow current government coalitions and non-profit organizations. Discussions of different views on public matters, which are an integral part and an element of democracy, will disappear. If the audience, the listener pays the licence fees, he has the right to an objective view, and not just the right one, which the current government coalition is building according to the pattern of comrades - who is not with us, goes against us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u188	Thank you. A point of fact is made by Mr Foldyna and Mr Vladimír Zlínský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Maříková, you don't seem to realize that you're instigating citizens here... [[President: Through me, through me.]] Through Mr President. I'm sorry, I'm so rash. Excuse me. Sorry again. Through Mr President, Mrs Maříková, you here again encourage citizens to use your immunity with the microphone here to see the truth! You are once accused of inciting hatred, be glad we cleared you of the charge, and you dare to refer here to the fact that Czech television should be telling the truth that there is some censor that the government has set up. Mrs. Maříková, you're really taking advantage of the immunity institute because... [[President: And again through me, please.]] Through this President here. [[Fun in the hall.]] You really play, you mess with your future. See where this is going? Here the five-wheelers are trying to channel Czech TV to become a publicity and propaganda tool, and you're throwing a pitchfork into it! [[In an elevated voice.]] Remember, you can get on some kind of list of the disinformers, the deisolates soon. Do you know what they always call this place? You really are playing with things you don't even know yet, Mrs. Maříková. Please, lighten up in your expressions, because sometimes the truth hurts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u190	Thank you. I say only for the sake of order, whenever you address it, so through the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now, Mr Vladimír Zlínský and his two applications. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u191	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to follow up on the lady of the house, on her text. I have the disadvantage that many have already been said here, so I hope that what I will present here will at least be partially new and will bring a new perspective on the matter of the Czech Television Act. I'll start with a few questions I'll ask here. Is the independence of Czech television really threatened as a public media, if any? Is Czech television really independent of any influence and its focus is decided only by its management and employees and is it promoted here by their only correct worldview? I will try to answer in the following text, which I have built on the book of Professor Vlastimil Vondruška about freedom of thought. Otherwise, I recommend this book to you. Even in the time of the Internet and digital technologies and social networks, television broadcasting is the most powerful available force to influence or directly create public opinion in society, thereby promoting things that previously would have seemed unthinkable to us to be absurd and self-destructive. In particular, this medium is a major factor in democratic societies in which free and secret elections are currently taking place, although accompanied by serious doubts in some cases. Luckily, not with us. It turns out that their ability to influence public opinion has been alienated by many decades of these efforts and has achieved considerable perfection and has decided on the previous political events and the further direction of our society in a very fundamental way. Finally, this was confirmed by the outcome of the last parliamentary elections. On what is this magical ability of television media based? It is shown that by combining the word and moving image, it is achieved many times more effect in the effect on the subconscious, the thinking of viewers than in other media. In addition, television is found in every home and fills a lot of spectators' leisure time as a means of entertainment and relaxation. This gives viewers an idea of the outside world on the basis of information and news that translates these entertaining and educational programmes. Based on these characteristics, the television media has become not a sixth power, but in democratic social systems of today the first power with decisive influence on social and political events in our country and in the world. It could be said that it has transformed from a mere information medium into a media that it influences, or directly determines the further social direction of society and promotes the bearers of appropriate ideas and political views at the expense of those who are carriers of the inappropriate ones. How does the media create public opinion? According to the work of scientist Paul Felix Lazarsfeld, the media creates public opinion based on a model of a two-stage level of communication. The first step is that those who influence public opinion on the basis of an analysis of available information will create an accurate pattern of public opinion that will promote their interests. The public opinion thus created is then distributed by all media means available to them, so that it is accepted by as many people as possible, so that they think and act according to the intentions of the public opinion makers. While the media convince the audience that they are objectively aware of serious social problems, they actually present the problems that are important for achieving the above-mentioned objective. There are three types of public opinion agenda. One. Stabilizing, maintaining an existing social ideology, or status quo. It creates a sense of peace and security. Two. The Reformist, who promotes the required changes, for example, seeks to create a sense of responsibility for humanity and a sense of shame that we are lax to solve many problems that are essential to solving human survival problems as a whole or morale as such. This is focused mainly on the young generation. And as our present shows, it is indeed very successful in cooperation with our educational system. Three. Confrontational, used for information suppression of other opinions and attitudes. It gives people a sense of uncertainty and of the resulting opposition to the chosen entity, which is most often political or opinional of the promoted other, correct views. In real media practice, these types are interlaced in various proportions according to their needs. Surely we can convert it to the current reality in the Czech Republic. What kind of media manipulative media techniques do they use? I'll mention some of the most commonly used, maybe we'll also be able to include them in our media. One. Agenda settings, or agendaing. It was mentioned here, a thousand times repeated lies become the truth. This means that, at one point, mainstream media prepares a so-called bite or bait, and repeats this information over and over again, so that the citizens addressed do not perceive other, essential and essential social events. It creates a social awareness that the more there is repeated talk of something, the more a fundamental problem it is. [[20.40 hours]] Second, the spiral of silence. It is in this: whoever does not come with us is against us. In some collectives, where the progressive worldview prevails, so an individual who allows himself to have a different opinion is excluded from the collective, basically his professional or social exclusion occurs, so anyone who wants to maintain their employment and status or social status prefers to remain silent, even if they happen to think otherwise than everyone else. Thus, the media are able to exploit the fear of some people from social isolation and the loss of social and job positions, when constant information pressure indicates that some opinions are socially unbearable, alleged xenophobia, populism, rejection of climate alarmism, homophobia, and others, and thus spin this spiral of silence very effectively. As a result, my experts in biotechnology are not willing to speak at the parliamentary seminar on current advances in biotechnology. I have no doubt that the effective application of the above method is the reason for a certain part of them. Third, a method of media production of events. Media stories are deliberately created and staged to theatricalize to make the audience more impressive. The important thing is that the information given has an interesting story, and therefore the audience likes it and it doesn't matter how false and manipulative it describes reality. Fourth - I like this very much, this method - red herring, or overlap. In English, the expression red herring means originally smoked herring, figuratively false trace based on the story in which smoked herring pulled across the hunting ground had chased the dogs off the trail. Really, this means in the discussions that this is a diversion from the merit of things to the unrelated topic. It is therefore designed to divert attention from things that are not to be seen or forgotten as quickly as possible, by giving the audience another subject that is catchy, easy to grasp and understanding by the general public. Fifth method I called myself. The previous methods, I was based on technical literature, the fifth method is the method I called myself, I confess...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u192	Your other ten minutes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u193	It's a method of destroying a mole. Ignoring or dehonesting the bearers of informal or opposition views and possibly their ideas can force them to change their minds, or to stop spreading these ideas, or to become untrustworthy to the general public. I myself confess that I had a personal experience with this in the election debates as an inexperienced debater in these TV debates. Sixth method of labeling. A method of labeling terms that we all know well. These are the terms: the statement in question is false, incorrect, racist, homophobic, xenophobic, populist, disinformational, pro-Russian, pro-Chinese, scaring people, spreading the alarm message, spreading misinformation and others. I'm sure we'll see more soon, they're in production. The philosopher Joseph Paul Overton described the method of handling public opinion in open democratic societies. This manipulation was called Overtonův's windows in his honor. It describes the scheme of how the originally unacceptable social view is legalized through gradual steps and then anchored in the laws. The entire Overtonův window system requires the synergy of many parts of our social life and must function as a well-oiled machine. But the media are one of the most important parts of it, as they are essential for opening each of the six windows. Overton talks about six windows which are opened one by one in a time sequence, i.e. chronologically, and are called: unthinkable, radical, acceptable, reasonable, popular, given by law. The window unthinkable - the issue needs to be detabued. Several experts who no one knows will comment on the matter, stating that the issue exists and that it needs to be taken into account, although it is rather strange and difficult to grasp. That's how the media informs. Window two - radical. So far, she'll be joined by some radicals who show up in the tabloids. The mainstream media will take note of the issue and inform that radicals are reporting to the issue. Window acceptable. A broad scientific community is now taking part, which will study the issue scientifically and declare it scientifically verified and therefore acceptable, for example: snails change their sexes according to their needs. Furthermore, instead of radicals, enthusiasts, activists from non-governmental non-profit organizations and eventually mainstream journalists follow the media scene. Fourth window - reasonable. Scientific and, therefore, on this basis, the journalistic community recognises the benefits of the issue for the whole of society. Critics are referred to as social pests or another type of perverse person. Fifth - popular window. There is an artistic sphere that popularizes the issue in society with the media so much that any opponent is declared a disgraceful renegade from the right majority position. And the last window is missing - legal. Lawyers and politicians who codify the issue into the speech of the law so that it is indisputable and its critics silenced by the risk of the following punishment, with the full support of the media. It's done. Amen! Dear colleagues, doesn't the above description of public opinion creation seem somewhat familiar to you? Including other methods of media manipulation described above? If so, then you can understand why it is so important for our five-calice government to have in all directions the main television medium in our country, especially in the mirror the possible close social crisis and the current gradual onset of repression and restrictions on freedoms. So far, the idea group, which is mentally related to the mainstream media, is guaranteed to prevail in the struggle of ideas, and thus in the political struggle that generates the conflict of these ideas. Yes, this law wants to limit dependence on the Parliament of the Czech Republic, because political forces are still represented here, which can eradicate and disrupt the only right truth. In the Senate of the Czech Republic, these forces are currently only marginal. There can be no doubt that, with the full support of the European Union, the only correct progressive truth and ideology not only in the field of television and radio broadcasting, but also in the field of digital media, through the fight against misinformation, false news and hate speech, will continue to be a salami method. All the above facts are the reason why I cannot in any way support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u194	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology. Today, from 21 to midnight, Mr Josef Kott apologizes for medical reasons. Next, Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská is enrolled in the debate. Twice ten minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u195	Thank you. Mr President, honourable representatives of the Government, fellow Members, we are discussing an amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. I believe that our citizens, our entrepreneurs at this moment need to address vitally more important issues than who and how they will vote or appeal to the members of both councils, namely the Council of Czech Television and the Council of Czech Radio, whether or not the number of members will be increased, how the management of both public bodies will be monitored. But so be it. Next year, besides the presidential election, the election of the CEO of Czech Television will take place. That would be the reason for such a great rush and pressure to change this law? Will the CEO of Czech Television vote for the board in the current composition or the newly elected assembly? Is the increase in the number of councillors and the reduction of the kvora for the election of the director really a step towards depoliticizing the public media? We're convinced by the petitioner that we are. The number of members of the Czech Television Council is to increase from 15 to 18 and the election will be divided between the House, which will elect 12 members, and the Senate 6. The number of members of the Radio Council shall remain at 9. These will be elected in proportion to 6 - House and 3 - Senate. The government originally intended that, within three months of the entry into force of the amendment to the Act, the current members of both councils would end and the parliamentary chambers would in the meantime elect a new one. The Ministry of Justice called the cancellation of validly acquired mandates constitutionally uncomfortable. Therefore, the petitioners are now counting on existing councillors to work out their six-year mandates, and only their successors will be elected according to a new procedure. There should therefore not be a single political guarantee of the whole council, which would go completely against the reasons why a third of the council members are always elected after two years. But it is the first year of validity and effectiveness of the amendment of the law and the increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council and the reduction of the kvora. And I'm back to the question of why the House's haste and extraordinary meeting instead of discussing and seeking consensus across the political spectrum, when you don't do it because of the choice of director. Another change, according to the petitioner, should take place in the way candidates are nominated. Members of the Council are currently elected by Members from the candidates they submit - I quote - "organizations and associations representing cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological and national interests'. End of quote. Some say that this is really just a front for party candidates who are nominated by any purpose-based association. Now the government is presenting an amendment to the law, which should adjust the choice and further depoliticize according to the petitioner by the fact that the above associations must be operational for at least ten years. Is that really going to depoliticalize? After all, it was also the original meaning of why the above mentioned associations even came into the law. This happened in response to the TV crisis from the turn of 2000/2001. I consider this amendment problematic for several reasons. I believe that Czech Television does not properly fulfil its role, it does not offer the same proportional representation of representatives of political actors in its news programmes in the long term. Last year, for example, this was also mentioned in the annual report on the activities of Czech Television. Despite this bias, citizens are obliged to pay licence fees. There should certainly be a debate as to whether, even given current inflation, the charges for at least certain groups should not be completely abolished, although TV would like to raise the charges. I believe there is another way of financing while maintaining the independence of Czech Television or Czech Radio, which is currently the licence fee. We will certainly find examples in Europe. The obligation to pay the TV fee is therefore for all households and companies that own the television. The fact is that at this point when there is no other way of financing, thanks to our fees, Czech Television can be an independent public medium, or at least look like one. Shooting favorite shows, streaming almost without ads, at least that's how we're declared. The current fee for television broadcasting is CZK 135. If the number of farm households in the Czech Republic was between 2012 and 2015, somewhere between 4.2 and 4.3 million, this is the only number you will get to the Czech Television budget somewhere at the limit of 7 billion 5 million and we do not have to use the budget for it. I think it's a decent amount of money. Like every year, this spring the Golden Lemon Award was handed over from the Czech Film and Television Union, and this time it was received by Czech Television for what it planned to broadcast and in the result it broadcasts in this year - all the crime labs. The representative of the jury, Mr Just, explained why the prize was awarded as follows: The jury believes that public service television is not supposed to do what commercial channels give them for their own money, such as the soulless imitation of criminal shows. However, the dramatic outlook for 2022 is dominated by such series. Předlonský Most or the recent Guardian are illustrated examples of long-seen swallows, which unfortunately will not bring the new spring to Kavčí Mountains this year, completed the justification critics. The lemon is certainly healthy, although the acidic fruit. Similarly, criticism should be perceived, which notes, among other things, that the content of the creation of public television should be somewhat different from that of criminals. Thirdly, I do not understand the government's proposal why it wants to complicate the choice by also voting for the Senate members of the Czech Television Council, when it is not really clear how to vote in the House. Traditionally, and I repeat the word traditionally, there has always been a secret vote, but the current five-calice has not been able to negotiate for several months, so they had to introduce practices that we know from the previous regime and vote publicly. So the party leaders had to check on their MPs so that new members of the board would be elected at all. So it would be good to think about the fact that secretly choosing their council members is not even capable of the current five-wheeler in the House. Won't the same problem be in the Senate? It would also be nice to look at the role of the Senate in the Czech political system, but my previous speakers have already done so. And it is true that repetition is the mother of wisdom, but in my speech I will forgive this repetition. For these reasons, I therefore believe that this proposal does not bring anything useful and relevant, and the government coalition should agree with each other firmly next time on whom they want on the board, but there is clearly strong distrust among government Members. And that's why we're gonna change the law, fast and strong, we're gonna have a hundred and eight, so what's the big deal? At this point, I apologize to the Czech Radio for actually only paying attention to television in my performance. I can say that I, too, will support the motion to reject this amendment of the law, or at least I will support the return of the petitioner for revision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u196	Thank you. Your request for a return to processing, it's the third draft in the order, I've noticed. Let me ask you, you have another application. Can I cancel that, then? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Then there is the factual remark of Mr Radek Koten. Mr Martin Kolovratník, duly applied for. Subsequently, with priority rights, Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u197	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I remember here very well from the last term when the Czech Television Council was to be allowed to move around the clubs of the so-called demo block, which is basically copying today's five-calice, Mr. Director Dvořák. I also remember how this choice was sharpened. This means that five political parties, which are copying today's five-calices, took five times two hours off at the club meeting. This is just one of the next steps to be able to control Czech TV, i.e. in favour of the "democratic" parties. I think that in 1989 we fought here to ensure that plurality of opinion, that the currents of opinion be heard and discussed. What is now being introduced here is merely censorship, labeling, and basically mocking opinional opponents. I don't think it's good, and there's one thing that really convinces me. Yesterday, there was suicide in front of the Office of the Government, and public television didn't give it any room. It was at the time of the Czech Government's meeting in Ukraine. We can only speculate about the reasons, because the investigation is not completed. But I personally think that an embargo is being imposed on the investigation, and unfortunately, this unfortunate man has paid for this government's policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u198	Mr Kolovratník is therefore now registered. However, I do not see that he is present in the hall, which is why President Okamura comes with priority rights. Mr. Collo-kolovratník will be placed at the end of the enrollment so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u199	So, ladies and gentlemen, I've been watching this debate all morning, and all I can do is confirm my arguments this morning that the Petr Fiala government simply wants to politically control the public media authorities so that only pro-government views can be broadcast. As I say, we members of the SPD are simply promoting freedom and democracy and we want there to be a diversity of opinion in accordance with the Czech Television Act. We simply cannot agree that you want to politically control Czech Television and Czech Radio because your preferences are falling now and you want to ensure that pressure on Czech Television and Czech Radio is developed through the media councils. Because, of course, if you only allow your exponents there, there's political pressure on the public media to broadcast in line with that government line. The licence fees are simply paid by all citizens of the Czech Republic who have a receiver. This means that it is necessary, and I am actually convinced of this in the interests of democracy that Czech Television and Czech Radio should represent all major currents of opinion and editors and the leadership of the public media so that they are not under political pressure. It's just that you're going to sway the composition of these councils towards that five-calice government, so it's essentially going to make the media have to actually go to your hand, because, of course, management is going to have to reflect on the composition of the media councils. So, of course, it's not good for us. Of course, because I know the government's five coalitions, I know you, so I know that there are a number of MPs and a number of exponents who, if they can't achieve their political results based on political work, which you obviously can't do right now, because trust in the government coalition is really about 20 percent, so you're basically trying to take over the public media politically, to insure your power and to send out your opinions and hand in hand, so that, of course, politically persecuted and persecuted by the opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u200	I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down, especially in the right side of the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u201	I repeat once again that instead of Fiala the help Petr citizens and companies with astronomical upheaval, government parties want to insure their political power completely undemocraticly and authoritarianly. You're just trying to change the way these media councils are chosen so that you can basically concrete the exponents associated with Petr Fiala's five-police government for six years. And that's just not democratic. We all know how you plan it. Elections to the Chamber of Deputies clearly reflect, because they have the highest voter participation, they have a participation of around 60 percent, it is essentially an institution, an institution, an institution, a Chamber of Deputies, which clearly represents, from this point of view, the main currents of opinion, which are in Czech society. And you want to do that so that out of the 15 Councillors three, the Senate, where the government coalition has a majority, because even though the Senate has very low legitimacy in terms of electoral participation compared to the Chamber of Deputies, then the three Councillors will end next year, that is, three other exponents will be allowed to join the government coalition, which is six, and, of course, because the election of the director of Czech Television, which is scheduled for April, is about to happen, so of course, you will then allow the director, who will be there for you, whether it is the current or otherwise, and of course, for those six years, the public media will essentially be under pressure, because the councillors are clearly on the side of the government's five-wheeler. Although as far as the results of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies are concerned, most citizens have not voted for you in the previous elections, as we know, you have been voted by the circus 43 percent. What we are trying to do is that all the currents represented by the Czech Television and Czech Radio dealers are democratically represented and that there really is not enough pressure on Czech TV and that the Czech Television can actually reflect freely and democratically the currents that are in society. So that's actually the whole point of the thing. And it is the public media that is very important from our point of view for the democratic functioning of society. That is why, since the media are already here, they exist, and it is important now that it serves all the citizens of the Czech Republic and not just the government majority. So in this simple way, you actually want the composition of the media council very quickly within a few months to choose to go purely to the government majority. That's the point. So based on the explanation where we're trying to explain it to you from the opposition, it's obvious that the government MPs still don't understand. So we would take to give you some more space to think about, so we'll take a 30-minute break to start. The vice-chairman of our Radek Rozvoral, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will request this pause. We, too, at the SPD, of course... We want to give you the space to think about it. And, of course, in the meantime, we will also consult and also hold a political meeting. So I'm gonna ask the vice president of the club here to take a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u202	This is Mr. Vice-President Rozvoral. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u203	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So, for the reasons our chairman Tomio Okamura said, I'm asking you, given that we have to consult, to ask you for a 30-minute recess for a meeting of the SPD MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u204	Okay. I am now declaring a 30-minute break as stated. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u205	And I'll ask the SPD members to come to the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u206	Yeah, so the break's until 9:39 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u207	It is 21.39, and therefore the break at the SPD meeting expired. Now I'm going to read some more apologies. Mrs Renata Oulehlová apologizes from 20 o'clock for family reasons, Mr Lukáš Vlček within 23 o'clock for work reasons. I remind you that we are still in the debate. However, I am not registering anyone else for the debate that has already been entered at this time, so... President Okamura is still reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman. You can, yes, no one else logged in. You're reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u208	Dear ladies and gentlemen, rocket-growing inflation has already touched almost 20 percent year-on-year. Prices of basic life needs are rising at a much faster pace, especially energy, food, and fuel prices. Housing costs are increasing rapidly, mortgage loans for the purchase of real estate are available only for persons with income above CZK 80,000 per month. The number of executions is increasing, including the execution of seniors. More and more working people are sinking below the poverty line. The situation gets worse every week. And what is Petr Fiala's government doing in this situation? What are the solutions? What's her recipe? What's her priority? [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Yes, you're guessing right. It is an amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, which amends the rules for the choice of councils supervising the activities of these media public services. You're asking what this has to do with electricity and gas prices and volatile inflation? That's the right question. Not at all, but it says a lot about the priorities of the government's five-calice, Petr Fiala. - Can I just ask for peace of mind?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u209	Yes. I will ask my colleague and colleagues, especially in the right part of the hall, to keep their calls quiet and move them to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u210	And because the government of Petr Fiala is not interested in citizens, the depreciation of their savings, the inaccessibility of housing, the economic problems of the country, the growing debt of the state and similar details - details for the government, but essential things for us in the SPD - the government comes up with a super-important, super-urgent proposal in quotes to override the rules of the choice of media councils. This means government priorities, as we see, are not addressing citizens' problems, but government priorities are controlling public media to secure power for six years in advance. Yes, it is indeed an urgent priority for the government and the government coalition of Petr Fiala. She's having a marked fall in trust. At least two, but more like three government parties wouldn't even make it to the House in the next election. And the prognosis of development is not good for them, on the contrary. So what remains for another government instead of working for better citizens' lives? Which the government is not capable of, as we can see, so the government coalition is trying to quickly dominate public media, whose public confidence is falling sharply, by the way. Because the fact that five coalitions control public media news and publicity is her last weapon in the political struggle and the last theoretical hope that in the next election of the government party, the government's five coalition, they will not be beaten up. That is why the government coalition of Petr Fiala is trying to insure this matter. They try to insure that they can influence the broadcasts on Czech Television and on Czech Radio. Here it must be stressed once again that this media is sending out at licence fees paid by voters of all parties and oppositions, but you are not interested in that at all and you are trying to insure the influence on public media even at the cost of wanting to change the rules of the game in its course and you will find yourself several times for your short but extremely harmful history for our country, at the edge of the constitution. In this context, we must recall recent excesses with the public election of the Czech Television Council. In this way, the leaders of government parties have pushed unprecedentedly against their own MPs to elect pre-selected loyal government councillors. And there were several members of the government who wanted to oppose it. They didn't want to succumb to the dictation. That is why the government coalition of Petr Fiala here must have voted on the North Korean model, when you had to vote in a public election, so that the management of the group could check on their MPs, whether they really all vote on the party dictatorship. So it really was the first signal you've taken on political power here, you've voted, you've elected politically loyal councillors to the Czech Television Council. And you trampled on one of the fundamental pillars of free and democratic systems, free and democratic governments. This means freedom of choice, which is fully guaranteed only if it takes place in a secret way, in which each voter, and it is indifferent whether he is a citizen or a Member, votes secretly. In my conscience. No outside pressure. By the way, the government's five-calice Petr Fiala is planning the same thing in a big way for elections to the House, for the next elections to the House, by pushing through a new electoral law that would introduce correspondence voting into the Czech rule of law. The correspondence vote, which makes the secrecy and freedom of choice impossible, gives enormous room for all kinds of electoral fraud and manipulation and undermines the elections as such and citizens' confidence in their results. And let us also remind you that you originally wanted, as the government coalition of Petr Fiala, the five-calice Petr Fiala, as the plaintiff of this law, to dominate the media councils, namely the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa of the ODS, so you wanted to end the mandates of all members of the two public media councils, namely the Council of Czech Television and the Council of the Czech Radio, and you wanted to end their mandates, regardless of when they were elected, and regardless of the fact that they were all elected under applicable laws for six years. And you just wanted to completely totalitarianly and dictatorically elect the full cast of these councils according to the government's assignment and selection. That's the way the government's five-calice Petr Fiala acts. So far, Minister Baax and Prime Minister Petr Fial and the government coalition of Petr Fiala have failed because people around the government's five-calice have already warned about this. They warned me it was too much. That it is indeed at odds with the broadest democratic boundaries that you really wanted to do here. You wanted to do a normal totalitarian coup in public media. [[21.50 hours]] But it is still the government's proposal, which you want to control the public media, a completely purposeful material from which, as a famous straw of shoes, the unbridled and poorly hidden desire to conquer and control both large public media, the Czech Television and the Czech Radio, even at the cost of trampling public rights, such as association law, which is also constitutional law and which should be universal. This right tells us that citizens can freely associate with different associations, organizations, not only political parties, and in various ways influence and participate in public life if they comply with the constitution and laws. In doing so, citizens are to have absolutely equal conditions for the exercise of this right. And the government here suddenly comes up with a restriction that candidates for public media councils will be able to propose only organizations, legal entities that exist for at least ten years, that is, those that were here before opposition parties were formed, which were here before the emergence of new currents of opinion in society, which just disagreed with the current policy of the five-police government Petr Fiala. What's that supposed to mean? Citizens and associations, such as various social charitable organizations, but also sports associations or universities, which exist for eight or nine years and have had a respectable job, are they inferior? That's terrible. Is that how government values decent and active citizens in quotes? But a senator who will serve for a month and who has been voted for, for example, 5 percent of the eligible voters in his constituency, can the television and radio councillor vote? Here's the disproportion. This is the equality of citizens before the law in the submission of a government coalition or inequality. Shame on you! In this context, let us remember that, in the political, ideological and media backgrounds of the five-police parties, the idea has long been that only so-called interest organisations, not elected representatives of the people and real representatives of the public, i.e. Members, will vote in future for media councils of television and radio. Choose, not just nominate and design. They call it a German model. And they say that only some, the right ones, the pre-selected social and non-profit organizations should have access to these councilmen's elections next time. According to government ideas, there would be various restrictions, probably not only in terms of the length of their existence, as is the current proposal, but perhaps also qualifying assumptions, because even this has already been seriously reflected in the debates on the choice of these media councils. And looking at Petr Fiala's five-police government, I wouldn't be surprised if, in time, there were any limitations on the political and opinional orientation of these organizations. This means only those organizations that go in your direction, liberal democracy, progressive direction, pro-brussels direction, so those should be the ones that should be proposed. I wouldn't blame it at all, because you basically have been in government all year, so you want to gradually introduce censorship, restricting citizens' opinions, bullying, controlling opinions that are contrary to government opinion. After all, this is the material prepared by the Interior Minister Austrian at the Ministry of Interior of the STAN movement. And that, of course, is unacceptable. In short, you want to make a careful selection - and this is an ugly word here - a careful selection of citizens and their opinions you want to do just to achieve your intended goals. You just want to dominate, and that's the goal here in the case of this law, that you want to dominate the political part of broadcasting public media. By the way, completely in the spirit of the passwords on the banners of the so-called TV sleeper revolutionaries, editors and associated politicians from 2000 and 2001, when they have illegally acquired television and still regard it as their own. But the problem is, again I remind you that this broadcast is paid by all citizens of the Czech Republic who have a receiver in the form of licence fees. At that time these activists from Czech Television had on their banners, among other things, an inscription "Czech TV is ours." But she's not theirs. Czech Television is citizens of the Czech Republic who pay licence fees. If the current government were not hypocritical, it can extend the banner with the same inscription here in the government benches of the Chamber of Deputies. I say this: Czech Television and Czech Radio are financed by all citizens of the Czech Republic, no matter what political views they currently have. So these institutions belong to them. And in conclusion, I would like to tell you one thing from my point of view. You know, I started out as a completely anonymous person that no one knew. And I thought it worked the way that most of the naive strangers who are here, most of the MPs, think, maybe if you control the public media like this, you're hoping to get your hands on it. You're hoping, because you're behind the government's five-calice, they'll turn a blind eye when something happens to you when you have a problem. You hope in vain. You hope naively. I'm in the media, my first broadcast on Czech TV was 27 years ago in February 1995. And I can tell you that I thought a lot of things too. But this isn't gonna help you. They won't be able to touch your hand. You're giving them... Indeed, this law is completely beyond any standard democratic procedure, beyond any basic democratic rules that we have been talking about all day. The media, because this law, when it passes, every one of you, even if you haven't done anything at all, only if you dislike it, they'll point you out, and you'll see what happens. So it's gonna save you anyway in the finals, the same as any of you MPs who think it's gonna protect your party somehow, that it's gonna save you somehow, that you might be telling them in the media, but I voted for you, I mean, I was the one who thought I was on your side, which is why you should give it back to me, which is why you shouldn't be mean to me... You hope in vain! It's a naive idea. The naive idea of people who haven't had years of experience with the media and who don't know how the public service media really works, that is, I'm talking about Czech Television and Czech Radio, you don't know how it really works there. It'll turn on you in one second. In one second. And nothing like... and all these arguments... This thing you're going to vote on today, and we're going to vote on it, so it's not going to save you from anything. This is another problem for freedom and democracy in the Czech Republic, because the only thing that public service media can keep in some boundaries is democracy. That's when the rules work democratically. That's when we strictly ensure that the media really represents the mainstream. It is precisely when we are really careful to follow the diction of the law that tells them balance. But the fact that this bill would do this, naively you think you're going to take it in your own direction, I'm telling you, and many of you are going to go through this term, and I don't want you to, but it's going to be that the media is going to take you and they won't care. You're showing your weakness, and they're gonna know you're weak, and they're gonna give it to you, with everything. Only because you dislike someone in your own political party, and many of you will recognize this term, so they will throw you overboard. They own it, even the media. Because you'll be worthless already, others will be pushing for your place, where those who are above you will point out. And you won't even know it. You're just gonna walk around begging to be on the list, but there's gonna be other people pushing. So I'm just saying, I've been through a lot from the media. It's a bad law. Totally trying to control something, completely bend democracy and freedom, it doesn't pay off. Therefore, once again, I call for you to at least at second reading, to consider your proposal to have a truly democratic debate with the opposition parties, and to at least... You've got a hundred and eight here, but it's still not gonna help you in the finals. So I say again, I appeal to it, let's make sure that the institution is truly democratic, without any pressure like that, because then it's hard to come back. And then, except for those candidates, you're just not gonna be there when they come after you when they chase you down the street... I say again, I've seen a lot of people like that here, a lot of people who then said and basically went out crying - why are they after me? Why? I was on their side. A naive fantasy. Then it'll be irreversible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u211	With priority rights for the ANO club, Mr Juchelka has rejoined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for the opening round of applause. [[Laughter.]] Friends, we have here... [[Let's hear it.]] I'll be short, I promise. We have here an amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act (?). [[About the Council of the ……]] We've told each other everything, but it's just as simple as we have those different ponds, values and principles, so we're not really gonna meet in that, just like we used to call ourselves here, as Minister Baxa and I did. So, if I sum it up: there's no way we want to control the public service media, we're just gonna choose five councillors of acclamation here to look after each other. We do not want to dominate the public service media in any way, only twice the electoral committee will not approve the annual reports on the activities of Czech Television. There's no way we want to control the media's public service, but we're putting a small amendment to the Czech Television Act that doesn't talk about anything else. We will not, we will never want to dominate the public service media, but we will determine, despite the electoral committee of our own rapporteur, that we can control all of this and that the government coalition will not happen to have the right to do more than that. There's no way we want to control the public service media, no, not at all, that's why we have an emergency meeting with the Chamber of Deputies today. Everything is crystal clear, absolutely great, we just want to increase the number of aldermen from 15 to 18, reduce the two-thirds total majority. Why? Well, because, of course, we don't want to control the public service media. And why all this? [[Let's hear it.]] To choose the right CEO, which we can then control. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u213	I no longer see any further general debate entered into the general debate, so I am ending. I am now asking whether there is an interest in the final words of the petitioner. He is interested, so the Minister will speak, and then the rapporteur will also. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u214	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, we have had a very long debate and a final speech by Mr. Juchelka. And I confess, Mr. Ambassador, through Madam President, that I laughed too. I gotta say, hat off. Turns out we can't agree on this in those basic views. But one thing is what's the point of the novel itself, the other is that it's some sort of opening step to what's going to happen in the next reading. And, of course, to the fact that we have the ambition to continue the debate on media legislation. And as I have already indicated in the few previous speeches, although the government is primarily responsible for submitting these proposals, we are ready to continue discussing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u215	Thank you. Now, therefore, there is still an interest in the rapporteur's final speech. And I'm going to ask you to be quiet, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u216	Good evening. I think I deserve a piece of the final word in the 13 hours here on the bench. We're heading into a pretty historic moment. I don't know if this has happened in the past, but something relatively special is going to happen today. We are moving the first reading of the standard in which The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic relieves some of its powers in favour of the Senate of the Czech Republic. This morning I tied a tie that I received on some occasion from the President of the Senate, symbolically as some kind of expression of optimism, that it is heading in a good direction today. And since a lot of words have been said here, I will allow myself a very brief recapitulation of what we're voting on, what we're going to do. The members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council will be elected by both chambers of Parliament. Individual members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council will be responsible for their duties in the Chamber of Parliament which elected them. The number of members of the Czech Television Council will increase from 15 to 18, the number of members of the Czech Radio Council remains nine. The House will vote for two thirds of the Czech Television Council and Czech Radio, Senate One. This standard repeals the possibility of calling off the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council following the double approval of the annual report. Finally, the minimum duration of the existence of legal entities that can propose for ten years is set. Thank you and I ask for the approval of this standard, together with Minister Baxa, as a petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u217	Thank you for the final words. Before we proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled, I will draw up the last apology that is here. Mr Patrik Nacher apologises from 21:00 for work reasons. Several proposals were made in the debate to return the proposal to the applicant for completion, as well as the proposal to reject the proposal. I'm keeping an eye on everyone's checkout, so I'm putting you all out. I beg you to re-enlist with your ID cards. We will be the first to vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. This proposal was submitted by several Members, such as Mr Vondráček or Mr Novák. We all know what we're voting on. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of returning the proposal, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 16 registered 130 present, for 45 against, 83. The motion was denied. In addition, the motion to reject the proposal has been rejected. The motion was made by Mr Juchelka and was joined by Mr Rozvoral. I hereby initiate the vote to reject the motion tabled. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 17 130 registered, for 44 against 86 the proposal was also rejected. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Election Committee as a guarantee committee. I wonder if anyone is interested in submitting another motion on the commandment to the guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the electoral committee as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 18 registered 130 present for 126 against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the electoral committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I see Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Quiet colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u218	So good evening, with all due respect. These debates took place today, as well as the debates on the constitutionality of the change, if that is really possible, so I would also propose a constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u219	Yes. A proposal for a constitutional-legal committee has been made. Is there any other proposal for the next committee to be consulted? I see no one else to report with this proposal, which is why I am voting on the commandment of the Committee on Constitutional Law. I said, who's in? [[Who's against it?]] Voting number 19 was signed in 129 for 43 against 66. The motion was rejected, so we did not assign another committee. I see Mr Lochman with another proposal. Or to vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u220	I don't have a suggestion. Only in vote number 16, I voted against, but I've got a pro in high school. But I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-001-001.u221	Yes, that was for the vote. Therefore, I do not see anyone else signing up or proposing to the commandment of the committee, or to shorten or extend the time limits. I am therefore of the opinion that we have discussed the press, or item number 1, print 263, and I conclude the discussion of this point. Since there is no further item on today's agenda, I am ending this extraordinary meeting and I wish you all a good evening. I would like to remind you that the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies begins at 9 p.m. on Friday.
