ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 134/2016 Sb., public procurement, as amended /house print 249/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government for Digitalization and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u2	I thank you for the floor, Madam President, honourable Members, the Ministry of Regional Development has prepared an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. This is a broader revision of the 2016 Act, which is based on expert discussions. The proposed changes are supported by a broad professional public, such as the Association for Public Contracts. The draft law is in particular a response to the reasoned opinion of the European Commission on the lack of transposition of certain rules laid down in the award directives. These are two headings, namely the issue of establishing the estimated value of public contracts of a regular nature and the admissibility of oral communication within the framework of the procurement procedure. I must also state that the submission of this amendment is a continuation of the work carried out under the previous Government, and I am pleased that Mrs Dostálová is the rapporteur of this press. Unfortunately, the previous government failed to complete the legislative process, so we have the Czech Republic's implementation debt to the European Union, and we are already facing a infringement procedure called infringement. The reasoned opinion was already delivered to the Czech Republic in November 2019. That, too, is why I hope to have a smooth discussion of this proposal. The effectiveness of the bill is set at 1 January 2023. However, I am also prepared to support Mrs Dostálová's amendment, which has already been loaded into the system and proposes a shift in the effectiveness of the law, because I agree that it is appropriate that... actually provide room for familiarisation with the changes made. Let me briefly summarize the content of the amendment. Changes were included in the amendment proposal regarding... In particular, there are four areas. The first - specification of the transposition of the award directives, the estimated value of oral communication, the second area is the clarification of certain institutes and the clarification of rules, such as the provision and proof of security, the third area is the reduction of administrative burdens - in proceedings at the ÚOHS, contracting entities will be entitled to provide the Authority with access to public procurement documentation in existing electronic instruments, and in that area the fourth umbrella we have worked mainly on clarity and clarity of the text. There are no major changes in the regulation of supervision of compliance with the Public Procurement Act beyond what I have mentioned here. So much for the contents of the standard. I am aware that this is a very important regulation, but the proposed amendment is mostly a technical regulation of the existing Public Procurement Act. Overall, the amendment of procurement practices is expected, as such supported, I dare ask you for its support and I am ready to provide any further information or additions with my colleagues and colleagues. The proposal was discussed by the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as well as the Committee on Defence. In the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, four amendments were read, discussed more closely and then adopted, and then one amendment in the Committee on Defence. The proposed amendments do not pose a risk to the execution of procurement procedures or to any breach of obligations towards the European Union nor do they increase the administrative burden. I assume that you will be familiar with these amendments in more detail by the representatives of the various committees. I will, if necessary, comment on them in the next discussion. At the same time, I would like to comment on a topic that is quite important and resonates, and this is the subject of a possible increase in the limits for small-scale procurement. These are currently set at CZK 2 million without VAT for services and supplies and 6 million without VAT for construction work. We are discussing them - I would like to point out here that the discussion, given the long-term increase in the prices of construction works, is certainly justified. These limits remained unchanged for a relatively long time, although prices were increasing. On the other hand, this increase in limits concerns the national debate on transparency in public procurement and anti-corruption practices, not to mention that these limits have historically been set quite high in international comparison in the Czech Republic. I, for the Ministry of Regional Development, would prefer a systemic debate on those limits, also in relation to sublime public contracts. To be more specific, at this point, we are going to pursue and continue to pursue the process of the national strategy of public procurement in this area, and in this strategy, on the basis of key data, international comparisons and expert discussions, we will address the issues of what limits we see for the VZMR in relation to sublime public procurement, or how to find a balance between transparency and a strategic approach to public procurement. As the Ministry of Regional Development, we would therefore prefer to proceed to change only after we have the results available from this process, even if this is an active topic, and I assume that there may also be - or later - some suggestions in this regard. This is for me to begin with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Defence Committee also discussed this proposal in an initiative. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 249/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Klára Dostálová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as a guarantee committee, has dealt with this press 10. 10. 2022 and prepared a resolution delivered to Members as press 249/0. [[correct 249/2]] In addition, the Committee discussed its own initiative by the Defence Committee, which also discussed this press in addition to the required House and 5. 10. 2022 also delivered the resolution to Members as a press 249/1. [[the correct printing]] Otherwise, just to clarify: the first reading took place 6. 9. 2022 at the 35th meeting. Given that the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development - and here I would like to thank my colleague Haas, who represented me at the committee's meeting - is very extensive, it contains 20 points, so since you all have it at your disposal, I just want to make sure that it really needs to be read in detail here, the whole resolution, or if I can just sum up what is the subject of the resolution itself, because I think that you all have it at your disposal, and I would really like to read it here for a very long time, because the committee has reflected in this very resolution many amendments by the various Members and Members. [[16.50 hours]] In essence, the resolution itself has in its first point: 'Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve the amendments adopted'. Points 1 to 11 are essentially - or up to 12 - legislative technical adaptations. Perhaps I would focus your attention on points 13 to 18 relating to the competition authority, and there it is actually established when the initiative to initiate the procedure is brought out of the office of official authority that the Office, within a specific period of six months from the date on which the complaint was received, will state that it has initiated the procedure or that it has not found grounds for initiating the procedure ex officio. If the procedure cannot be completed within the time limit referred to in the first sentence, the Office shall inform the lodger of the complaint together with the statement of reasons and the investigation as such - a period of time is given there - of no more than 24 months. In addition, it shall be provided that the facts of the offence referred to in paragraph 1 are not fulfilled. Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (c) or (e) in connection with the award of more public contracts, so that the conduct of the contracting authority is a continuation of the offence, a fine of up to 10 per cent of the sum of the prices of all public contracts or up to CZK 20 million may be imposed for such continuation of the offence. Then it is probably important that Title II of Title III is inserted after Title II, which relates to proceedings against the Office's decision, and Section 272a is inserted, Special provisions on the file in the judicial proceedings, Section 272b, Special provisions on interim measures, and Section 272c, Special provisions on informing the Office of the action brought. Points 19 and 20 relate to the award of so-called subliminal public contracts and then to the overliminal, unless, of course, they are an overliminal contract for construction works or related to an overliminal contract, this applies in particular to projects of external development cooperation. It shall apply from 1 January 2018. 1 to date point 26 will be resounded in such a way as to allow... or to remove from the award of the association, a foundation dealing with work with children and youth, i.e., there are added letters o) and p). So much for the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Once again, I warn all Members, because it has not been read in detail here, the resolution that you have under item 249/0 in your materials. Another committee dealing with this press is the Defence Committee. This is in the material under number 249/1 and here it is also recommended to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the Government's bill amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, approved as amended by this amendment, when in Art. Article 1 of the current amendment point 202 reads: "In Part Nine, Title Four, including the heading, shall be deleted.' This is all the subject of an amendment to the Defence Committee. The Minister here has already quite detailed what the amendment to the Public Procurement Act relates to. I would really just point out that this is a response to the content of the reasoned opinion of the European Commission, which concerns the lack of transposition of certain rules laid down in the procurement directives, in particular in relation to the establishment of the estimated value of public contracts of a regular nature and the admissibility of oral negotiations in procurement procedures. It might be worth pointing out, as rapporteur, that certain institutes have also been clarified and certain rules have been clarified, which actually have a very positive effect on the law on public procurement and what many contracting authorities have complained about. For example, the submission of the original bank guarantee will no longer be required. Similarly, there will be a reduction in the exclusion of suppliers due to the failure to demonstrate the lodging of a security and it will be new to the contracting authority's decision whether or not to proceed to exclusion. On the basis of the proposed legislation, it will no longer be required that the selected supplier always submit original proof of his qualification. The contracting authority shall be entitled to decide whether originals or copies are required. There is a clarification of terminology in the simplified regime, and there is a clarification of the adjustment to show compliance with the conditions of participation of suppliers entering the established dynamic purchasing system. The Minister has already mentioned a reduction in the administrative burden, see for example that the contracting authority will be newly entitled to provide the Office for the Protection of Competition with access to procurement documents through a certified electronic tool. And then, last but not least, there is an extension of the rights of the parties to the procurement procedure. Contracting entities shall be allowed to request the contracting authority to provide information on tenders corresponding to numerically expressing evaluation criteria and data relevant for assessing the length of the contract period. Given that the press has indeed been discussed in detail in committee, I also recommend that it be forwarded to third reading and approval, as amended by the amendments, and I assume that some more will be read and justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u5	I also thank and now I ask the rapporteur of the Defence Committee, Mr Josef Flek, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u6	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, fellow Members, Ministers, I would like to refer you to Resolution 249/1, where the Government Bill amending Act No. 134/216 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, House Press No 249: "Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of Mr Mgr Josef Flek, Minister of Defence Mgr Jana Černochová, Deputy Head of the Housing and Public Investment Department MMR Mgr Gergelová Gergelová Šteigrová, D, Deputy Office for Competition Protection Mgr Pavel Herman, Deputy Director of the National Security Office JUDr. Zdeňka Jůzlová and the report by Mr Mgr Josef Flek and after the debate, first of all, the Defence Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the Government's bill amending Act No. 134/216 Sb., on public procurement, as amended, House press number 240, approved as amended by this amendment: 1 of the existing amendment point 202 shall read: "202. [[249?]] In Part 9, Title Four, including the heading, is deleted.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now opening up a general debate to which Mrs Olšáková joined first, and Mrs Pošarová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u8	Hello. Madam Vice-President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to present an amendment to the Government Bill amending Act No. 134/2016, on public procurement, as amended. [[Sb.]] It is an article where the following point 13 is inserted after point 12: "where, in Section 27, the amount of 2 million is replaced by 3 million and the amount of 6 million is replaced by 9 million'. This is an increase in the limit for small-scale public procurement, which is applied in the long term and is appropriate, particularly in light of decent economic developments, to be regarded as outdated. [[is or]] Nevertheless, it must be said that the main argument is that prices in construction are rising significantly, but also in other areas, which, combined with high inflation, means that existing regulation is indirectly becoming more restrictive. And, in my opinion, the law should respond in a flexible way to this fact. [[17,00 hours]] For comparison purposes, the last time the limits were raised in 2014, the limit for services and supplies from 1 million to 2 and for construction works from 3 million to 6. It should also be recalled that the limits laid down in the economically more favourable times were more stringent than what European legislation had called for, and it can be said from a distance that such strictness was not justified and caused considerable difficulties for contracting entities. Although the petitioner mentioned the limits here, Minister Ivan Bartoš, said that he was planning to devote himself to the limits in public procurement, that this would require a wider discussion, I still believe that, in view of the length of the legislative process and the legislative work plan, and taking into account precisely the inflation, it would be appropriate to adopt this amendment, that it would be more flexible and that it would be a simpler solution for this unsatisfactory situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u9	Thank you. I dare say hello to all of you. And the other person who is enrolled in the general debate is Mrs Pošarová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to comment on the proposal submitted by the House press, which concerns mostly legislative technical or formal nature, clarification and clarification... some provisions of the law are being clarified. No new rights and obligations are introduced by the amendment. The proposal implements changes that will lead to a reduction of administrative burden on both contracting entities and suppliers, eliminates the disproportionate strictness of certain rules, clarify interpretation uncertainties and, last but not least, also eliminates legislative technical shortcomings of the text of the law. This is not, therefore, a change in the award process, which is why we support this House's press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u11	Thank you. Another person who is entered in the general debate is Mrs Dostálová and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u12	Thank you. I'd like two things. The first is, therefore, that the Minister has already indicated that he would support the amendment, and that is, in view of the delays in the legislative process of the government proposal in question, to shift efficiency because it is set on 1 January 2023, and this seems unrealistic. I therefore propose a change in the effectiveness of the government proposal so that there is no retroactivity to the legislation, but at the same time that it becomes effective relatively early, as the proposal corrects the lack of transposition of European directives. For these reasons, it is necessary that the legislation in question becomes effective before 1 July 2023. The proposed new effectiveness is also ensured that the addressees of the legislation will have some time to get to know the new legislation. I therefore propose that this be the first day of the third calendar month following the date of its publication. It is then under number 1548, but then, of course, I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. The second thing I would very much like to mention, and I would like to respond here by your means, Mr President, to Mrs Olšáková. I understand that, of course, because I can imagine that mayors are coming forward because of inflation, that, of course, the limits of 2 million for services, 6 million for construction contracts as small-scale contracts are not enough. On the other hand, I really believe that this is not how the House should set limits, but that the Ministry of Regional Development should come up with it directly. The way we actually took turns here in these roles, we were preparing a so-called methodology for small-scale public procurement at the Ministry. After all, it would help even smaller contracting entities to finally be some methodical way of entering small orders. If the proposal put forward by Mrs Olšáková goes through, perhaps it would be worth adding, for example, an accompanying resolution, so that the MMR can actually complete the methodology and actually help small contracting entities in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u13	Thank you. Another enrollment was Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u14	Thank you for your word. I would like to add one more amendment, which was created in close cooperation with the Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Regional Development, who is in charge of, among other things, public procurement. He's been consulted with the UOHS, recorded in the system under number 1597, if I'm not mistaken. The amendment addresses a problem that has been troubling us for quite a long time, and that is a kind of distortion of state procurement, when the state, according to the current text, is always falling apart into individual ministries, but we are still talking about the same state. I will give an example of some greater responsibilities, for example, the state as a whole is responsible for managing the pandemic or the state as a whole is responsible for cyber security, and yet in these, say, postulates, which are unambiguous of their nature, we often find various bureaucratic obstacles. We have therefore decided to propose, and I can, if you have had the opportunity to follow into more detail a proposal, where in some cases, similar to the case of universities, where the university can be viewed as a whole, or the view of individual faculties, but also in other cases, the state can be treated as a whole. In common practice nothing will change, however, for example projects such as the fourth level of security of the state cloud could then compete in public tenders as a whole and then the competition cloud solution would, of course, be provided to all. We carried out an analysis with regard to existing legislation as well as European Union directives, when we came to the conclusion that the proposed amendments to the law are fully in line with the constitutional order of both the Czech Republic, international treaties and the law of the European Union. Of course, in detail, these steps are also discussed in the justification for the proposed amendments to this amendment. I would then join him in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u15	Thank you. President Michálek has yet to speak with priority, and Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová is reporting for a proper debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to introduce you to my amendment concerning the transfer of some of the obligations which are now in the conflict of interest law into the Public Procurement Act. It is those matters which concern public officials within the meaning of Section 2 (2) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the law on conflicts of interest, where the issue is regulated in this law today, and it is no longer proven because there are doubts that the law on public procurement refers to the fact that it provides for exceptions only to this law and not to a special law, so that it can create uncertainty as to how to apply the provisions of the special law. In order to remove this ambiguity, it is proposed to amend it and, at the same time, to strengthen transparency, in that the contracting authority will be able to exclude new tenderers who do not comply with the statutory obligation to publish financial statements, that is to say, there may be an increased risk that the firm does not have a credible long-term business in order to be able to meet the public procurement requirements. This is therefore my amendment and then my colleague Olšáková, my colleague Zuna and Šimek. Finally, I would like to respond to what Mrs Dostálová said, and I believe that I will please her - at the Ministry for Regional Development, the possibility of specifying the principles of award for small municipalities is being discussed, which could essentially subpar the methodology. We have now also discussed this at the Government Council on Combating Corruption, that it would be incorporated into an open governance partnership as a commitment by the Ministry of Regional Development, so that the transparency and predictability of public procurement would also be strengthened in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u17	Thank you. And the other person who applied was Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Mr Jiří Havránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u18	Written priority, so if it's for a colleague... [[Member Ravránek prefers.]] Thank you. Well, thank you for putting me on the spot. I would first of all have a question, because the Minister for Regional Development and the Vice Prime Minister for Digitalization did not come to the speaker's desk, he did not tell us anything about data boxes, so that we are here tomorrow to approve the establishment of a Digital Information Agency, which, in my opinion, is also very connected with the Public Procurement Act, and you all received today a letter from the Department of the Ministry of the Interior's trade union organization, because the Digital Information Agency will also have NAKIT, which is the State Enterprise of the Ministry of the Interior, and I would therefore like to ask him how the contracts that will be dealt with in the future will be dealt with by the Ministry of the Interior from 1 January, whether it will be able to enter directly into this state enterprise, which will pass, or how it will be done, because I think we are on very thin ice. And I believe that, as the Minister for Regional Development has just said here, there will be a violation of European law in this case, and a great fine can also be followed by the Czech Republic, so if - he would certainly have received the letter - the Minister for Regional Development. So what amazes me is that we're supposed to approve this place tomorrow, and the meeting isn't due until November 21st. Now I'm getting some information that he doesn't even have a local development minister for the union organization and the employees of the Ministry of the Interior who are supposed to cross over, so he doesn't have time for them, so he wants to reschedule the meeting a week later, so if I have the right information. But I don't think it's appropriate to write letters, and I don't understand why the Minister hasn't met with these people until now, and whether he would be so kind and explain to me how it will be dealt with when we are here tomorrow to approve the establishment of the Digital Information Agency at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u19	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u20	I'd react. I may not be able to deal with some parts of communication in my style, but I have not noticed that the DIA Act would deal with anything - anything - related to NAKIT. If there is a transfer of NAKIT, and the plan really is that it should happen in the middle of the year, it will become a government regulation and it has absolutely nothing to do with approved legislation. There is no line about NAKIT in the text. But I'll answer your question. The transfer within the future structure, and he was originally also the plan of the previous government, to merge CPSS and NAKIT into one organization that will provide services to the entire state or will be some sort of center of digitization in terms of performance, but it did not happen because of the case, there were more important tasks - Smart Quarantine and others, so we only raised the process where it ended. But there's nothing in the bill about NAKIT. It will eventually become a government decision by changing the founder, which is the most elegant way, and then the contracts remain. The question with the union guys, it's such a mess. I am perhaps - I do not know how often employees see more of their minister in office, I think it can be when he is in office, and then at the Christmas party - so I am with people who are concerned with this change, who work in that section under the main architecture or with those central registers, met twice in the territory of the Ministry, where I have been answering questions for three hours in real time about collective agreements, employee benefits, moving, whether it is one or changing, which I do not think would normally be the vice-premier or minister, whom - and was with me Vít Rakušan - the resort is not that he would do this. I'm writing to the union, I answered every letter publicly, you got it in e-mail boxes, however, when I asked to meet the author of the letters, who is represented or spoken for by the union at the Ministry of the Interior, I was denied the meeting. So only how on my level, even though this resort is not mine, in cooperation with Vít Rakušan, there were two three-hour meetings where employees could ask questions. At the same time, we have an anonymous - so that someone doesn't expose himself to, say, some concerns, that because he asks, he gets exterminated - we even have a place where questions can be collected anonymously, we keep answering them, and it also seems strange to me when the union chief writes letters to Members in some ministry instead of answering the phone and saying, Mr Bartoš, we have some problems here. So often, as they describe them, I would say that they are virtual or even refer to me meeting representatives of ČMKOS and KOS KOVO. So I did not notice that, in the event of an organizational change in terms of proceedings negotiated in this way, such a hype through media and public letters would have run at any time, but from the beginning I built the project inclusively, was attended by the relevant directors and representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, and I do not oppose the debate with union representatives, unless it leads to a goal and generates only things that have already been answered several times. And I'm glad that the proposal will be discussed tomorrow. This proposal has nothing to do with the Digital Information Agency, it is a proposal on public procurement, and I think that the problem that I have also described in reading my amendment is well known for a long time. When I looked at the exceptions that made it necessary to provide some services to directors such as health care in covid - which I described here, as it is sometimes narrow - while what is also in the Czech Republic within some structures and substructures, I mentioned the universities as common, and what is also quite common abroad seems to be a problem for us. And I can guarantee you that no Union law will come across this, because of course, we have verified and deeply discussed this, including with the UOHS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u21	Thank you. In fact, there's no one. There was one, but it's cancelled, so now, Mr. Havránek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u22	Thank you and have a lovely afternoon. I will speedily justify one amendment that I tabled to the system under number 1591. This amendment was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development and also in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. It basically consists of three parts. The first is to clarify the reference in Section 19 and concerns the estimated value of public contracts of a regular nature. It is basically a legislative technical regulation. As for the second part, this is somewhat more complicated, I would call it simplifying the qualification system. In the present text of the Act, it is assumed that the contracting authority is entitled to send a call for tenders by means of a qualification system in a restricted procedure or preliminary tenders in a negotiated procedure with the publication of all suppliers included in the qualification system. This national restriction makes sense in procurement procedures which take place exclusively under Part Four of the Public Procurement Act, as they can prevent the anticompetitive behaviour of suppliers in cases where, after qualification, contracting entities reduce the number of suppliers invited to tender and need to be sure that after the reduction of the number, there will be no merger of invited suppliers. However, in the case of the award of sectoral public procurement by means of a qualification system, there may be uncertainty as to whether this restriction under the general regulation in Part Four should also apply. However, such a restriction would be beyond the directive, as has already been said from me. And the third part, I'd call it regulation of mixed contracts. The proposal for this amendment concerns the provisions of Section 32 of the Act governing the procedure for the award of a mixed contract, and the aim of the proposal is to mitigate Czech legislation, which goes beyond the requirements of European legislation on so-called gold-plating in the area without justification. Thank you very much and I look forward to reading again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u23	Thank you and we are still in the general debate. The rapporteur shall be given priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u24	Thank you. Just very briefly about the in-house assignment, because of course, Mr. Secretary and I are exchanging information here. Please, there is no way in the Public Procurement Act, there is simply no way to determine it, because it would be contrary to the European directive, Art. 12. The only thing that could be identified in the DIA Act as a delegated institution which is entrusted with in-house procurement in certain areas. But that would be the Minister - I suggested it here, it would be best to return the DIA to the second reading tomorrow, load the necessary items that are there, and we'll just have to renegotiate it in some speedy terms, but otherwise you're not really gonna transfer the NAKIT with all this stuff until these things are fixed. That's just a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u25	Yes, thank you. We are still in the general debate. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u26	Many thanks to my colleague Klára Dostálová, because the Minister for Regional Development has practically not answered my question. I wanted the doubts that are mentioned in today's letter in the context of the award of the Ministry of the Interior, which is the founder or, respectively, set up this state enterprise, which is supposed to go under the DIA, so how it will be dealt with, if anyone realizes that then the infrastructure, critical, the Police of the Czech Republic, firefighters and so on, can be threatened and not be able to award these contracts through the in-house, and it can really come to the fact that the Czech Republic can get a big fine, because there will indeed be a violation of European law. So I certainly thank you for that explanation, because every time you learn something from one side, it is also the view of the other side, and the reaction from the other side, I must say that if I have read your second answer or the third answer to the letters from the Department of the Ministry of the Interior, where you wrote on the third letter that it would be good to meet on the subject, I am very surprised why you write it in the third letter, why in your own way you write it through Members and why it does not happen that you see each other. If there were two meetings, I have information that the Home Secretary wasn't at all those meetings, that he was only at one. I just can't help but notice that if you want and have digitalisation in your jurisdiction, take it under the Ministry of Regional Development. Change the law of competence, that's for the best. But you're not gonna do it just because you don't want to bring in that law of competence, and that's why you come up with the idea of creating an agency. Maybe you want to create it because 200 people are supposed to come in from the interior and 120 people are going to come in. And the reason - and let's drink pure wine - is that the 200 people will be under the service law and the 120 people will be under the labor code. And you know the difference between that? That people under the service law must have a university education and people under the employment code may not have a university education. And then I could ask the question: Will the President of the Digital Information Agency have a higher education or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u27	Thank you and we have two priority rights here. First the Minister, then Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u28	I see this place is starting to go into some kind of... First of all, we're not discussing the DIA law, we're discussing the Public Procurement Act. I'd like to go back to why I'm not answering you here... or I've answered the question, but why am I refusing to deal with any letters here that are not related to this press? And if I took any topic from the region, and now I'd put it here that I'm interested, I don't think it's entirely relevant either. Second thing. Well, I have a college degree, but I've met hundreds of people in my life who don't have that college and are far more competent in a number of fields than I am. In the field of digital competence, knowledge is a requirement for university education completely nonsenses. This is not a guarantee of any expertise in modern trends. We, when we talk about what was one of the fundamental problems of Czech education in history, I am 42, so I did not experience it completely, but it was a moment, the Czech Republic has few university-educated people. And what did the state do? He said, um, we have to make it better in some way, so we're going to put all the positions that are in the state administration, or those selected positions, we're going to put a demand for higher education in order to get these people to do college education. On this basis, a number of private schools were established and began to purchase higher education degrees for the speed of education, so formally everyone has a higher education. But when I look at the digital education numbers of civil servants, in many cases the numbers are not flattering. So in the field of modern technology, the 21st century knowledge society, the university diploma for the performance of a profession is absolutely essential, there are a number of doctors, there are a number of lawyers, there are engineers, architects, biotechnology, unnamed, but for a number of professions it is not at all relevant classification, especially in the area where these people actually work in modern collectives, and on the contrary it is limited if I have perfect candidates, even in the state administration of occupied posts, and only because at the moment they simply do not meet the requirement of higher education, even in a very specific field, which in the case of humanities studies in some cases are highly overlapping, and in fact I do not need to have this specialization. I need a good manager with a logical mindset, some sort of an overview through the humanities, and I can't get it because the demands are really limiting. I wouldn't really play this game in the direction of digitalisation, and I certainly wouldn't pretend that in the case of the Digital Information Agency, it's a handicap or that some people in the other category would do it, which, unfortunately, sounded a little bit to me. If I misunderstood the argument, excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u29	Thank you. Mr králíček, a Member, came forward with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u30	Mr President, colleagues, it is not possible for me to do so. So to the Digital Information Agency - and I agree with the Minister here, so well, I understand that there are good people who don't have college, and I don't have college either, so I understand that. What puzzles me is that in the National Sports Agency, where my colleague Babka made an amendment to at least drop the Master's degree, because even in the sports environment, there are plenty of experienced people who have spent their whole lives doing it, but they just won't find the application because they have to have a Master's degree. I'm sorry that Minister Bartoš wasn't as fierce with the National Sports Agency as he was with the DIA. So once in a while, a second in a different way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u31	Thank you, and your comment has raised a number of other factual points. The first is President Michálek, then President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. But I am so sorry, ladies and gentlemen, we have a program here, there are public contracts on this program. We started here with a union letter, then we went on to see who had what title, and we ended up with whether or not a footballer had a degree. In this way - and this is an appeal to everyone, from the government, from the opposition - we also have another point here, please keep the things that concern the Digitalization Agency, for tomorrow, tomorrow is on the Digitalization Agency, and now let's do some public contracts. The only thing that really concerned public procurement here was the question about NAKIT, which was completely legitimate, and NAKIT is just addressed by the amendment by Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, who read it in the general debate, I will read it in a detailed debate. So I will also ask the President, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, if there are speeches that do not concern the Public Procurement Act, to call the speakers to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u33	Yes, thank you. Did we have Mr Smetana registered before? He prefers a lady. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you're right that the Digital Information Agency is on the agenda tomorrow, but I still haven't received an answer that is linked to the establishment of a Digital Information Agency and public procurement. So I will try to quote, everyone has received the letter, but it is clearly written here: "We consider the link of transformation to the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which is now being discussed as the House press 249. The acquisition of the validity and effectiveness of this amendment must... pre-negotiated as House Press 287 to prevent, but with this it is assumed that there would have to be an amendment, where the former Minister for Regional Development has clearly said here that this cannot be done, that tomorrow we would have to give and return to the Digital Information Agency for second reading and fix it, because it will be a really huge problem and a huge cat dog. So from 1 January we're going to have a Digital Information Agency and a NAKIT that's supposed to go through, so here the Minister says it's gonna be a regulation, so I want him to explain it to us - I can read it all now, Minister. I hope you've read that - if this happens and the agency is set up and NAKIT goes under it - the Ministry of the Interior will not be able to award those contracts directly. So please answer me this. [[17.30 hours]] I understand that I'm sure I got knocked down, that then I started asking questions that I should be asking about, and I'm sure I'm gonna ask questions about them tomorrow. But let's face it, right now, DIA and NAKIT are the State Enterprise of the Ministry of the Interior, it's connected to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u35	Thank you. The Minister won't respond, so in this case, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would just like to justify the amendments that are read in the system under the number 1602 and 1605, which I will then sign up for. The reason for submitting these amendments is that they practically provide for an exemption from the obligation to award contracts in the procurement procedure for selected subsidy titles for so-called rate subsidies, where the rate is fixed per unit on the basis of calculations by the Institute of the Agricultural Economy and Information. This means that the applicant is paid a fixed amount, regardless of what price has been awarded by a public contract, and therefore there is no saving of funds if the competitive price is lower than the fixed price. The reason is also the administrative burden on the applicant's side, and virtually without any added value. In addition, the contracting authority within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty shall: It is only in the existing public procurement law and it is not in the Public Procurement Directive or in other European legislation governing the granting of subsidies under the common agricultural policy. The obligation is beyond us and practically makes it difficult for our farmers, or applicants, here this burden and Czech agriculture, compared with other European Union states, place them in a disadvantageous position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u37	Thank you and I just point out that we are still in the general debate. So I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? I see no one, so in this case I am ending the general debate. And I'm asking Mr. Vice Prime Minister if he's interested in the final word? The rapporteur? Neither do I. In that case, I am opening the debate in detail. Before that, I will read one more note: Mr Juchelka from 17.15 to the end of the day for working reasons. We are in a detailed debate and the following Members have taken the floor, and we will begin with Mrs Eliška Olšáková. I'm just pointing out to everyone that we have a fixed point at 6:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u38	Good evening again. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I justified in the general debate and which is loaded in the system under the number of House document 1579. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u39	Thank you. He also signed up with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u40	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, I am applying to the amendment, which is in the system and with a justification under the number of House document 1589. This is therefore the proposal concerning the transfer of a part of the conflict of interest law and the possibility of excluding suppliers who do not fulfil legal obligations in the field of disclosure of financial statements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u41	Thank you. The rapporteur is another one registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to sign up for the amendment under number 1548. It's about the shift in efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u43	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Karel Smetana.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u44	I would like to sign up for the amendments under the numbers 1602 and 1605. These are proposals by Karel Smetana, Michal Kučera, Petr Bendl, Tomáš Dubský, Jana Krutáková and Jiří Horák concerning the tariff subsidies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u45	Thank you. The Prime Minister is applying with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 1597.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u47	Thank you. Before Mr. Havránek comes, it's a short drawer. We're just agreed that at 6:00 p.m., there's a fixed point or even earlier. That means, I'm just reflecting now that we're going faster, so let's get ready to start earlier on the point that was at 18 the longest. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u48	Thank you. I hereby sign up for the amendment, which can be found in the system under number 1591. I've explained before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u49	Thank you, and another of the applicants is Mr Krejza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u50	Good evening, I hereby sign up for my amendment under number 1472, which regulates the demonstration of qualifications in defence and security contracts and simplifies and approaches EU regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-005-010.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else will speak in detail? I see no one, so this concludes a detailed debate. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, are you interested in the final word? No. The rapporteur? Neither do I. That concludes the second reading of this proposal. As I've already announced, we have another point here, and that's a point number.
