ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u1	1. Law amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, and other related laws /German press 1666/ - returned by the President of the Republic The President of the Republic's position, stating his opposition to this law, has been distributed to you as House press 166/7. First I ask the plaintiff, here was the Minister of Finance, and today Minister Válek will represent him if he wants to comment on the President's position? Minister, would you like to comment? It's not like that. Does the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Tom Philipp, want to comment on the President's position? Mr rapporteur, would you like to comment? It's not like that. I am opening up a debate and, given that I have recorded a debate on priority rights, I am asking whether I should proceed as priority rights have been given. So I see three priority rights here, the first is President Tomio Okamura, then Radim Fiala, and then I record the duly registered Mr Patrik Nacher, not with priority rights, but on a written application. Mr Marek and President Marek, Výborný and I ask whether Mr Marek Benda and President Marek, too, have declared themselves to be the third with priority rights. He doesn't check in. Okay. Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura will speak in an open debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here the law of the government of Petr Fiala of the ODS, which the Fialův Government wants to take away from health insurance companies CZK 14 billion and increase the availability of health care for our citizens and the working conditions of health professionals. The SPD strongly disagrees with this and we will vote against this law. Even now, people have been waiting months for specialized examinations, expensive medical supplements, and dental care is not available for many citizens. And the Fialův government, instead of improving the situation, makes it even worse on purpose. Only because the interests of the foreign country are first for you, not the Czech Republic. [[Constant noise.]] Can I just ask for some peace?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u3	Yes. I will ask you, colleagues, mostly in the right part of the hall, to transfer the discussion to the front hall, and there is peace for the speaker to have room. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u4	In our SPD we have the Czech Republic and Czech citizens first and that is the fundamental difference between you and us. All citizens are already starting to pay hard to Petr Fiala's incompetent and completely antisocial government. Within a few months, the government has put millions of our citizens in financial trouble, and Prime Minister Fiala refuses to address the situation and help people. The situation is dramatic and people are getting ready for the streets. People with disabilities also have problems because of the government. For crutches and other medical aids she will newly pay from her own, she reported this week to the media. Moreover, there is a risk of a lack of medical aid. People will pay extra for those aids that insurance companies have paid patients from health insurance so far because of the Fialův government. The patients are expecting tens of thousands of payments as well. Because of the Fialův government, new people are to pay extra thousands of crowns for walkers, tens of thousands for wheelchairs, hundreds of crowns for French crutches and so on. It's mostly wheelchairs in shock. The health insurance companies lend carts to them, but the law makes it clear, if the surcharge is higher than CZK 2 000, the insurance company can leave the cart to the invalid for his ownership, and he will lose the right to a free payment of the service for seven years. The enormous amount of repairs will be paid out of his pocket. People will not have the money to do this, and manufacturers warn that they are not paying off the production of medical supplies under such conditions and will soon be missing from the market. The real situation is that they are unable to supply medical equipment, said Petr Kotlík from the Association of Manufacturers and Suppliers of Medical Devices. [[Correct: Cot]] The solution is to change the law so that for each patient at least the basic aid is always free, and despite all this, the Purple Government wants to take CZK 14 billion from health insurance companies and make the situation of our citizens worse. Now, let's compare it with the Fialův government's approach to foreigners. For July alone, the government of Petr Fiala from ODS paid migrants from Ukraine in the Czech Republic, or, if you want refugees, at doses of nearly a billion crowns, exactly CZK 887 million for July. The Purple Ukrainian government helps Ukraine and Ukrajinec with billions each month, but it doesn't give a damn about Czech citizens. [[21.30 hours]] When will the government finally help our people to increase energy, food, and housing? Petr Fiala's arrogant and incompetent government doesn't give a damn about our citizens. Instead of helping our people, Prime Minister Petr Fiala from ODS sends our billions to Ukrajinec and Ukraine and wants to buy overpriced US fighters for 100 billion. Let us discuss the current situation in more detail. The state raised CZK 572 billion in taxes in the first half of this year. Year on year 19 percent more, exactly 89.8 billion crowns. Record money the state has earned for basically all taxes. For example, on value added tax, VAT, the state received CZK 252.1 billion in the first half, which is CZK 47 billion more year on year. The state raised CZK 128 billion on corporation tax, CZK 16,5 billion more year on year. For personal income taxes, revenues increased by 17 percent year on year to CZK 83.2 billion in the half-year. So we are in a situation where the state has record revenue. Petr Fiala's government, which refuses to help people and, on the contrary, pulls more and more money out of their pockets, excuses record debt. Yes, unfortunately, the debts are here, and all existing governments, whether the governments of the current five coalitions or the governments of other past coalitions, are responsible for them. The SPD movement is not responsible for this, because we have never been in government, and we have never voted in favour of the state budget in the past parliamentary term or in the past. Well, let's look back at the state situation and especially the current government of Petr Fiala. The missing money is provided by the state from the vast majority by issuing long-term and medium-term government bonds, which it sells in the form of auctions to selected commercial banks in the country. Part of the bonds, volume in the order of units of percent, the state also offers to citizens, and some bond issues have also been issued for foreign investors. What was the interest on these bonds? Last year, it was one percent. Later, the interest went up to two. Only recently did the Ministry of Finance start selling bonds with inflation indexing. What do I mean? While the state has record revenues, inflation is effectively reducing the real value of government debt. Inflation and the cost of the state, or government, earns incredible billions while reducing real debt without the government lifting a finger. In fact - I'm sorry - for that to be the case, the government can't lift a finger. He must not fight inflation, and he is unfortunately doing so. Moreover, the hundreds of billions that the Purple Government has, including, for example, ČEZ's profits, have effectively paid our citizens and companies. This money was not taken out of their pocket by Putin or China, but by the Czech government, Petr Fiala, who took up inflation as a tool to solve the problem with the state budget, by mercilessly collecting the money from the pockets of our citizens and companies. Health insurance companies have also become one of the aims of this government robbery. At a time when inflation is going to 20 percent, the government wants to take away a significant portion of their reserves. On the one hand, hundreds of billions of Purple's government is about to issue for arms. Let's understand, he's going to send more than 100 billion crowns out of the pockets of our companies and citizens at a time when millions of our citizens have no money for basic life needs. Yes, I'm talking about pensioners, disabled people, families with children, working people. Well, just all decent citizens of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, the government is stealing 14 billion crowns of our health care, making the availability of healthcare for our citizens and the working conditions of health workers worse. And you're still rationalizing it by saying that there's a disaster in the budget. Such shameless lying and misrepresenting facts by the government have not seen our public and the House for a long time. I have to think over some of the statements that somebody's lost their minds, or they're making fools of us. Finance Minister Stanjura from ODS walks the way he says that the fight against inflation is mainly the task of the central bank, which, in quotes, fights inflation by raising interest rates. However, higher interest will not affect record energy and fuel prices, which are the basis for the increase in prices of all goods and services. Higher interest also brings more expensive loans to firms for investment and operation, and more expensive loans for households for housing, as well as more expensive consumer loans. Yes, inflation can sometimes be caused by a lot of money and little goods among people. But this really isn't our case. Only an economic dilettante doesn't see that. Beer or bread are not more expensive because there are few loaf and many buyers, but simply because it is more expensive gas, electricity and diesel. No beggars, no charity is gonna lower people's prices. To claim that any contribution to children is anti-inflationary is an outrageous lie. Moreover, at a time when the government pulls hundreds of billions out of people's pockets, contributions that will be in the order of up to tens of billions in total will not really help. [[21.40 hours]] Now that the Fialův government is begging citizens and companies, it wants to rob the health sector as well. Public health. Without really being necessary. As with every insurance company, the fact that insurance companies have reserves is not only an obligation, but also an absolute necessity, because no one has any idea what health care will ever deal with and what costs it will require. We know with certainty that health costs will increase by at least 20 per cent of inflation. But it can be worse if the health complications caused by the covidal bans begin to occur. To sum up, the state has record revenues and inflation, which the government deliberately or intentionally fails to address, reduces its real value of debt, and yet it still wants to turn the health sector by CZK 14 billion that will be missing. Of course, Fialův's five-calice government is responsible for everything. So while the government is about to throw away CZK 100 billion for overpriced U.S. fighters, instead of modernising multiple cheaper Gripens, it extends to money that may be lacking in saving the health and lives of our citizens. That's not irresponsible anymore, that's a real crime. Here I must stress that citizens should hear this, that for all health problems that will be caused by worse availability of health care, delays or lack of aids, or even financial inaccessibility of aids, they bear, honourable citizens, full responsibility of the government of Petr Fiala in the composition of ODS, KDU-ČSL, STAN, TOP 09 and Pirates. Deterioration of the standard of living of our citizens, organized crime, corruption and mafia, this is the result of the coalition government of ODS, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates. So I'd like to sum up the SPD's position. We now have a law before us that the SPD has been trying to build since winter, and I am proud to claim it, because we do not agree that the government of Petr Fiala should take 14 billion health insurance companies and that the government will thus make the availability of health care for our citizens and the working conditions of health workers worse. So we fundamentally disagree with this law in the SPD movement and we will vote against this law, and the entire SPD member club will also comment on this law. We have a number of doctors in the MP's club, and so on, so we're gonna talk about it, and we're gonna try to do it again - because now is the last chance, because there's a president's veto, the last chance for the government coalition to realize it in some way, and so you don't vote for the president's veto, on the contrary, to hear the SPD's arguments so that you can... Please do not make health care worse for our citizens, because health care is already hard to reach for many citizens. And we in the SPD are fighting for the ordinary citizens. Perhaps one of you, of the five-wheelers, has the salary to pay for, of course, private equipment or some extra-standard care, but we're here to fight for the citizens, for the ordinary citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention. And that's the SPD position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. Another with priority rights is Mr Radim Fiala. [[Mr. Fiala says off the microphone he'll leave his seat, because he's going to the interview now, and then he'll sign up.]] Okay, so I'm gonna log your application with priority rights, and after you get back to the O.R., I'm gonna give you my word. So now I have two priority rights registered here, the first is President Marek Výborný with priority rights, the next with priority rights is Mr Marek Benda. No, so I see, Mr. Marek Výborný, so, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would like to take a procedural vote under Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure. 1 and 2 in order to reduce the debate on this point to 10 minutes and to allow each Member to speak no more than twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Since this is a procedural proposal, I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers and colleagues from the lobby... I'm also registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to unsign you all out... and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I will wait for the number of Members and Members to settle in the Chamber... Since the Members are still coming, I will wait for them to register with their cards. I shall repeat the proposal I shall put to the vote. It is a procedural proposal made by KDU-ČSL's chairman that we will reduce the discussion to 10 minutes and to a maximum of twice. I'll read the apologies. During the entire working day, Mr Andrej Babiš apologizes, then on 26. 8. 2022 between 22.00 and midnight until the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Karel Tureček. On 27. 8. 2022 due to the illness of Ms Renata Oulehlová, further to tomorrow's meeting, 27. 8. 2022, for personal reasons, Minister Síkela apologizes, on Friday 26. 8. 2022 from 21 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Oldřich Černý apologizes for health reasons, also 26. 8. 2022 between 21.00 and midnight until the end of the day, this is a written apology, Mr Černý, and from today's meeting from 24.00 and from tomorrow's day Vice-President Havlíček apologizes. When we gather in the hall, I want to ask for order when I vote on President Marek's procedural proposal to the Výborný, do we know what we are voting on? We know. [[Mr Brázdil is reporting for the floor.]] In that case, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, I am making a motion, or objecting to the procedure, to the President's approach. You were supposed to vote immediately, you were waiting, then you were loading. I don't know, is this immediate? Because I saw Mr. Marek the Výborný throwing leftovers of his food on the piano where it's written, so it doesn't go away because he didn't make it. [[A note from a group of Members in front of the benches.]] Well, I was there, so I know, go check it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u9	Please don't shout at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u10	Why are you yelling at me, you hear that? [[Laughs in the hall.]] Sir, Mr. výborný, you threw away your leftovers - I'm sorry, yes, you're right. [[The President shall speak: through the President.]] Through. Mr. Excellent, you threw your food away, you threw it on the piano. [[Cheer up in the hall.]] And now I'm making a procedural motion, or a motion for the President's procedure, which he didn't do immediately, but he was deliberately stalling because there weren't enough people here, so he's gonna bring it to me like... Then act the way it's supposed to be! I beg the vote that I object to the President's procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u11	Okay. I shall vote immediately without debate, stating that I have waited for the members of the opposition parties to get into the hall. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the opposition to the President's procedure? Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 74, 144 Members and Members registered, for proposal 51, against 90. This proposal was rejected. And I am now opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the procedural proposal, as President Marek the Výborný put it, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 75, 144 Members and Members registered, for proposal 90, against 52. This proposal has been approved. [[21.50 hours]] We will therefore continue now in the debate, when Mr Patrik Nacher is another duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Let's take him in. All the preferential rights have been exhausted, and now you have the floor. Please. [[Noise in the hall.]] And yet, colleagues, after all, I will ask you for a certain degree of collegiateness for those who will speak here to have room and peace for their speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[Noise doesn't stop.]] There is still not enough peace in the hall, especially in the right. First of all, on the right, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear government, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I had no idea that I was going to come forward this soon, that the priority rights would be so few, but the better, at least there will be more Members than there would be in an hour or two. There. You know that I always try to fulfill what I often talk about, and that is that politicians should be consistent in their attitudes, proposals, topics. And at this point, I would like to follow up on what actually took place on May 3rd, when we approved this government proposal here, that is, the House press 166, at first reading. And when you look at it and remember what happened on May 3rd, it's actually kind of déjà vu in relation to the current situation. If you look at the program we approved at the time, and on the other hand, the proposals that we came up with as opposition, it's basically what's going on here all day. You were then, and this was not the situation with energy prices and inflation and, as is the case today, yet you resigned to solving the specific topics and in the programme you have just proposed this proposal, that is, an amendment on insurance, then you had a proposal on supported sources of energy, but that was a formal matter, EET, you solved a conflict of interest, a proposal to end the state of the pandemic emergency, that was finally approved, and a Senate draft electoral law. While we have come up with proposals, and I am just saying this here from the point of view of consistency, and now we are going back in a difficult way here, we have already come up with proposals on May 3rd, such as the Value Added Tax Bill, where we talked about these things, about the reduction. That's what we're talking about today. We've come up with a law on supported energy sources. That's what you've decided to do since October 1st. It's all been designed here. As is the law on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. That means, basically, all the things that will happen sooner or later anyway, so that's what we suggested back then. You didn't approve, you swept it off our table, and you pushed yourself to the strength of what we're actually finishing right now, the process. It was a start then, it was the first reading - May 3rd. And I'm talking about it here because I already said basically what I'm going to say now, I'm just going to expand it by one aspect of the new one. Even then I said that the less CZK 14 billion for health insurance companies is actually the continuation of the State Budget Act. And you criticized the previous governments for approving the state budget with parameters that cannot be fulfilled at the moment, for which the law needs to be amended, among other things. You did the same thing yourself. That means you approved the state budget in March with a parameter that you might fill today on 26th, maybe tomorrow morning, I don't know, August 27th. So I want to ask, is that the change? How can you count on that money in the state budget if you don't know when you're gonna pass the law? And as it shifts, then you're loading up those amendments to really have the 14 billion parameters (?). And if you didn't make it by the end of August and it was approved in September, you wouldn't be able to make that $14 billion work. That's quite the basic thing, and you know I've been talking about it on May 3rd, I've talked about it repeatedly in all readings. Because it's basically for me - I'm not a paramedic, so I'm gonna leave this to my honored colleagues. But this is for me the continuation of basically law and debate on the state budget for this year. Even then, I said you'd have to change the parameters of the state budget anyway. And I did. You're also coming up with an amendment to the State Budget Act, and the changes will come up. And I've already said that the 14 billion less for state insured people at a time when you've also crossed out $5,8 billion for the Health Department, so together minus $20 billion, is when it's after the covid and when the covid can come back, it turns out that it's starting to come true in some way, it's after there's a refugee crisis and it's time to count on hundreds of thousands of new patients when I say it like that, which, of course, the original proposal didn't count on, and you remember that I told you that I didn't blame you because it's a new circumstance. What has changed in the meantime is that all those items that even the health institutions have to pay for are gradually becoming more expensive due to inflation. And that's the change thing. And I listed these three changes to you here at the time, that is to say, covid, claims relating to the Ukrainian refugees involved in this, and that is the price increase. And now there's a new one in the meantime, a new circumstance, and that's the extreme increase in energy prices. And you guarantee that hospitals will actually have at the end of the year all their energy costs when there's such a leap increase? In the beginning, when you came up with it as some kind of political vision, these things weren't there. But the situation is changing. You guys got yourself mixed up in this, that you just approved a budget with something that you didn't have approved here by law, that is. You were counting on the 14 billion you had to take somewhere else, and you have to change the law for it. But in the meantime, the change has happened. And I've been blaming you before that you don't give a damn about it. And now the situation is going on, which means that with these three parameters, this parameter is a new, extreme increase in energy prices, and yet you stubbornly want to take that 14 billion, cut it off, and actually the whole health system - and then we'll thank all the paramedics again after winter and so on. If Covid comes back, I hope he doesn't - we throw them into great uncertainty. So I'm asking, and I've already asked, repeatedly, the Finance Minister - he's not here - if there's no danger of what I asked the State Budget Act, that as things change, then you'll come up with an amendment proposal anyway. Well, if that's worth it. That you'll save the 14 billion in the state budget, here you'll take them, if necessary, when it comes to my words and the words of my colleagues, to put them back in there again. I would also like to ask consistently - I am glad that he is here - the honourable Minister of Health, what his opinion is on this matter. And you know I asked that in all my readings because that's what I'm interested in. I'm interested in the expert minister's opinion, because it's actually about the funds in his gesture, if I say so, even though the finance minister's been putting it here from the start. And I'd like to hear that from the Minister, because he's sitting here, how he's actually dealing with this blackout, and he actually has the opportunity to calm the citizens down on the microphone. [[2.00 hours]] Here's a ten-minute limit, it's getting short and it's over. So I'm going to repeat that maybe at the beginning a good idea from your point of view, how to save money in the state budget and fulfill the political promise in terms of the concept of the state budget, however, at that time so many circumstances have changed that the responsible government should reconsider for me and not build on it, I would almost say on that sacred cow, the moment that a number of things have changed here, and you say it yourself is extraordinary, so don't build on it, because then one day sooner or later it will catch up with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u13	And thank you for keeping the time, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a point of fact, the Minister is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for your questions. And I'm going to answer everyone because it's probably nonsense for me to answer in the process. I'm writing them down, even if I don't look like one, because I don't feel so good, I feel kind of sick. Plus, tomorrow, my only grandson has a christening that I'm obviously not going to make, but I've come to terms with that. First grandson. At least that's how I greet my wife and grandson. And, of course, at the end of the question, I will answer. Otherwise, thank you if I don't make it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mr Julius Špičák and Mr Kamal Farhan are now registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u16	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speaker is trying to be consistent, and I am traditionally trying to be specific. So we are sitting here in response to the fact that even the President shares the opinion of the opposition, the opinion of us, and that 14 billion is not a negligible item and that there is clearly a threat to the threat, and I will document this, a threat to availability and quality of care. Here I have to say that this is, of course, a mantra that we should think about, because we basically can't define it exactly, we can't describe it, and we're not trying to describe it, and I consider that one of the mistakes of the management of the resort. So otherwise, the 14 billion is, for example, two and a half years of funding for a big hospital like IKEM. Otherwise, in a macroeconomic sense, CZK 420 billion are now flowing into health care every year. So it's going to be 14 billion. Insurance reserves, as we know, are approximately 60 billion, but reserves are made to remain reserves, and there's 17% of inflation, which we just have to calculate. This 17% of inflation means that we need 480 billion for this year, and therefore the amount should be even higher for next year. There is an argument here, of course, that the plaintiffs of the standard that insurance companies have money, they have reserves that nothing is really happening. I spoke with a number of hospital directors, so I spoke with a number of insurance directors, with other stakeholders, with other opinion leaders. Everyone, of course, clings to anonymity, everyone is afraid to speak to the microphone, because they are, of course, executive addicts, and of course, the computer science I have from them is completely different from the one presented here. First of all, everyone counts feverishly, and everyone knows that this increase in energy in particular will have huge impacts, essentially, both direct and indirect. For your information, several numbers. In IKEM, energy spending increased by 60 per cent to CZK 90 million. In Ostrava hospital from CZK 15.5 million to CZK 51 million. For Motol hospitals, an increase from 180 to 380 million crowns is expected. Hospitals in the Central Bohemia Region have contracts for collection by the end of the year. There is a collective negotiation, but the regional councilman is completely apathetic, and there is no progress in this administration. What hasn't been discussed so far? Every hospital's budget plays a crucial role, and the biggest item is wages. It's 42 percent in IKEM. Trade unions would not be unions if there was no pressure to increase by 10 to 15 per cent, and this pressure could not be resisted. This means, for example, 250 million a year for IKEM. Another important part of the budget is drugs and recyclable, let's say, an instrumentarium where the increase will be slightly smaller, but will not be insignificant, and there are a number of other services, whose volume of services is not so large, but in their sum they are essentially moving again, the total is some 20 percent of the hospital turnover and it is simply not insignificant. These are, for example, laundry rooms, of course, heating and cybersecurity. The state should help effectively through management at this time of crisis, should create models, should create offers, should create the possibility of mass orders to reduce costs to the maximum, and this is not happening. What they don't talk about is food. So building a diet is not at all easy, essentially food, as we know, some have increased by 100 percent, so the average diet in hospitals, the price of a daily diet has increased by some, for example, in IKEM specifically, 13 percent, that is 2 percent of the budget. This is not insignificant again, so in the county hospital's budget it's, say, two or three million a year, in the IKEM budget it's millions, essentially tens of millions. It is clear that hospitals will have to save, the volume of investment will decrease, and at the end of this year most of them will be in a negative balance sheet. The number of performances will be reduced, the real income of employees will be threatened. It is worth mentioning here that health care expenditures under previous governments have increased dramatically and, compared to the outside world, our position has improved significantly in absolute terms of funding even relative to GDP. However, the pandemic has inevitably disrupted this development and, under the current proposal, there is a risk of a relapse. Unfortunately, in the incidence of civilization diseases, and here basically care is the most expensive, tumors, cardiovascular diseases, we are still at the top, because the occurrence of diseases, the so-called incidence, responds to all measures with delay. Even though the situation in the occurrence of colorectal cancer has changed incredibly over the last ten years due to effective prevention. So the result of the civilization diseases that we are very burdened with, which our country is heavily burdened with, is generally a relative shorter life span, a poorer quality of life especially in old age, and over and over again, the cause is mainly a lack of prevention, which is primarily costly, even if it ultimately pays off. What bothers me is that the reduction doesn't come out of any analysis, and there hasn't been an attempt at analysis. I have to mention the covideo pandemic. My previous speaker expressed a very optimistic notion that he would disappear, but she would simply not disappear, and its effective solution would require a flexible strategy based on precise analysis and current wave. I said, what's the vaccination strategy? What will be the availability of medications? What will be the testing strategy? I'll take the leash. Weirdly, testing for covid mortality isn't projected. It is remarkable how the same mortality is in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. We're really meant to be together. But the Slovák have run five times less tests than our republic. Saved. These are the data that our strategies must be based on. We don't have a consistent idea of vaccination. The fourth dose was recommended quickly, and then Professor Petráš wrote his article in which he wrote that essentially the fourth dose would have an effect of two months, and there was a careful re-evaluation. And here I would draw attention to the Israeli study, there are very few studies in terms of the fourth dose, where basically the conclusions of this study that, in the case of an omicron mutation, its contribution is not essential. Literally, the quote is marginal. So it can be concluded that in the future vaccination will be similar in nature and justification to influenza vaccination. And it will be similar eventually with protective aids. Well, I have to say, honestly, I don't really believe in the kind of casual wearing of respirators. [[22.10 hours]] Otherwise, I must say that we must perceive that the pandemic has shifted the whole world in the health of the population 20 years ago. Mortality for a heart attack increased by 5%. The number of cancer operations in the beginning fell by 29 million worldwide. There have been hundreds of oncological operations, thousands of major oncological examinations. It is quite clear that this puts the risk of diagnosis of advanced cancer diagnoses, where the treatment will be much more difficult. The number of suicides has increased, drug addiction, depression, alcoholism, deaths depending on alcoholism, children's mobility, network addiction, self-harm, obesity, movement, eating habits, life expectancy has decreased. It's not haunting, it's not my invention, it's the results of international studies that we have to respond to, and as a result, the reaction will cost something. I must say that, in essence, the very problematic course of pandemics throughout the world is essentially leading to reflections, and everywhere in the world, about restructuring the resort and services offered, and clearly puts an emphasis on prevention of all kinds. And it is not only an accent of early cancer seizures, but mainly the elimination of risk factors in general. Smoking, obesity, alcoholism. How is it possible that smoking in our country is threefold higher than smoking in New Zealand? The combination of alcoholism, smoking and obesity is at such a level in our country that covid mortality was in the top ten in global comparison, and these are unfortunately quite real numbers. I must say that this also has to do with the fact that the management of the resort is not staffed enough, the strategy is run by a non-professional whose management is about as authentic as if I were to manage digitalisation. [[Your time.]] Do I have ten minutes or two ten minutes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u17	You have twice ten minutes. So I just need to make a point that even though the application is one, the one who speaks can say that he wants to continue so he doesn't have to report again. If there is no conflict with this procedure, in which case I would proceed in this way. Please, you have another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr President. In a situation of endangering the basic functioning of the entire resort, it sounds like a bad joke to attempt to introduce an additional insurance which should allow above-average earning population access to better care. I will quote a colleague of Senator Kraus: Shorter performance dates with an offer of their implementation on weekends. It's like he didn't run a hospital. This activity would have to be declared as a service, followed by a mandatory staff rest. In other words, the chosen ones would be offered above-standard care on weekends, logically the staff would rest during the week and for the unelected part of the population the terms would be extended further. Only one can offer this, and let us be comforted, who doesn't really mean it. I submit that the relevant legal standard would have to be very complex, I must say, very politically difficult to pass, and I do not even see a working group that can take up this task. Another absolute absurdity is the table of temperature reduction in individual operations, which perhaps was written by the Marťan. The cooling in medical facilities by approximately four degrees is undoubtedly reflected in the deterioration of the health condition of both the sick and the staff. It will be reflected in a situation where, in the absence of a nurse's staff, they will leave, look for a more comfortable job, so they will go to a job where they have the opportunity to have home offices, and this will be reflected again in the functioning of the entire resort. Now I would briefly mention two agendas. The first is fulfilling a government statement. Where are the promises? Where's quality control? Where's DRG Restart? Where is the reform of teaching? Prevention? A red tape reduction? Research accent? What is the contribution of the new ministry to research? Medical research lacks a dedicated competent enthusiastic deputy. Faith can't be done without passion. There's no one to turn to, there's no motivational environment. The result is, and I can be absolutely specific, that current research results, for example in the case of covid, but unfortunately also in the field of oncology, are different from comparable countries such as Holland, Israel or Austria in order, and I can document this at any time. I know the databases, I can read the databases, unfortunately that's the case. I can remember the vision YES from the ancient period described in Country for the Future, and I am very sorry that there is no alternative vision of the current government. And the quality of management of the resort will not contribute to reducing the financing of the Ministry itself and its direct agenda. Our proposal was 24 billion, the reality is 18 billion, 17 billion for next year. The costs of IHIS and bed care are falling, and logically essential tasks contained in the government declaration will not be possible to implement, including appropriate prevention. And here I have to say that the expert group doesn't actually meet at all, and screening, like so many other things, basically personalizes the UHIS, which is definitely not adapted to that. And a sad story is the activity of the management of the resort within the Presidency in the European Union. I know what I'm talking about because I know the medical Europe well and I am perhaps the only Evropan in my field who has been president of both the European and the World Congress, and I have organized countless international conferences. So the Ministry organized an oncology conference in Brno, and I was really offended and I am sorry that I was not invited, even though I spend my whole life mediated oncology. Similarly, there was not a single opposition Member, but also oncological leaders, including the management of an expert society. I'm really sorry, it's pointless. The conference was usurpated by the IHIS, politically responsible for the management of the resort. As absurd as I see it, I don't see a professional program at all. If the elections turned out the way they were supposed to, and I had some share in these matters, then be assured that I would have organized an event that would have been spoken of by the whole of Europe, just as it was ten years ago when the European Member for Social Democracy, Pavel Poc, promoted this agenda in Parliament, and I was involved in the European Parliament at the time. To the beginning and to the essence of the matter. As I have already said, I miss the fact that any analysis is missing, any justification for this cut, which is therefore extremely possibly a blunt additive. It's an analogy like we're building a highway that ends up 20 kilometers shorter in a field, like we're buying weapons without ammunition. The overall unhappy situation described above can only partially and temporarily compensate for the high empathy, quality and deployment of health workers, who, however, will receive a real demotive to drastic decline in income for their deployment. Now I dare to predict. By the end of the year health care will run as well, because insurance companies and a large part of health facilities have reserves and purchases and contracts due to the quality health policy of the previous government. These will expire by the end of the year and from January, February will begin to care jumping down. The only way to do this is to change the budget immediately, and the management of the resort knows it well. It was said repeatedly that the budget, as it was designed, was a piece of paper. The functional measure that I propose to suggest is either the adjustment of the payment order or the increase in the payment for the state insured persons we are discussing today, but I believe that in this situation, the valuation formula should not be based on an average wage, because it has nothing to do with wages unlike the pension, but should therefore be based on inflation. I hope I have borne sufficient evidence to fully justify our rebuttal and definitive rejection of the proposed standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask for Mr Kamal Farhan's speech and Mrs Věra Adámková will prepare herself. To start with, I want to ask if you're gonna talk twice ten minutes. [[It's gonna be, like, 12. Yes, thank you.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u20	Mr President, Minister, Members of the Government, today we are witnessing the fifth episode of this, from my point of view, of an endless series which I do not fully understand. I do not understand the obstinacy of Petr Fiala's government trying to take 14 billion from Czech health care. I expect serious-faced ministers to convince us that the water flows uphill, that it does not flow downhill, that you will repeat that there is no money missing in health care. That if he had left the 14 billion, the health services wouldn't know more or less what to do with them. I must say that Minister Válek has been taken from Minister Stanjura, and Minister Stanjura will explain this surrender to the Ministry's health interests as exemplary team communication between two ministers in the government. And the Prime Minister will be more or less silent about it, which is his favorite tactic from my point of view. At the same time, it is said in the official documents sent simultaneously by the Ministry of Professor Válek to the government that he lacks CZK 1.7 billion for VAT on investments in health care. That if the government doesn't give them to him, the projects will fall. That these projects just won't take place. For moments, I feel like I'm in Joseph Heller's top seller Head XXII. In fact, there the main hero pretends to avoid some things, that he's crazy, that he's crazy. Unfortunately, nobody here is pretending, and they're serious. However, the Czech health services must feel as if they were part of the Bestseller Title XXII. The Chamber of Deputies will probably decide again today that it will take CZK 14 billion from Czech health care, which was intended for health care for citizens of the Czech Republic. According to the standards comparable to the more economically advanced countries of the European Union, Czech health services are underfunded. What can be read in statistics and economic comparisons is easily visible in the normal life of Czech health care, which lacks money for expensive medicines, early diagnosis of a number of diseases, as evidenced by the long waiting time for some examinations and some operations. The involvement of the 14 billion you are preparing to cut off to the Czech health care today could bring the necessary medicines for diabetes, cholesterol, osteoporosis, atopic dermatitis, allergies, migraines and many other diseases that hundreds of thousands of Czech patients are not getting to today. It would certainly help to improve their health, and it would certainly bring relief to them. Using the 14 billion you are preparing to cross out could also help reduce waiting times for examinations and operations, help with early diagnosis in a number of cases and basically save lives or ease suffering. The lack of money in health care can be seen most recently from the current negotiations between health and finance ministries themselves. The Ministry of Health requires the Ministry of Finance CZK 1.7 billion to finance VAT on investments of its subordinate hospitals from the National Recovery Plan. It follows from the Ministry of Health's materials that if the government does not pay VAT, projects cannot be implemented. It would not arise, for example, from the planned Center for Cardiovascular and Transplant Medicine in Brno - this is information to Brno - for 1.5 billion, and Prague's Motol Cancer Centre for 4.5 billion - this is information to director Ludvík do Motol. If there is no guarantee of financial coverage to cover VAT for pre-defined projects in the Ministry of Health and its directly managed organisations, these projects will not be possible due to a lack of - lack of - money on the part of applicants in the Czech health sector, despite the fact that the most important projects have started to take steps towards their successful implementation. The failure to meet the projects and the failure to spend EU funds will jeopardise the implementation of the entire implementation of the National Recovery Plan of 180 billion, as the milestones to which the Czech Republic has committed itself would not be met, says the Ministry of Health. What does the Treasury say? The Ministry of Finance responds as follows in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure of the Ministry of Health. This, when I read this answer, once again I felt like part of the novel Title XXII of Joseph Heller. I quote: It should be recalled that the government has already decided on a significant increase in state budget funds to the health sector by increasing the payment for state insured persons. In addition, they will receive these funds through reimbursements from health insurance companies also to the recipients of the National Recovery Programme subsidies and can use them at least in part for the VAT financial envelope. I don't quite understand it, if the Ministry of Finance answers this way, why does the Ministry of Health ask to receive 1.7 billion? Here I see a clear contradiction. And I don't understand why these two ministers didn't agree, because when I said in the last performance that when I think that Minister Válek should fight for health care and for the 14 billion, it was explained to me by Minister Stanjura that they were not fighting, but they agreed in the government. If we simplify the Ministry of Finance's reply to the common language, it would sound something like this: We will not give money, so hospitals will take it out of a bundle of funds that coalition MPs today are about to cut off by voting the President's veto. These citations I have said are commonly available in communication in the context of inter-ministerial proceedings. Moreover, the whole proposed and now apparently definitively approved valorisation mechanism, which is otherwise correct in principle, begins with a bit of a scam on health care. In addition to the fact that the government will collect 14 billion this year's health care, record inflation will not be included in the valuation of this year's record, so that the real value of the money invested in health care will be reduced even more. Only with a few years' distance will the valorisation mechanism start to work and bring money into the system that takes account of real inflation and economic developments. But it will come from a much lower base of calculation than Babišův's government brought health care. There's no point in listing all the examples of what all the money in health care is missing. I think that every reasonable Member must know for himself. The will of this government coalition to collect 14 billion health care is evidently adamant and ultimately, in my view. At the same time, its budgetary outlook is heading towards our country's greatest historical debt without real aid to citizens or health care with the consequences of inflation, the energy crisis. I see no fiscal consolidation of public budgets or idealistic intent. The government is steering us to break down public finances and, as a bonus, decided to let go of Czech patients and Czech health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Věra Adámková will now appear and Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words and a few perspectives on the current situation. We hear here that minus 14 billion means nothing to our health services. I have one question, please, and I want to explain it. If you have a budget at home and someone takes money from it, does that really mean he left you in the same situation as before? I don't want to talk about stealing, so I'm far away. No, you'd all laugh about it. Then why are you saying that if we take money from the budget, nothing will happen? That really doesn't make any sense. [[22.30 hours]] And then there was this argument today about the tens of billions in health insurance accounts. Well, I would like to tell you, fellow Members, that it is not a dizzying sum, and you know that there are rare diseases, unfortunately, where the treatment may cost many millions a year. So we would actually treat a few other people who might not be able to get the treatment. So everything needs to be seen from a few angles. Another thing that's here, if we don't mind having the budget cut, then I have to ask - which platform did you come from? We know that in literature we have one special platform that leads to a special space of favorites in our children, and then I would expect Harry Potter to be there, who swings a magic wand and says, "Never mind, we have less money, but we'll be able to treat more for it. It's not like that. And there's one more thing I have to say in person. I think we're lucky as the Republic that we have an expert at the head of the resort, and I almost think it's a waste of such a highly qualified person for these things that you force him to do. So I have to say that I am not going to talk about cardiovascular diseases today, which you might expect, but I will be particularly concerned with the difficulty of treating diabetes. This is because, according to all the predictions that are, it is one of the most growing prevalences in our population, and it is also necessary to address the need to treat these patients. So it's not a rare disease, it's a common disease, it's a first - contact doctor, and of course these people have to be treated. Let's take a look at the diabetics here. There is a sharp increase in diabetes and currently, the year 2022, is the assumption that 10 percent of our population will suffer from diabetes. We'll see when it's the end of the year, whether the prediction is correct, and unfortunately, I think it's probably right, because in this case, we're a very mature country. That's where we usually go about what we don't want. If we look at this, about 900,000 patients with diabetes are treated in the Czech Republic, we will not distinguish between different types, it is no lecture in this regard, and the average cost for this patient is really about 58,000 crowns per year. And I believe that, with 10% prevalence in the Czech population, there is really very much and we must think that we must also have to treat these patients. But in order not to completely avoid these complications, I have to say that these patients obviously have a number of complications, especially cardiovascular, vascular complications, and you know very well that these diabetics suffer from something called diabetic feet. There are specialized ambulances, specialized counseling, and then the treatment really goes to many hundreds of thousands of crowns a year. And unfortunately, there are many patients. So even here, we have a certain gap where we should increase this treatment, because these patients are not quite well cared for in our Republic. It's regionally very uneven. But since diabetes goes hand in hand, of course, with the vascular disability and other complications, and that will be the only mention of the cardiovascular apparatus that I'm going to bother you today, so the new phenomenon of the last 20 years is chronic heart failure, which is increasing in developed countries in diabetics, we have a few dozen percent of the affected, and I would like to say here the numbers of my colleagues from Brno, so it is not that it is a Prague school, so it is a Brno school. It is currently estimated that we have approximately 230 to 240 thousand patients with heart failure, and likely estimates are approximately 8 billion crowns for this one diagnosis alone. So you can see that 14 billion is really almost small. We need to realize that these people are really sick, they are often hospitalized, and unfortunately they have great complications that they are dying of. Then, truth, they don't need anything from us, and that's a shame. The next thing we have to deal with is kidney failure. In the Czech Republic about 10 percent of the population have chronic kidney disease. The kidneys are insidious because it doesn't hurt for a long time, so the patient can come at a stage where we can't help him otherwise than by a dialysis treatment. But otherwise to return to diabetes, so in diabetics, please, up to 70 percent of the complications are atherosclerotic, which means once again the need not only for treatment, but also for examination of possible and other performances. Otherwise, as far as 2035 is concerned, it is estimated that there will even be about 70 million diabetics in Europe, and unfortunately, we will fit into those estimates, as we always do. It seems that in 2050 it will probably be about 15, maybe 20 percent of diabetes, and I say again that this number does not please me. But what we can do today is prevent it. And the prevention is also worth something. Education by a well-trained expert is, of course, about 85,000 per year for the patient, and it is necessary to provide them with this education because the more we educate diabetics, the longer we can make him accept the way of life we recommend him for his own, we delay the onset not only of the disease in a more difficult form, but also of complications, and reduce the cost of course on his treatment, or it is very important. I'm gonna cut it a little short, 'cause I understand the time has progressed. But let's look at the average annual cost of health care in patients with diabetes in the Czech Republic. So we won't go abroad. It's about 33,000 crowns. Of which we have 25 to 30 percent in patients with type 2 diabetes, which is the one that we can somehow influence by some education on the treatment of diabetes. 15 to 20 percent spend on drugs, but 55 to 65 percent of the sum is then at the cost of hospitalization in patients who undergo complications, which is very unpleasant. The percentage of these patients is growing over the long term and we really need to expect a big increase. It should be said that 12 percent of these diabetics suffer from retinal damage. It's really about their eyesight. But here is not only a health problem, there is also a social problem. Those people are losing their ability to work where they work, eventually they need a contribution in their incompetence. 12 percent of diabetic patients suffer from renal impairment and again fills the emergency room with nephrology. Moreover, unfortunately, this number is increasing, about 1,5 percent of diabetic patients must undergo amputation of the limb, of course dominantly lower, which means that there is disability again and again an increase in money consumption. As for the social impact then, which is not exactly this chapter right now, but just so you know, the total cost of social care in the context of diabetes is only around CZK 12 billion in our Republic, and since the budget is one, it is naturally being poured from the chapter into the chapter. And I'm not talking about their problems based on psychology, psychiatry, that sort of thing. Another thing that we need to take into account, and we should add money here instead, and not reduce, is the possibility of treating the insulin pump for diabetics. As you know, that's very comfortable for them. It's got one thing. Of course, they must also test the value of their blood glucose. Of course, they have paid a certain number of these funds, but there would be a need to pay more, or not to take money, but to add it. Unfortunately, these patients end up being treated with transplants, which is a very expensive treatment, and unfortunately the average age transplanted for diabetes complications is about 40 years of age, which are people who have little children at home, are at a working age, and here it is necessary to delay these complications as far as possible. If we look at the cost, we'll remain cost-effective, at patients with an insulin pump over the years, so in the first year, we have 197,000, which I'm sure you'll recognize is significantly more than the estimated average sum we're spending. If we were to look at other current medical expenditures related to the hypertension that they have in their 70s...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u23	I'm gonna interrupt you and point out, we've opened up another ten minutes for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm not gonna run out for another ten minutes, I'm sure. If we look at the complications that I have chosen, which I have chosen, which they bring, it is obvious that, of course, first of all, the reduction in the payment for state insurance is unreasonable, and I very much ask that you reconsider this situation. For another, you can see that we, on the other hand, need to treat these people more, or not to take money, but to add. And, of course, in the vast majority of diabetic patients, there are also elderly patients who have a number of multimorbidities to do this, and in that case, we are in a situation where, of course, the sums are significantly higher. I just really want to appeal to consider the situation, because I understand that, of course, you can make a very quick conclusion here, which I do not think would be quite right. [[2.40 hours]] And let's see what's going on with the cost of medicine. By 2019, I will not take the covido year because it was atypical, and also IHIS 2019, 2020 will evaluate separately. Not all of you have access to this, so we'll stay in our forebears so we don't have any numbers that would only be for two years. So we have some 26 billion crowns of prescription for drugs, and in addition to that, some 15 billion people volunteered for free-selling drugs. And I just want to say that if they don't have money for medicine, they're gonna get worse with this population's health, because they're not gonna buy the drugs, which, of course, we don't want. In this case, I would say my appeal is very clear. Please consider the situation because, while taking money is easy, a promise will come true, but our population really needs to improve, or thus maintain health care and improve the availability of medicines. And you know very well from the media that it is not almost, say, a quarter year to not be in every month when the media takes place, that there is some rare disease, a funeral in a child, and that there is a family struggling to get the treatment paid. Those treatments are really expensive. That's not one million, that's many millions a year. And some children really are not completely satisfied with the situation and it is dealt with very individually. The insurance companies are trying, but it's really a little more complicated than that. So I really would like to appeal very much to that, and I just said that really very rough skeleton to consider that if we want to maintain the health of the population and care for them, so it is not the way to cut money into the budget, and I will pass that the Ministry has received a reduced budget by 6 billion on its own, with nobles trying somehow to do it alone, but I think it is completely wrong. And 14 billion, although it would seem in the overall budget for the health chapter, as if there is little, so there is a lot. And I wish you all that it would affect your families. The moment it's your family, you'll understand what I'm talking about, and you will, I assure you very much, will be very much in need of all the protection that your family has to take care of. You may succeed because there are 200 people from all over the Republic. There are 10 million people here who hope that this will be considered very well with all the consequences, and I hope, of course, that you will reconsider your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Madame, and I will ask for another enrollment, and this is Mr Mašek. And before he comes to the counter, I apologize for the whole of Mr Exner's day, for family reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm pointing out you've got ten minutes, possibly another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u26	Mr President, Madam Secretary, Dear Lords Ministers, Colleagues, Mr Stanjura, in agreement with Mr Válek, brought 14 billion crowns out of the health insurance system and an additional 8 billion out of the money for the Ministry of Health. I can totally see why he did it. He did this because the government undertook to cut the budget by 80 billion, budget costs, and gradually reduce budget debt. Of course, the situation is changing diametrically. But I'm gonna stick with the base number. So the assumption was to cut costs by 80 billion. What is striking is that 20 to 22 billion should have been at the expense of health care. I will use the fact that Minister Jana Černochová is sitting here with us, and it is like the idea of converting the budgets of health care and the army, as if she had lost 3.5 billion. I believe she would defend herself like a lioness, that she wouldn't just give the money away from the resort. I'd expect the same from every ministry minister. Here it was with a smile, with a slight compliment that it would be all right. Yes, perhaps it was debatable at some point in May to consider it or earlier. Yes, there's been a discussion here, there's been talk about the balances on health insurance accounts, how long the system lasts and so on. You know we also supported the automatic calculation of health insurance payments for state insured people. Our support was here and it's systemic, but we want to come from completely different numbers, and now time shows that it's also necessary. So the veto and its overvote are very dangerous. On the contrary, I think we should get back to the issue. I can guarantee that we would support the machine, but that we should discuss a completely different basis. Because this isn't about whether or not we're going to survive in the medical year 2022. We'll survive that. It's pretty clear that some performances are going to be delayed, that they don't all get everything, because of course the money in that system is missing. I would like to point out that we have succeeded in raising the share of finances in health care from 7,5 percent of GDP to 10 percent in our government. You all know, we all remember it, doctors, health professionals, what it was for fighting, how many years Mr Kubek fought for the Czech Medical Chamber and pointed out that we are at the bottom half of Europe. The average was around 10 percent in Europe, and in 2018 it was 8.8% in the OECD. We have made it to 10 percent over the past four years and we have become among the better countries in Europe, and that is still because our health care is one of the cheapest. This means, from the point of view of paying medical staff, from the point of view of buying drugs, from the point of view of managing hospitals, we are still one of the cheapest, so on the other hand, we provide our citizens with the best possible care. We have one of the best range of care, or availability of health care. Yes, we do, we do, for the money. And at the same time, we're one of the cheapest. So from the point of view of cost-benefit, health care is doing an excellent job, and I would like to thank the paramedics for that. I would have expected that the Resort Minister would not be so easily robbed in quotes, and I chose my colleague Černochová precisely because I know that she would not have been robbed. So I'd assume it's in the health department, too. The question of how much money was spent in health care. Thus, between 2017 and 2021, there were CZK 228 billion more to health in previous governments. At the same time there was an increase in payments for state insured persons, for four years from the original CZK 920 to CZK 1 967, which is paid for state insured persons and one month from January this year. And every month, which abstains from this precisely in favour of voting this out, we think, a really bad law that takes 14 billion from health care and starts the vending machine that we agree with, but from that low amount, the health and health insurance system succeeds in leaving 3 billion crowns in one month. So we're here every month, we're actually fighting tonight to keep another $3 billion in health care. By the way, who are the state insured? It is 60 percent of the country's population in the composition of almost 3 million pensioners and then 1.7 million children under the age of 18. And do you know how the payments moved there? In 1994 it was less than 200 crowns, in 2000 392 crowns, I will skip, in 2018 mentioned 920 crowns and in 2022 more than double, or 1 960 crowns in the four years of the previous government it increased. Why do I mention that? I mention this because those who belong to this category of state insured people, so the state paid about 15 per cent of the expenditure in 2018, 15 per cent of the health expenditure, and they consumed 75 per cent. Basically, they were stowaways, so to speak, from the point of view of payment of health insurance. And here we managed to make a very significant comparison and we got into a situation, and we can also repeat here that the employer pays 9 percent for the employee, the employee then 4.5 percent for the health insurance, i.e. a total of 13,5%. The CFI pays CZK 2,625 a month in 2022 and OBZP, which are persons without taxable performance, those who do not work for some reason are not at the employment office, CZK 2, 187, and the state insured was able to increase it over the four years from 920 to CZK 1,967. We come to the conclusion that this should be compared and very close, because these people are the same, they need similar care. I even told you those state insured people are taking care of a lot more expensive. Which we did, it's been called for a long time. And if the valorisation mechanism had been set up really well, then perhaps in the future it could also be considered that some half-percent or percentage could be reduced by health insurance payments for employees, which I think would be desirable for the future. So the State actually paid 15 per cent of the income of health insurance in 2017-18 for the state insured, while they used up the 75 per cent of all health insurance funds. There is also an unfavorable demographic situation, so the situation is getting worse. [[2.50 hours]] Mr Stanjura, as I have already said, together with Mr Válek, the Ministry of Health has taken about CZK 8 billion, and now what my colleague Farhan has said is that the Ministry of Health is asking back billions. First of all, it's for the purchase of vaccines that needed to be paid, where you took 90 days' delay, and now it's catching up with you, according to media information, you need CZK 2 billion. You asked for another CZK 1.7 to 2 billion, Minister, Mr Stanjura, or the Ministry of Finance, to co-finance VAT on investment events that would not have been realized if you had not received the money or had not received it. So backwards, they're going to be pouring money back from one pocket to the other pocket, but the coalition will keep its promise that it will simply reduce, virtually reduce costs by 80 billion. And once again, of the 80 billion he takes one quarter at the expense of health care, which is simply unbelievable, and it is an important report for our fellow citizens. The condition of health insurance, yes, is relatively polite, but I would take it in time to not lie to each other again, that those health insurance companies have some extreme resources in their accounts today. Because in 1917, I'm sorry... In 2017, there were 31 billion in insurance companies' accounts, 45 billion in 2018, 58 billion in 2019, 64 billion in 2020, 50 billion in 2021, and now it is said that the amount is close to 60 billion there. So these balances on those reserve funds are basically standard, and they work there as a buffer so that those insurance companies are always able to pay on time and to handle some risky situations like covid. And again, if we're not so optimistic, because if someone says there's 50 billion, it looks wonderful, but let's realize that 30 or more billion of it has VZP there, but then there's smaller insurance companies like Military, there's 1.8 billion, health insurance company Škoda 1.2 billion, respectively. A bank insurance company of $2 billion. And that's not such a big pillow anymore, and it could be a certain threat that one of those insurance companies could be controlled, or also, which would be worse, undone. Of course, last years were burdened with the cost of covid, which was somewhere annually between the ink 34 billion in 2019 and about 46 billion in the year, respectively. in 2020 and 2021 46 billion crowns. At present, among other adverse effects, we must mention 17,5% of inflation, which, of course, is reflected in the prices of medicines, instruments, materials, and, of course, a completely separate chapter are energy. Personnel costs also increased in health care. Between 2020 and 19, by 16 percent. In 2021, we reached CZK 114,000 of the doctor's salary, which was 2.7 times the average wage in society, and for non-medical workers it was about 54,000, which was 1.6 times that. The costs are really rising here, too. And if I could get further on the questions of how the 14 billion will be reflected in the individual health care sections, between 10 and 17, 33 percent went to bed care. Calculated from the 14 billion, bed care would have been depleted by 4.6 billion. Outpatient care, which is about 23 percent of the cost, would mean 3.2 billion to her for outpatient care. It would mean a 3.1 billion humiliation on medications. For long-term care 1.8 billion, for medical resources less than a billion and for prevention of about half a billion crowns. So that would actually be, if it got proportional, it would pick up the different areas of the health system. Then I have a very interesting table in front of me. It is a table on the development of the number of insured persons without registration. There is an increase in insured persons, especially Ukrainian migrants, and there is an increase in the number of insured persons between 2021 and 2022, or before the war in Ukraine and after the war in Ukraine, so there is an increase of about 139 000 insured persons aged 19 years and 165 000 insured persons 20 years and older, or adults. And there's a very interesting figure. These insured people should look for their doctor and be interested in so-called capital care, so to register. Of these numbers, which I said here, 139,000 children registered 14,000 children, and out of 165,000 adults, 6,000 adults registered. It is quite consistent with how much children were supposed to go to schools that report to study in schools. There was a presumption that the schools would start, but we would see how many they would eventually start, 130,000 children, and yet the fact that was announced by the Ministry of Health a few days ago was that only 57,000 children had registered in the schools. So less than half of the estimated number. Much less. And for us, out of the 304,000 insured people who have joined our system, they're insured, Ukrainian migrants, so actually outside the system as unregistered, we have 284,000. So I'd like the coalition, I'd like the Minister of Health, I'd like Mr. Stanjura to clear things up. Ironically, it seems that perhaps 150,000 Ukrajinec are not here at all, and the state pays about CZK 2,000 for them every month. It's an excellent health report because they don't consume the supposed care, and it's about CZK 300 million every month, thank God they're coming to health. But for God's sake, it's such a mess! Sorry, I won't use a worse word. [[23.00 hours]] It's all started with the fact that, in addition to biometric parameters, proper Rakušan should also be known to be in contact with them and to know where they live, which has not happened at all, and now what we have adopted here in this House is that, after 150 days, Ukrajinec should simply report to insurance companies in some way, prove whether they are employed or are at the office of work, and we do not yet have the results. We will, of course, ask Mr. Director of VZV Kabátek. However, from the number of those capitalized patients here it looks, or the migrants here it looks like there really are a number of those for which the insurance is paid unnecessarily. In this is a mess at the moment, but most likely in favour of health care and its income from the state. I'd like to ask the Minister here if he'd be able to comment on this and whether he'd say if there were any steps taken or not. Then I have information, because, like my colleagues, of course, I have Špičák to communicate with the hospital directors, with economists both in regional and faculty hospitals, so it turns out that the situation will now be greatly mixed with those energy prices, where the assumptions originally were such, and perhaps according to information from the faculty hospital, when it was originally assumed that energy consumption costs would increase by about 60 percent or 70 percent of the gas, and the reality is much worse, and it will need to be up to 300 percent, which actually confuses with those hospitals, and they will clearly need the resources. So the situation has changed diametrically, and if it was a matter of discussing whether or not 14 billion will be missing, it is clear now that the funds in health insurance will be missing. And let's talk together here about how to do this better and happier, because a vending machine is a really good thing, but the foundation of it, just as you voted for it here, is completely inadequate for the next few years with this energy and price development and inflation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, Ambassador, and please join the debate and it is Mr Milan Brázdil. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Have a nice late evening again, ladies and gentlemen. If I were to describe the atmosphere now in the House, there are a few people here, while there are a lot of paramedics in this republic currently giving birth to children somewhere, operating somewhere, dealing with issues, I don't know, dying people, or examining the dead and working. This House, the government coalition, Members have no interest in listening to what is important. They don't! We know that. We know that. Mr Svoboda, through Mr President, we know this. We know exactly how we're going to vote. We're trying to convince you. You, Mr Válek colleague, Mr Válek colleague, and Mr Tome Philipp, through Mr President. At the very beginning, I saw how neither of you was willing to present the problem. I don't blame you because you're ashamed of it. Because you are once, and I remember it, and so do you, spanteo ac polliceor, you swore an oath. Like all of us, we swore an oath. And you know what? Salus aegroti, suprema lex, the health of the sick is the highest law. And you've suddenly become politicians, you've abandoned the idea that the most important thing of your responsibilities, since you've already graduated, is to give people away and take their best care. Yes, someone's nodding, how come? That's right. For we all, each and every one of the doctors, swore an oath, and we have it as a duty. And... I'm wrong. [[A voice from the diaper.]] My colleague yells at me that I'm wrong when I swore that the highest law is the health of the sick. Sorry, sorry, we, like doctors, have it. And I want to tell you that I'm sorry that there are politicians among us who have embezzled from health care. [[He speaks very loudly, urgently.]] Grab 14 billion of health care - for what? What are we doing this for? For being good to paramedics? For being polite? This isn't about health care, it's about putting patients at risk, does it matter to you? [[Is it?]] Dear Mr. President of the Czech Republic, Mr. Zeman, I know very well why you returned here. Because you're an older man and you've been on the edge of the most precious thing we have, and that's the time in this world. You've realized what's really going on right now, in case the health department doesn't help you. And you're your act, a wrench that wasn't even mentioned -- we're acting here, and no one's saying it. You're actually us, paramedics and patients of the future, we're all future former, future, so you've allowed us, paramedics and these people, 3 billion crowns thanks to this month only, thanks to an extension that doesn't take the entire 14 billion. Thank you for that. Anyone who's on that edge one day, when they realize... and maybe, maybe not all of them. Those who believe in the afterlife, they have an idea, they don't mind. But those who do not believe in the afterlife realize exactly, and put your hand on the heart, what is the greatest, most important, most valuable thing of every person in the world. Do you know what this is? It's time. Your time that you have measured in this world. Not measured, but which can also be prolonged by health care. Yes, that's how it is. Time is the most valuable thing. It's not whether we approve the law here or not. If any highways get fixed. Of course it's nice if we drive in better cars, if we have better air, of course it's all yes, yes, but the most valuable thing you each have is your time in this world. And this time has been extended. It is still de facto extended thanks to health care and care. People used to die when they were 50, today it's a hundred, maybe, who knows where we're gonna end up. And I'd like the money that's in the medical system, they're there now, so it's not collected. I'd like the money to take the things that can continue to help all of us. My colleague, Válek, is switching his hands, and apparently I speak badly when I would like people in our Republic to be able to resuscitate, not just with their hands, but with automatic sterile defibrillators. So that the medical rescue service, Mr. Tom Philipp, a colleague of the doctor, would realize this very well when he was the deputy, how he dealt with it, how we talked about it, so that privates whose effort is profit would not have to do it, but to buy it from the state. If it is 14 billion and it continues and we are 10 percent at 15 percent of GDP, as it is in America, why not? No, but this government has other priorities. To have it fulfilled by fulfilling that it will not have such a state deficit budget. Colleagues, colleagues, what is this? What's against life? What's that? Number. Who cares when he's on his deathbed, better said, when he gets a diagnosis that's incurable? What's best for him? He who believes will call on bůh to help him, and he who is not a believer will believe in doctors. He wants it not to be overworked. To be juicy. To pay good attention to him, to do his not work, to fulfill his mission at 100 percent. Why can't we evaluate a doctor better? Why then, then they wouldn't have to run abroad. This money, this money that's there, should have stayed there. [[23.10 hours]] You're laughing at me, Minister. I can see it. You think I'm babbling because you have a priority of filling the register, or the money you think is useless now, has to be collected. They're no good there. They're just so we can have even better health care. No? No. They're nodding, aren't they? Okay, so somebody doesn't want to have better health care. But those who care for their health and want to spend and not be in this world, do not shorten their lives by not having adequate treatment - the professor spoke of diabetes so that the person does not die of diabetic complications, angiopathy, and other problems. Jesus Christ, if you're not interested in spending your life as well and healthy as possible in this world, or if you're sick to be treated, well, then do it. But most people, and I hope that most people here at home today, if they're even listening to it, or those paramedics who care, realize that it's just wrong. Taking money from the health department, after the covid, all drained. Neglected or not quite well cared for, because people don't go to any preemptive examinations. Of course, the money can be used not only on salaries, but today there is no such hunger for young doctors, medics, to have huge money. I mean, they realized exactly that the greatest value of their lives is spending time with their family, time comfortably spent not only at work. But with that money, you can buy things that will allow us to continue and be healthy in this world. They're drugs, but they're helicopters for paramedics, for example. State form of ambulance. These are medical aids. The health services are moving forward by a mile. And so far, the health services in our republic have kept afloat because of the enormous efforts of doctors who sacrifice time for the benefit of patients and do not go home. Huge amount of overtime. Children's doctors, children's psychiatrists, are missing today. You won't be able to find a sector here that doesn't miss someone in health care. Oh, no, it's not important, 14 billion, we take it away from them, but we don't need to pull it and push it further. We need to make sure we get it from the health department so it's somewhere else. And I know if it's missing, we'll refill it. Yes. These are the arguments. I even know that more than 14 billion today are already in the health care system based on tax collection. It's more than that. But there could have been 14 billion more. I'll keep going. I ran out of ten minutes. After all, I had some thoughts stuck in there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u29	You can continue for another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I am sorry for all our fellow citizens and patients who are not adequately treated or well cared for today. There's no quality care anymore. When you look into people's mouths in our republic, it's a picture of how health care is. They say toilets play a big role, they tell a lot about the country, but it's very important to look into the mouth. And the country that can have good dental care, so it's just a business card. That's where we're really bad at. Why? Maybe money would bring more interest in dentistry, medicine itself. Perhaps, then, doctors and other health professionals would not run away for a better approach and a better and greater reward for it abroad. And despite all that, despite all the people left behind, it's keeping the health services on a luxury level. Anyone who's just been abroad and something's happened to him comes back to their country immediately and tries to deliver here, solve their problems, because our paramedics, we can do it, and it doesn't cost a damn thing when they pay for the care here. But we want to take this health care. We don't. No way. But the coalition wants to take the money. I'm sorry. I'm not going to go on so I don't spin around in circles. Dear citizens, future patients, respectable paramedics, please remember this. What happened today, or what might happen, what the members of the government coalition will do to the health sector. Remember that, because health is always the first thing. Stay healthy, take care. And remember that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I'm gonna ask another one of the applicants, and that's Mr. Jan Síla. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm just pointing out, we've got ten, maybe another ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the subject of our discussion, because it is not just the 14 billion, but the survival of a failing health service as a public service. Paramedics are fighting the withdrawal of CZK 14 billion in favour of the state budget, which is nothing more than a famous wedge-whipping in a situation where energy prices and all the materials that go into health care are skyrocketing. Inflation is around 17 percent at this time. Quality and affordable health services are among the most important functions of the state, which largely determine the future of its inhabitants. The State has paid about 6 million of its insured people, who have consumed 75 percent of health care, around 16 to 18 percent so far. In view of my almost 50 years of medical practice, with senile dementia not yet fully developed, I believe that this remarkable institution should deal with more fundamental problems than the transfer of CZK 14 billion from one to the other pocket of the state. I am stressing the state because, as elected representatives of our constituents, we should finally address the extraction of substantially more funds than CZK 14 billion from the health system to the private pockets of so-called health care entrepreneurs at the expense of the availability and quality of health care in the outskirts and regions of the Republic. As part of the effort to privatise all services of the state, the overall functional health care was completely spread over both the organisational and professional aspects of the activities mainly of the ODS, KDU-ČSL and other right-wing parties, which have been removed after the completion of their tasks, such as the Union of Freedom, ODA and Co. It has come so far today that today outside the big cities and their surroundings are virtually unavailable in some areas of care. Specifically dentists, allergologists, rheumatologists, pediatricians, neurologists and so on. Nurses are missing. Not only departments are closed, but also entire hospitals for lack of staff, while private facilities have enough staff and show rich profits. What does that mean? That something's wrong systemically. Before 1989, health care worked as such, and it went into a state-controlled system not half the money compared to Western foreign countries in the participation of patients at the level of one crown for a recipe. The system of national health institutions, from the municipal, district, regional to the extension of the network of faculty hospitals in medical faculties, worked well together. In the same way there was an organized network of sanitary stations, a network of first-time medical, dental practices, and there were drug factories and medical consumables. There was the Institute of Serum and Vaccines with the production of vaccines, a perfectly functional system of schools for health professionals including quality postgraduate studies. All this with the Iron Curtain, which made it impossible to buy the most modern medical equipment from the West. Which, of course, limited socialist health care at the time. [[23.20 hours]] After 30 years of health reform in the spirit of liberal democracy, there are so-called reserves in health care. Wherever you look. Listed only: Territorial non-accessibility of health care. Deficiencies of medical personnel. Hospital mismanagement. Useless tests in the medical alibis. Overpriced machines. Disturbed, weak to limping primary care. Seven health insurance companies without a competitive environment. Disadvantage outsourcing of everything in biochemistry, laboratories, haemodialysis, kitchens, laundry, cleaning services and so on. Leaving lucrative activities, lucrative ones are meant by those that are specifically covered by health insurance companies. Disadvantage rentals and contracts for deliveries and sub-contracts of all material, senseless, non-conceptual steps or purchases and changes in the system from the centre. Adapting the system to politicians rather than bringing health care closer to people, citizens, patients and voters. Inefficient use of the system, unnecessary operations and, on the contrary, lack of others. Atomization of the field. On the one hand, the lack of qualified professionals and professions in health care, on the other hand, unnecessary investments in increasing qualifications, which do not bring any effect. Vanishing retreats from drug suppliers from systems. Cancel because of health insurance companies with selected providers when closing payments with health performance. This is the basic health problem. Restrictions on unnecessary to luxurious expenses including expensive rents or real estate of health insurance companies. Expensive palaces with luxurious equipment of these health insurance companies are absurd compared to Prague hospitals some and environments for patients and health professionals. In this way, I could name more and more problems where we could save considerably more than the CZK 14 billion in question. However, the really grim state of health funding has proved to be a covide pandemic, especially the past covideo waves, which have made sure that the previous government had to add tens of billions a year to the resort. The amendment reduces this law, which we are discussing, from 1 July 2022 monthly payment from the state budget for so-called state insured persons from 1 967 crowns to 1 567 crowns. This amendment will save the state budget about CZK 14 billion this year. Health so far works at the cost of exceeding the Labour Code and low salaries. The responsible work of health professionals has not allowed the availability and quality of health care to be substantially reduced in the underfunded health care sector, for which health professionals need to be thanked. That is why we believe in the SPD that a deeper and more fundamental reform of the health sector needs to be done and that the first step is to prevent the withdrawal of CZK 14 billion. Finally, ODS and KDU-ČSL are once again in power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and, please, another of the applicants, and this is Mr. Ivan Jáč. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Again, I'm just reminding you, you've got twice ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, allow me to briefly mention the problem of reducing payments to state-owned insurance workers in the field of higher education. It is not, I would say, a negligible problem, because we can count on about 320 000 students in universities today, when their number was even 400 around 2010, and after the recent increase in, say, birth rate will also increase again in the near future, it is estimated to be around 400,000. The impact of savings, i.e. reducing those payments for state insured people, maybe the economy of universities will be reflected first, say in this basic tribe, that is for regular students who are constantly preparing for their future careers until the 26th year of their lives, but I wanted to focus on others, as well as another category that is very important for universities and universities, which is a PhD study in the so-called first run, i.e. early doctoral students, when his students often and regularly participate in teaching, but participate in or assist in research activities, publish and are valid members of the department's collectives. Their good health and well-being could, in the event of a threat to health care, disrupt the course of teaching processes very significantly, thus causing universities to, say, replace or hire external workers, which would increase the cost of covering their wage needs, not even taking into account the lack of such external workers, to obtain them for teaching, possibly for temporary assistance. It would certainly be reasonable to consider this reduction in payments for these, and not only these state insured people, and thus to avoid possible future complications in the running of universities, which awaits, as we have already heard and we know and can imagine, and universities are now reducing their study plans, reducing winter lessons, preparing for online teaching, shortening semesters, moving into summer months, so as to save costs, if necessary. So these increased energy costs could still be added, not only for energy, but also for consumed services, which are mostly purchased and whose prices rise, including food allowance. We certainly do not wish for higher education to become disquieted in any way and cause unnecessary concern for its further development when there are other problems that may arise, as I have already mentioned, from the increased payment of energy and payments for external services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll have another registered, in this case, Mrs Karla Maříková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, we are reunited here because of this amendment to the law, this time thanks to President Zeman, who confirms the SPD's position that reducing payments for state insured people threatens the quality and availability of health care and does not solve the necessary improvements. By reducing payments for state insured people, this year's health care will be CZK 14 billion less. Although the government's bill envisages automatic valorisation proposed by a colleague named Tom Philipp here, the government only comes with it after it reduced the payments for state insured persons. Although, as I said, the government's bill envisages an automatic valuation based on inflation. I'm sure we agree with automatic valorisation as such, but we can't agree that you're really coming up with what the payments have decreased, and so we're not actually going to reach the amount that was supposed to be cut before this year. If, according to the forecast, the next year's payment for state insured persons goes up, as I said, this year's amount won't be, the next amount won't be the one that was supposed to be cut before that. In fact, at a time when those payments will be reduced, when the insurance companies will pay for last year's care, they will probably lead to the fact that the balances on the insurance companies' accounts will start to decrease. This can certainly be a big problem for small insurance companies, because, at the end of the year, they will be forced to start delaying payments and, of course, health service providers can start reducing health care. [[23.30 hours]] The new automatic payment mechanism for state insured people will certainly help insurance companies and health professionals plan better care, as they will see how much they can work with. But to come up with it after the cut in payments is the absolute hypocrisy of this government to show, after she took 14 billion of health care, that she didn't mean it that badly. The state pays premiums from the budget for approximately 5.9 million people, i.e. almost 56 percent of insured people. The payments for them account for about a quarter of the income of public health insurance. Most of the expenditure is spent by children, seniors and unemployed, but also refugees from Ukraine, who are now also state insured. More than half of the cost goes to health care in hospitals. I'm surprised that the Minister of Health, Válek, as a doctor, could even agree that less money will travel to health care when he is one of the paramedics. Health insurance companies are not at all enthusiastic about reducing payments for state insured people because they have been managing deficitly for the second year, which is summarized by President Ladislav Friedrich of the Association of Health Insurance Companies of the Czech Republic for Finance.cz: This year was originally expected with a deficit of CZK 14 billion, which would still cover insurance funds, with 9 billion remaining on the accounts at the end of the year. In addition, a larger part of the balance would only cover outstanding liabilities for 2022. But the next 14 billion declines can no longer cover the balances and some of the unpaid costs will shift to the next year. The scope for a more favourable collection of insurance premiums from employers and a reduction in costs is rather narrow, because most cost increases are due to a change in the agreed amount of payments and a change in the payment decree for 2022, which raised our agreed expenditure by 18 billion. There is therefore a risk that, for financial reasons next year, patients will not receive, as Professor Adámková has already said here, the most advanced medicines will not be offered the most effective treatment. But these are just some of the many consequences that may arise as a result of the economic situation, but also the planned reduction in payments for state insured persons. The Department of Health and Social Welfare and the Medical Trade Union Club, the Association of Czech Doctors, warned about this at a press conference. It will also have an impact on the personnel page. You must know that over 3,000 nurses are already missing, but there are also a number of doctors and other employees, both medical and nonmedical professions. Hospitals are shutting down departments or parts of hospitals, which, of course, makes the availability of care worse. Operations and other performances are postponed. Surely this government decision is a big mistake. It is motivated by the effort to save, at all costs, and the Minister of Health, although I respect him very much as an expert, but this government decision puts him in a position of weak minister because he could not defend himself so that his resort would not be collected 14 billion. And I would have one message for the government: If you really want to save, don't spare on the citizens of the Czech Republic and stop sending money to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u37	Thank you and please the next envoy, and this is Mr. Vladimír Zlínský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, esteemed representatives of the government. Dear Minister, I confess that my performance will be a little controversial, so I hope I will not make your health worse, because I must confess that you are humanly close to me, as a doctor, I do not like to make it worse for someone, although of course we are politically distant. I was afraid that I would repeat myself, because many have been said here. I don't think it's gonna be that much. I think I'm gonna do something again, so I'm sorry about this in advance. The Ministry of Finance, which prepared the present bill, expects it to save about 14 billion, we have heard that it will be a little less, in the state budget and that this will have no impact on the quality and availability of health care provided in the Czech Republic, as the funds would be idle on health insurance accounts as a financial reserve without being used effectively. So I am going to try to contradict this thought construct a little bit, because I think it is based on a situation that has already changed a little bit and which is no longer built on real foundations and does not predict the possible problems that our society, the health system, will be exposed to, with greater or less probability, due to the instability of current social and economic events in our society and in our surroundings. So I have my own predictions - they're my predictions, I admit I'm not saying they're 100% likely to come true. Some are less likely, some more. Firstly, it is not clear that the pace of economic growth can be judged, so I am no longer afraid to say a fall, and therefore it is not possible to accurately predict its effects on the income side of health insurance companies and it is not clear that the rate of inflation can be estimated and precisely that the impact on the expenditure side of health establishments can therefore be predicted. Given the deteriorating economic situation, rather negative trends can be expected for these two parameters. This could lead to delays in payments for health care establishments and thus their fall into secondary insolvency as well as a large increase in their mandatorial expenses. This would have a very negative impact on the quality of health care provided by these healthcare establishments. Another negative consequence of these effects may be the flow of workers into retirement, abroad or other employment. Especially the mass departure of experienced practitioners and pediatricians into retirement would be a disaster, their activity is and will still be irreplaceable for several years. Second, delayed care. It is possible to assume increased pressure on medical devices to perform procedures and to examine delayed care due to the covid-19 pandemic. This will cost health insurance companies increased costs and will lead to pressure to apply the different regulatory measures that health insurance companies have or may have at their disposal, for example comparing their own income of health establishments with a comparable period or comparing the cost of medical treatment and the indicated care of a given health facility with a comparable period of the previous year. The question is how massively delayed preventive care will be to increase the cost of health care due to the neglect of the health of the population, and thus the increase in serious conditions, including oncological diseases, whose treatment is extremely costly. Third, the covid-19 pandemic. So far, it is not clear, nor can it be how this pandemic will evolve. So far, we are seeing a shift towards less pathogenicity, and let us believe that this current trend, including a sensible media and political approach, will remain on this subject in the autumn. It is also unclear how the pandemic of covid-19 will affect the health of our population, when the media of mainstream and some professional circles gradually leak information about the long-term adverse consequences of losing this disease in some people. Nor is it clear what the long-term consequences of massive vaccination will be with mRNA-based vaccines, long-term wearing duvets and respirators and isolation of the population. Now I come to the controversial one. In particular, I would mention the consequences of vaccination, as disturbing reports appear from some professional circles about the increased incidence of thromboembolic diseases, autoimmune neurodegenerative diseases, and unclear deaths of young people. This should clearly lead to studies by independent experts for which a conflict of interest can be excluded. This company cannot continue to function without trust, which evaporates as a steam over a pot of other efforts by the responsible authorities to prevent this. I have learned this from people who are trying to get this information from these organizations. [[23.40 hours]] If anyone accuses me of spreading disinformation, I answer him that I only do my duty as a representative of the people and reflect the experience and wishes of a small number of our citizens who have lost confidence in our current institutions. If independent experts show that I am wrong, I will be happy to accept this information and feel good about the fact that I have properly performed my duty as a politician, even with butter on my head. If the doubts raised about the serious side effects of vaccination with genetic vaccines are confirmed, then, as a society, we need to draw appropriate conclusions to prevent the recurrence of these errors in the near future, including by drawing the responsibility of specific persons. Fourth, Ukrainian war refugees. It is not yet possible to predict exactly how many refugees from Ukraine will eventually reach us. So far, over 400,000 is indicated. Basically, it was said here that we don't even know how many are actually living here, how many have come back, and it is also not clear the age structure of those who eventually arrive here, and therefore their health and illness. It cannot be excluded that people older or socially weaker in worse health will gradually come to us and, if necessary, we will receive and treat many wounded Ukrainian men in the future after the end of the war. This report has already been made in the media. Basically, it has been said that these men are already being treated, that this is basically classified information and that it should be individuals so far. Furthermore, it cannot be said what causes the massive mixing of our population and especially children with the incoming population. This is what happens when the children of Ukraine and our children enter the schools. Of course, I do not wish anything bad to happen, but the structure and frequency of infectious diseases differ in our and Ukrainian populations. So far, infectious diseases of the nature of tuberculosis, HIV, hepatitis, which occur in Ukraine in a much larger number than in our population, seem to be a major risk, and an increase in incidence among our populations can be expected. The question is, how tall. Let's hope it's small. It is a disease whose treatment is extremely costly and long-term and lifelong in the case of HIV. I also draw attention to the long incubation period of these diseases, when the serious symptoms with which patients show up for examination will occur in months to years. The long-term conflict of war has always been a seed site of other infectious diseases and it cannot be excluded the introduction of yet unknown or unusual natural, but mainly artificially modified pathogenic infectious agents into our population. I recommend to all inquisitive Members to read the book Toby Ord over the abyss. It's a book that came out recently. You can find it in the bookstore, you can order it online. By the way, it's written from the point of view, and so I dare say it, and I don't mean it in a pejorative, sunny progressive approach, so they can read this book without fear even the supporters of these ideas. The author is an advisor to the WHO, the US Intelligence Committee and the British Prime Minister's office. Just so you know, it's not a hey, wait a minute, it's a man erudite. Here we can read on page 163 and 164 of this information - quote: The genome of the smallpox virus can be easily searched online. You can synthesize the DNA required custom sequence. Therefore, companies dealing with synthesis seek to reduce this risk. But these methods are imperfect and only 80 per cent of orders are verified. Other risks will arise when table synthesizers get to the market. Biotechnology security must be treated in a similar way to nuclear energy safety. And scientists should find this willingness in them before disaster comes. End of quote. So is Toby Ord a disinformer and a haunter, as I have sometimes been called, or are some honourable Members and members of the government unable to perceive the rapid development in the field of biotechnology and the risk is real and must be reckoned with? If I am in the Chamber of Deputies, I will remind you, colleagues, repeatedly and will try to hold seminars and conferences on this subject where you will be cordially invited. Fifth personnel internal debt. With a turn towards a liberal to neoliberal society, the development of modern medicine and digitalization with the possibilities of accurate control and regulation, there is an increasing pressure on the exercise of the profession of health professionals and mental resistance as well as the knowledge of doctors and all health professionals in other than medical disciplines. The environment in which they are forced to work is increasingly hostile to them and their workload is enormous and wage appreciation in other fields, not so demanding, comparable or better. The result is a regional shortage of doctors in some of the not so attractive fields and regional areas - these are mainly the following fields: practical physicians for adults, practical physicians for children and adolescents, or some outpatient specialists - and especially middle medical staff. According to the director of the IHIS, Professor Dušek, we are in danger of a ticking demographic bomb in some medical fields, again adult practitioners, practical physicians for children and adolescents, where the average age of doctors is about 60 years old and there are tens of percent of doctors on or after retirement, and the number of doctors who are preparing to replace them will most likely not be sufficient, even if they retire gradually. In the event of their sudden departure due to the deterioration of the conditions for carrying out their activities, I am not afraid to say that there would be a disaster of primary care. Another great debt is in the education of young doctors for practical skills and knowledge through older colleagues, where these qualities, in addition to theoretical knowledge and enthusiasm and determination, form the foundations of quality health care. Ask young doctors how older colleagues work with them. On the other hand, ask older doctors how younger colleagues treat them. It is necessary to answer the question whether everything is okay and the flow of knowledge and skill from older to younger is preserved and, after leaving older colleagues, whether their successors are at least able to reproduce the skills and skills of outgoing colleagues. The sixth lack of thermal comfort due to the very likely future energy crisis and stress from the crisis situation is likely to shoot disease to cloud levels. The danger will mainly apply to the spread of epithelial infections including covid-19 disease and will concern weakened old and young people. What might follow, we've been intimately familiar with the past two years. The impact of these factors on the morbidity of our population and on the quality and availability of health care could be significant. Rather, I think that even if my concerns were not fulfilled, which is quite unlikely for some factors, so, given the uncertain and turbulent future, the health insurance accounts might not be counterproductive. Therefore, I cannot support the adoption of that law and it is incomprehensible to me why government officials, including the Minister of Health, insist on this. On the other hand, it is clear to me that this law will pass, and I am already allowing myself to anticipate the near future, when the government will bail out billions of the state budget of a bad financial situation for health insurance companies, which no one could have predicted or expected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I see the President with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, who are in the hall, Minister, although I am a little confused, because the petitioner was the Minister of Finance, even though it is your law, you are here now to defend it, it is not quite a habit, but we have got used to it. I repeated it during the approval of the amendment to the state budget, I repeated it every time I read the amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance and I will repeat it again today after the veto of the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman, who exercised his authority and vetoed the law, returned it to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The proposed amendment is flawed, unreasonable and extremely irresponsible at the moment. This is a measure that, in the current unfavourable economic situation, where according to the forecast by the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, the inflation rate for the year 2022 is predicted to be an average inflation rate of 16.2 %, and in conjunction with the government's proposal for public health insurance will have a negative impact on the quality and availability of health care and will cause poverty in the Czech health sector. Dear colleagues, the health of citizens is not spared even in good times and even in bad times. And this legislation directly affects half the citizens of the Czech Republic. Moreover, it is a huge mistake to consider health care an area that just consumes money. On the contrary, quality health care can significantly increase GDP growth. Because of it, people can work better and longer. From an economic point of view, the health of citizens is beneficial for the state. Our movement took over the Health Department at the end of 2017 in a rather miserable state. The YES movement has embarked on a number of solutions to the system problems that have been postponed for decades, as well as the parties to the current five-calice, which were then involved in the government. These parties from the Health Department have created an area that was best suited to them in their plans to privatise this system. The health sector was underfunded in all respects, from the salaries of medical personnel, doctors and nurses, also the financial condition and equipment of hospitals, when we had to delay individual Czech hospitals at the time of the covid. The state of public higher education in the field of health has also been miserable. And, of course, I'm also talking about payments for state insured people. In recent decades, no five-calice party has dealt with systemic reforms in health care, and no one has addressed the problem that a large part of our high-quality health professionals go to the surrounding countries, primarily Germany and Austria, each year, and how to tackle this systemically. The problem and its solution were left to us. Problems that did not have an easy and fast solution. I'm sure somebody's gonna call again and tell us if we've worked this out. We started working it out. I remember adding money, my colleagues remembering that, so that the medical faculties could increase the number of students, because every year a number of students ended up under a footnote, which means that they fulfilled the conditions for admission, but for capacitive reasons they were not accepted. And then the doctors just missed them. So these were the steps we definitely took, and a whole bunch of others. But let's go back to paying for state insurance. In 2017, when the ANO movement took over this resort, the payment for state insured persons was something above CZK 900, exactly CZK 920. We gradually increased the payment to 969, 1 018, 1 567, 1 767 and finally increased it to 1 967 crowns for 2022. And even for comparison, in 2016, there were 62,3 billion, in 2017 65,3 billion, 2018 68,4 billion, 2019 71,8 billion, 2020 97,3 billion, 2021 127 billion, and for 2022 we planned CZK 138,9 billion. The payment for the state insured was nearly CZK 130 billion in 2021, because it was absolutely necessary in the past to resolve the complicated medical situation, the global pandemic, but also in terms of the remuneration of health personnel. Between 2007 and 2017, payments for state insured persons were increased by only less than 18 billion in 10 years. The very low salaries of the state for children, pensioners and unemployed, which is over 60 percent of the population, were the root cause of the long-term economic problems of the Czech health sector and caused poverty in health care. And then it's not supposed to be underfunded by the health service! The raising of payments for state insured persons we approached reflected the financial demands of health care and responded to pandemic developments. This increase was fully justified as a result of the current situation. We had a clear goal - to ensure a high quality of health care and to protect the health of people living in our country. And today, at a time of falling inflation, which is the highest in the Czech Republic across the Baltic countries throughout the European Union, the logic of increasing the payment for state insured people is only increasing. This price increase will have a significant impact on the amount of the costs of health establishments, and also for this reason the reduction of payments for state insured persons is a completely illogical step. Just for overview, the increase in electricity by 33.6 %, natural gas by 59,8 %, heat, hot water, aqueous, coiled, but also fuel and oil prices, food, but also medical materials and medicines. You really want us to stop drowning in hospitals? Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies will advise patients to buy some sweaters? In the long term, we also stress that we need to adequately evaluate our doctors, doctors, nurses and other health professionals. The YES movement understands that, given the increase in health care prices, medicines, technologies, but also the aforementioned increase in the salaries of health personnel, which is a step absolutely necessary to ensure these workers not only a decent life corresponding to the indisputable demands of their profession, we must also prevent the transfer of our high-quality workforce from the health sector abroad. Please note that saving for old-age care, mothers for maternity, carefree children I see as gambling with a fragile health situation. I am also in danger, and I have this, of course, from my honored colleagues, who are in the field of erudized, that there will be no funding for innovative biological therapy, chemotherapy, to reduce the treatment of rare diseases. The public health insurance system managed the deficit of CZK 12.4 billion in 2021, even in view of our increase in compensation for state insured persons. This year's health insurance plans include a deficit of CZK 9.5 billion. If Petr Fiala's cabinet had not changed the amount of the payment for the state insured, there would probably have been a re-decide in the public insurance system. It is now likely that reserves may be exhausted if the amendment is approved. According to experts, up to three health insurance companies are currently at risk. Insurance companies go to a negative, that's what their directors say, although quite little loudly, for absolutely logical reasons.
