ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 242/2000 Coll., on organic farming and on amendment of Act No. 368/1992 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, as amended / House print 57/ - second reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula for the applicants. I beg you, Minister, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to reiterate the Government's amendment to Act No. 242/2000 Coll., on organic farming. The aim of the amendment is, in particular, adaptation to Regulation 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council on organic production and labelling of organic products. The proposal shall further adapt to Regulation EU 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council on official controls. The proposal for an amendment to the Act on organic farming in the framework of adaptation to the abovementioned European Union legislation introduces an electronic database of organically reared animals, specifies a range of bodies having an obligation to register in the organic farming system, in order to reduce the administrative burden, extends the duration of bio-products certificates following the frequency of checks for two years, from the current 15 months. It replaces the term of the certificate of origin of organic products in practice by the term used already the certificate of organic products. It includes seed and other propagating material of plants into the category of bioproduct, while under the legislation still in force it fell into the category of other bioproduct. It regulates the facts of the offences of natural persons, legal persons, business individuals and delegated persons. Since the last major amendment to the Act on organic farming took place already in 2011, it is necessary to respond to knowledge from application practice. In addition to the adaptation, the proposal replaces, for example, the term ecological entrepreneur in practice by the term already used by the ecological farmer. It also specifies the method of labelling organic products certified in the Czech Republic by the national logo for organic production. It will allow the publication of a model for registration in the organic farming system on the Ministry's website. The draft law was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 8th meeting on 5 May this year, and it recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the Government's bill as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted were drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and are in line with the concept of the petitioner. They will contribute to improving the government bill, and I therefore agree with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee and the committee resolution was delivered as House prints 57/1 and 2. I am now asking the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mrs Monika Oborná, to take the floor, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to inform you, colleagues, of the resolution of the agricultural committee which adopted the following resolution at its 8th meeting on 5 May: "Agricultural Committee I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a government bill amending Act No. 242/2000 Coll., on organic farming and on amendment of Act No. 368/1992 Coll., on administrative fees, approve the amendments adopted; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to propose other necessary adjustments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the rapporteur to inform you of this resolution; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." I would also like to make a brief comment on the amendments. The amendments adopted by the Agricultural Committee have been received from Mr Smetana. I'll take the liberty of commenting briefly. I'd split them in two. The first concerns the possibility of abolishing the registration of an organic farmer at its own request and determining that the control authority on imports of organic products is a State agricultural and food inspection. The second part of the proposal concerns the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, which has the power to maintain a list of websites offering dangerous food. The website in this list will block Internet access services in the territory of the Czech Republic. The operator of these pages will be able to appeal against the registration. The Central Inspectorate shall decide on the appeal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application. I will therefore ask Mr David Pražák to speak in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u6	Once again, good morning, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues. I'm not going to delay, we have a fixed point at 11 o'clock, and we'd all like to see this point of organic farming, the amendment to the law, come so that we can have it on the agricultural committee on Tuesday, so maybe I'll keep it for the next time. The only thing I will then apply to the amendment. I am glad that in the amendment to the Environmental Agriculture Act, not only is there a refinement of the concepts and implementation of the European directive and so on, but there are also things that are practical, but we have added one thing that came out of the Union of Ecological Organisations, and that is the education that is required for inspectors, more or less for companies that carry out certification and control checks on agricultural operators. So these organisations, which provide professional independent control and ensure certification in the organic farming system, have long been faced with a lack of controllers and controllers, more or less their employees, and thus delays in certification not only of products and farms, but also delays in entry checks on new entities. This means that when someone wants to apply today and calls the certification organisation, she unfortunately has to tell them that it doesn't give time, and sometimes farmers get into a situation that they are unable to apply for ecology in a given year and they move about a year. Which I think, today and in the context of the common agricultural policy, when we are to raise this ecology for the future, would be good to move it a little bit. [[10.50 hours]] Therefore, there is an amendment, where it is a simple change, so that from the established education to the practice of candidates in the selection procedure for these positions there is at least a graduation - it remains there, there was a graduation before, but there may not be a field of agriculture, it may have a degree in industry or anything else, but it must have had a practice in agriculture, food and veterinary, because it happened that people who, although they had a degree in another field, had been in agriculture for several years, sometimes even tens of years, but did not have a selection procedure because they did not have a graduation. So it remains there, and the amendment is based on the requirements of control organisations and experience from practice. The control of persons engaged in organic farming is carried out under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture and is carried out so far by four certification bodies. I would like to say that this amendment is across the political spectrum. I will then join him in a detailed debate. But I would also like to say that, as with the previous press, it is communicated with the Ministry of Agriculture and there should be no problem with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u7	Thank you, too. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? I don't see anyone. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or the rapporteur wishes to speak at this moment? [[Minister: No. Newsletter: No.]] It's not like that. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I'm filing two applications. Mr Karel Smetana will be the first to appear and Mr David Pražák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u8	Hello again, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to sign up for an amendment that is being conducted in the system under number 830. It is a practically identical amendment adopted by the Agricultural Committee, with the exception that there is an additional part concerning reimbursement of costs where laboratory analyses of organic products imported from third countries have been carried out by the Central Institute of Control and Testing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u9	Thank you. Now, then, Mr David Pražák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u10	Thank you. I would like to sign up for an amendment under the number registered in the 833 system. It is an amendment to the group of Members David Pražák, Karel Tureček, Josef Kott, Jana Krutáková, Lukáš Vlček, Tomáš Dubský and others. As I said in the previous speech, this is an adjustment to the requirements for the education of controllers in control and certification organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-004-005.u11	Thank you, too. I don't see anyone else in the debate. If this is the case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. And I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur would like to speak with the final word? [[Minister: No. Newsletter: No.]] It's not like that. In that case, I shall end the second reading of this proposal. Thank you. I'm opening another point on today's program, and that's
