ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 240/2013 Sb., on investment companies and investment funds, as amended /house print 238/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Minister Martin Baxa will present the proposal. I'll ask him to take the floor. The Minister represents the Minister of Finance. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, to give the introductory word on the bill amending Act No. 240/2013 Coll., on investment companies and investment funds, as amended. The draft law implements a European directive that regulates the key information document by the management companies of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. It is a very brief amendment of a technical nature, which contains two amendments. The draft law transposes the rule that the provision of a key information document fulfilling the requirements of the European Regulation on the key information document will also be considered to comply with the requirements of the European Directive, which is transposed into this draft law. The proposed regulation therefore constitutes an administrative simplification in providing key information to investors, namely that key information will not have to be transmitted to investors in duplicate. Since this is a transposition regulation, which is very brief, I would like to ask for a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Michael Kohajda. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, let me refer here to the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Investment Companies and Investment Funds Act, which has a grand scale of two changes. I would just add to the Minister that the deadline for implementation has already expired on 30 June 2020, and therefore we are in a slight delay. However, the Government has submitted this proposal to the House on 3 June 2022 and we have been waiting for it to be discussed since summer. As the Minister said, the main subject of the adjustment is the addition of a new paragraph. 3 in Section 230 of the ZISIF, which states that this draft law transposes the rule that the key information document meeting the requirements of the Regulation on the key information document relating to structured retail investment products and insurance of investment products, the so-called PRIIPs, will also be considered to comply with the requirements of the Directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities, the so-called UTCS and, respectively, the transposition provisions of the Act on investment firms and investment funds. Only briefly, what is the key information document. It is a basic document for retail clients, small ones, with the fact that it is created by the creator or seller of an investment product and serves to provide them with a brief, usually three-page, description of the key information about these products when this document is to contain at least the type definition of the investor for which the product is intended, risk, product yield profile, product costs, contact information that can be directed by investors' complaints. This means that it should be brief, clear, so that the investor can decide whether or not the investment instrument is suitable for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate on this point. Mr Štolpa is the first to report to the general debate. Ambassador, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall give the opinion of the ANO Group. Today we are discussing the amendment to the Act on Investment Companies and Investment Funds, which was submitted to the Government by the Ministry of Finance. As the Czech Republic, we need to be a welcome destination not only for Czech but also for world investment companies and investment funds and to play a role on the world investment map. At the same time, it is important not to regulate investment and investment funds, but to have oversight. During its lifetime, a modern economic entity is going through decisions on how to spend its resources in the most efficient way, consume or re-send current consumption and invest towards increasing its own future consumption. In economic theory, it is assumed that the entity in the economic space behaves rationally with a view to maximizing its benefits, which implies that economic operators will reduce current consumption and implement investments with the potential to increase future benefits. An investment is an asset owned by an undertaking either to increase its wealth through such returns on that asset, such as interest, dividend, royalty and rent, or to assess the asset by capital, here to obtain other benefits from the holding of the asset. Especially in the current situation, when we face historically unprecedented inflation in the Czech Republic, people logically start looking for investment opportunities and opportunities to maintain the value of their assets. Investment funds and investment in more complex financial instruments are now becoming increasingly sought-after and, unfortunately, the risk of fraud is growing in hand and you will never see your money as an investor again. Not to mention standard and logical investment risk, but it's about deliberate fraud and other criminal activities. Almost every fifth small investor in the Czech Republic reduces its investment volume in order to cover the cost of rising household spending. This is reflected in the eToro investment company survey, which is carried out on a quarterly basis among 10,000 small investors in 13 countries. In the Czech Republic, the survey took place at the end of September among thousands of respondents. While a fifth of all Czech investors limit investment to pay rising household spending, 14 percent do so in order to create emergency savings, 8 percent retains cash for investment when markets begin to recover. [[13.20 hours]] The confidence of Czech small investors decreased by 10 percentage points to 64 percent over the last year, the survey showed. Investment in Czech startups is also changing with the slowing world economy and war. They don't usually die, but investors are tougher. It's not surprising. They already have experience abroad. Startups don't get as much money as they used to, and the impact of a more cautious approach is also found in the country. The United States of America is one of the largest countries according to the number of investments made in the Czech Republic. According to CzechInvest, most investment projects are focused on the automotive industry, engineering, aviation or software development. Just a reminder that investment companies in the Czech Republic have the legal form of joint stock companies. These are usually subsidiaries of commercial banks which are entitled to carry out the following activities on the basis of the granting of a licence from the Czech National Bank: Function of the manager: It is the management of assets of investment or mutual funds including investment and management of related risks. Administrator's function: This is the administration of investment and mutual funds. This includes bookkeeping, legal services, property valuation, handling complaints and complaints, as well as calculating the value of shares or mutual funds. Other permitted functions: Among other things, investment firms may also simultaneously deposit and manage investment instruments of these funds, including the adoption and issuance of instructions concerning related investment instruments. Investment firms may also manage assets and other customers on the basis of individual contracts or provide financial advice. The draft law transposes the rule that the sharing of key information complying with the requirements of PRIIPs will also be considered to meet the requirements under the UCITS Directive and, respectively, the Transpositional Provisions in the ZISIF. Given the purely technical nature of the amendment, which has no impact on the substantive aspect of the legislation, the petitioner is proposed an exception from the RIA. The current legal situation in the Czech Republic should therefore be adapted to Directive 2021/2261 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 2021 amending Directive 2009/65/EC as regards the use of key information sharing by management companies of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. According to the explanatory memorandum, this Directive provides that the obligation to provide investors with so-called key information can be met in the future by providing key information provided by other legislation, in particular by Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Council Regulation (EC) No 1286/2014 of 26 November 2014 on the sharing of key information relating to structured realised investment products and insurance products and investment components. Key information is information provided to investors before they make investments. The circumstances, form and language of the communication are governed by the existing Investment Companies and Funds Act. Every investment company must have a website. However, communications shall also be provided in paper form without remuneration and shall include the calculation of remuneration or composition of the remuneration committee, as already laid down in the existing law. The proposed legislation is necessary because of the need to implement European legislation. Failure to fulfil this obligation would expose the Czech Republic to the risk of initiating infringement proceedings by the European Commission and subsequently to financial sanctions. As an ANO parliamentary club, we support the approval of this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u7	Thank you. Who's next to the general debate? Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would just like to formally read the proposal, which I have already mentioned in the introductory words, given that it is a transposition regulation, I would like to ask for a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u9	Yes, thank you very much. Is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur? It's not like that. Since there have been no proposals for a rebuttal or rejection of the proposal, we will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote. One more time... Is Mr. Kohoutek reporting, or was it a mistake? I think it's a mistake. Well, I'll read what we're going to vote on one more time. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Who's against it? In voting number 74, 137 Members were enrolled, 109 voted in favour, and no one was opposed. The proposal has been adopted and I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. And now we will vote on the proposal that was made in the general debate by the Minister, namely to reduce the time limits for committee discussions to 30 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 138 Members voted in favour of 107, and no one opposed it. The proposal to shorten the time limits has been adopted. We've dealt with this press, and I'm done discussing this point, that is item 8. This is Madam President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, we now have a law on the agenda, Parliamentary Press 165 - the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, and because the law has been accompanied by big discussions since the beginning. I myself remember when it was discussed in the last parliamentary term, so I had a negative attitude towards it, then our experts simply convince me of the purpose of this adjustment. There are opinions about this - someone says it is contrary to European law, another expert says it is not contrary to European law, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u11	Madam President, I will interrupt you. Let me ask my colleagues, I understand that you are looking forward to Ježíšek very much, but still a little bit more quiet, please hold on a little longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u12	I'll make it short. The President here is sending warning signals to me to make it short, so I'm gonna cut it short. I simply want to say that this proposal deserves a technical debate. We will take it, our expert, my colleague, the doctor and Mr. Janulík will call a round table of experts across the spectrum, but in fact, I think they are in favour of those who are opposed to discussing the subject again, and that is why I am taking a break within 14 hours at the ANO club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u13	Madam President, if we can agree, because this is the last point of the meeting, we would need to put a vote on the proposal to remove the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 48th session of the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can end the meeting. [[Mrs Schiller: Shall I give it to you?]] You can design it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u14	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. Of course, I should have given that. So I'm making a motion to remove the remaining points from this meeting, and I'm taking that break later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-008-008.u15	Thank you very much for updating your proposal. And I will put this procedural proposal to a vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 76, 136 Members were signed in, 100 voted in favour, no one opposed. We've approved the motion. We have therefore exhausted the approved agenda of the 48th meeting. And I, before I end it, will take advantage of the fact that I'm the last person to chair it. Thank you for your cooperation in the end year, I wish you a peaceful Christmas, all good for the new year, so we will meet here in a new year in health. Merry Christmas and a lot of health for the new year.
