ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u1	1. The Government's Bill repealing Law No 112/2016 Sb., on the record of sales, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation /German press 177/ - third reading I'm still checking the votes. There you go, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I voted against, I have a pro on high. I question this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u3	Yes, I understand, so we'll vote on the objection. I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 136 Members were enrolled, 129 voted in favour, and 2. Objection received. We will therefore repeat the second vote on the agenda for our meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 136 Members voted in favour of 86, against 45. The motion was accepted. I'll give you a moment to make sure that the vote can be re-checked. I don't see interest, we can continue. So I'm reopening point one, which is a government bill that repeals Law No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation. This is House Press 177, we are at third reading. I would ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the Committee on Budgets, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 177/2, which has been delivered to you on 12 October 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 177/3. I am now asking the appellant, the Minister, if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Yes. So please, Minister, you have the floor. And I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down in the room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention in the third reading the draft law repealing Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u5	Minister, I'm gonna interrupt you because there's too much noise in the room. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm going to ask you to disband the discussion groups and possibly move out of the O.R. so we can discuss press 177 in peace. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. All provisions in this draft law relate to the termination of the record of sales. No adjustments are proposed in addition to those necessary to terminate the sales record. At present, the obligation to register sales is interrupted by a special law adopted in response to the covid-19 pandemic with effect from 27 March 2020, until the end of this year, so we have shut down two and three quarters of the year. As a result of this interruption, the so-called third and fourth stages of sales records never took place. If this proposal had not been adopted, from 1 January next year there would have been an obligation to record sales to all taxpayers, especially those of the third and fourth waves, which means another hundreds of thousands of small entrepreneurs. The first reason for the cancellation is that small businessmen, entrepreneurs as a whole, dirty suspects who are in the 24-7 regime, that is, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, must develop and prove to the State that they are not cheating, cheating, and being honest. And then the practical reasons. The number of cashless payments increased sharply, to 60 percent last year, with a presumption of 80 percent in 2025. As we all remember, the Constitutional Court has abolished the obligation to register sales made by cash-free payment as an unconstitutional obligation. In the meantime, a flat-rate tax institute has also been introduced, where the marginal impact of the EET is, and as you know, both the Chamber of Deputies and yesterday the Senate has increased the threshold for compulsory VAT registration and also the limit for the possibility of using a flat-rate discount. The last thing I would like to point out is if, and I have already said it once: if we fail to do this by the end of the year, there would be an obligation to re-record the sales of hundreds of thousands of small entrepreneurs. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the introductory words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u7	Thank you very much. I am now opening a general debate. It was the first time that President Schillerová signed up with priority rights in writing. Madam President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, it is only a few days ago when I have read the Petr Fiala Government's programming statement after a long time. I gradually went through the point by point and found that de facto the only point that this government is likely to be able to fulfil after today is the abolition of the EET. Exactly in this I see one of the main reasons for this completely illogical and stupid attempt to abolish the EET. The cancellation of electronic sales records is a purely political step without any economic logic. In the last few months, the five-wheelers have shown us that they do not care whether our citizens are truly poor, that the Czech industry is already on its knees and a number of family companies with a long tradition are heading slowly and surely into bankruptcy. Similarly, the five koalice completely resigned from the trajectory of the sustainability of public finances. They plan to indebt this republic for an unprecedented CZK 1,200 billion, with the introduction of new taxes and an inflationary increase in income. In 2023, there will be an increase in the structural balance from 2,9% of GDP to 3,1% of GDP, and the consolidation of public finances is not planned by the five-wheelers in 2024, when the structural balance is to be 3.0 percent of GDP as well as in the following year. On the contrary, the priorities of this coalition were to take the funds of health, which we, on the contrary, faced with the cod crisis, vehemently supported, because the quality of health care has always been a priority for our government. [[9.20 hours]] Furthermore, another priority is to amend the Civil Service Act and create a number of well-paid seats for their friends and friends, and even support a reduction in gambling tax in tax matters. Thanks to the opposition's pressure, the gambling lobby is still not popping champagne. And in this way, I could continue in the unreasonable steps of the Cabinet of Petr Fiala to e-book sales. Today, as a result of an entirely obvious and pointless fight against everything that the government of Andrej Babiš has put in place, Petr Fiala and Zbyněk Stanjura want to abolish one of the basic instruments of digitizing the government. They want to abolish one of the basic instruments of balancing the business environment in the Czech Republic and they want the state budget in this crisis period in the light of what I said a moment ago, to deprive them of 13 and to introduce more waves of up to CZK 21 billion. Since 1 December 2016, it has been operating in various forms of EET, and we have all seen the smooth start of this system. In the first phase, the EET concerned the segment of accommodation, catering and hospitality. The sector where according to analyses and according to data of the Czech Statistical Office the largest volume at the time of non-renounced income was expected. Gradually, other segments began to expand. In the second wave, which applies from 1 March 2017, there were segments of retail and wholesale trade. Other waves were supposed to start gradually, but due to the arrival of the pandemic covid-19, this gradual run was delayed. Step by step, with reason, we have put in place new measures that not only improve the quality of the market economy in our country. According to official data of the Ministry of Finance, the first and second EET wave brought additional CZK 13 billion to the state budget every year. When the other two remaining waves were introduced, it would even be another CZK 7.7 billion. Together, it would be almost CZK 21 billion - every year! These are all quite certain funds that would be very useful to the government in the budget now. On the one hand, it is not possible to talk about raising taxes, as the Minister and Vice Prime Minister of this Government, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka showed us yesterday and these days. To talk about the fact that the government cannot help companies and households more and, on the other hand, voluntarily cut a significant budget revenue. Moreover, according to STEM's independent research agency, the majority of the public's attitude towards EET is positive. The two-thirds majority of the company considered the introduction of EET as a positive measure and this view is stable over time. A positive view of the EET was maintained by the public despite the constant and usually false criticism of the current government five-wheeler. The STEM survey revealed that EET, in the opinion of respondents, contributes to the settlement of the business environment in the Czech Republic. This view is shared by the majority of the Czech public in three-fifths. Up to two thirds of the company believe that electronic sales records contribute to better tax collection, and almost two-thirds of the company considers the expansion of EET to be fair, and the three-fifth majority even to be correct. It is quite clear and clear that the EET system with significant public support in the Czech Republic. EET helps in equality of business, improves the quality of the market economy and the business environment. And I believe that it is necessary for the state to ensure equality of conditions, and according to STEM research I am not alone, most Czech citizens feel the same way. Citizens want to live in a republic where there is a fair business environment. Where decency is not a disadvantage. Your government wrote in the program statement that it wanted to fight the gray economy. This is your step, but it is like living water for the grey economy. The EET effect was obvious. It was a significant and significant reduction in the administrative burden for entrepreneurs, but also for the state apparatus. The EET's financial office gets the information on time. It can make targeted use of them and subsequently also analytically process them. Thanks to the EET, the financial authority did not have to initiate random checks and checks, which burdened an honest part of the business sector - and here I want to say that this part is a complete majority - time and administratively unnecessary. And, of course, these tax controls are not free and will cost hundreds of thousands of crowns at the state's administrative costs and another hundreds of thousands of crowns will be the share of the business sector's administrative costs. The abolition of the EET is disadvantageous both for the public sphere and for citizens and entrepreneurs. EET entrepreneurs were able to use the information from the EET to their advantage. By repealing the EET, entrepreneurs are losing an effective tool to support their business, which many have already built on the EET platform, linked it to accounting programs, tax programs and so on. Traffic control, e-accounts for customers, security of turnover for VAT or flat-rate tax, proof of turnover financing to the bank and form. But what I'm most sorry about is that the whole industry is going back in time to the 1990s. Unfortunately, a return to the grey economy can already be expected in the gastronomic sector, and this is already happening today, according to the information of people working in this sector. A large increase in cash payments can be expected and, in the period of such dramatic inflation, where government aid is, unfortunately, a much higher incentive to circumvent the tax obligation. Fair business is the basis of a healthy economy and a competitive advantage must not be based on non-taxation of income. The fact that Petr Fiala's government has decided to turn honest-working people, hard-working entrepreneurs, and to betray the trust of all those who believe that a fair approach is the right one is proof of how government five-wheelers do not care about their citizens. The government's five-wheelers look only at themselves. Instead of thinking about introducing double-quality care, reducing parental tax, increasing labour taxation, reducing unemployment aid or increasing retirement age, it should first look at where funds can be raised in the state register by increasing the efficiency of tax collection. You, on the other hand, are cutting the funds. And that is irresponsible, confused and, above all, very dangerous for budgetary policy. Let me point out a few more speeches from this week, or from the past few days, when - let me not only speak here as a politician, but let me quote a representative of the business public, because I think that the views of both the Chamber of Commerce and other business associations and chambers that support at least - at least - the retention of a voluntary EET, which is the subject of the amendment that I tabled, so I think you should know. [[9.30 hours]] And I'm here to quote Mr. Kastner's restaurant, who is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. The article or the interview in Hospodářské noviny has the headline Cash only. The pubs are returning from the '90s, but this is not the way, says Restaurant Kastner. And he says that he basically wants to continue his business a little over half of the restaurants in the Czech Republic. It's coming from a survey of Eden's food stamps... Edenred on a sample of more than 200 enterprises. The situation is bad and some businesses survive only because of the magic of cash only, i.e. grey cash, which goes outside the books. It's a mischief, but at the same time a dead end, warns Kastner. According to him, the worst times will come for restaurants at the beginning of the year, when people will be saving after Christmas. And then the power of the concept of how you can lure people to what you lure them to and so on. And so did Space X, it's a podcast, and he says the beer has to go up, the restaurant's too much, the good guys survive, the cheap guys. The government just told us no. And I quote from this podcast, when he says how the restaurants are down, and he says the decline could have been even bigger than the cancellation - it is not cancelled by the EET, it is voluntary - the cancellation of the EET. He believes that it will save a few individuals from collapse, but he will return the whole gastronomy back to the 1990s. And that's your way. This is exactly your way: ignoring people, ignoring the needs of companies, ignoring the needs of everyone who is now in huge problems, but ideology - ideology - to elevate them above common sense and the interests of society. That's what you're after, and that's what you're really capable of getting to that final, final end. That's all I wanted to say to you, knowing that you have a majority here, and that this pointless proposal will certainly be brought to an end. However, when I look at the right side of the hall, I see that almost no one is sitting there. That interest in this relatively key issue, which is not just some kind of political shootout between us here, between the opposition and the coalition, but moves the business sector, moves those who clearly oppose this pointless proposal of yours. And I think that this is undignified, because people are watching us, listening to us, listening to us by entrepreneurs, representatives of unions and chambers, and I think that this House should have a dignified representation here, not only from the opposition, but also from the coalition. I am making a motion, Mr Vice-President, to interrupt this point to the end... by the end of 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u9	I have noted the motion for a procedural nature, which we will vote on immediately. I've summoned colleagues from the O.R. [[From the plenary: vote.]] Yeah, that's right. A colleague of Benda, a counter-proposal for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of counter-proposal because I consider it unnecessary for us to delay this press until next year today, so that for the procedural proposal put forward by Mrs Schillerová, who is undoubtedly to serve the ANO meeting for about that year, the proposal should be made for five minutes. Club YES, I think it can be consulted very quickly because it is clear about the matter and is consistent all the time with a clear position. So the counterproposal is five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u11	For five minutes, yes. Anyone else applying for an alternative proposal to President Schillerová's proposal? It's not like that. I've already recorded an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. We will wait until the number of Members is settled. So the number of Members has settled. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. First of all, we will vote on the proposal to suspend for five minutes by Mr Benda, which was the counter-proposal for the President to propose that the negotiations be suspended by the end of 2022. We will therefore now vote on Mr Benda's proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Voting number seven, 127 Members have been voted in favour, five votes against 58. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the original proposal by President Schillerová, who proposes to suspend our negotiations by the end of 2022. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 8, 128 Members voted in favour, 47, against 79. This proposal was also rejected. And so we will continue our negotiations. With a factual remark, I have Mr Exner here. That was probably a delayed vote. Mr Bělobrádek, with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just going to the previous performance by my colleague Schillerová. It's not true that a five-calice is in favour of reducing gambling taxes. I'm defending myself for KDU-ČSL. It's not true. KDU-ČSL certainly did not support this proposal. And it is also necessary to look at the vote and how it was then withdrawn, and it was also at the pressure of other parties. So that's what I'm defending myself against. And the other thing. Electronization also involves the fact that many of us did not sit in the hall, but we listened to you, even though it was sometimes suffering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u13	So another, with a factual point, is Mrs Balaštíková. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u14	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like, through you, Mr President, to speak to my predecessor, Minister Stanjur, who said that the EET is canceling so that honest entrepreneurs do not become please dirty suspects. I would like to turn against it, because under your baton, Minister, you will betray honest entrepreneurs by disturbing EET and interfering with it once again allow the grey economy to be started and even more dishonest to the few even more dishonest ones to be even more dishonest. Because once again, there are questions that were here at the beginning of the '90s. Do you want it with an invoice, or do you want it without an invoice? And it seems to me that the dishonest once again rejoiced, and we spit in the face of the honest because they had the expense. Everything worked. You can see that most citizens are happy with that. They have states that are at a much lower level than we are. And we're gonna cancel. We are not going to learn from these matters. And it's funny, because you're looking for the money you want to finance our needs, and yet you're throwing the money you have in the cash register out the window. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u15	There have been some apologies before we go back to the general debate. Mr Brabec Richard apologizes for the whole day for working reasons, Mr Nacher Patrik apologises until 10.15 for working reasons, and Mrs Válková Helena apologises within 10 hours for working reasons. On the contrary, Mr Zuna cancels his apology today and will also vote with replacement card number 31. [[9.40 hours]] We are going back to the general debate. We'll continue with priority rights. Next in line, Vice-President Karel Havlíček. Mr. Vice-President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u16	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I have been with the introduction of the EET de facto since the first days, then as a representative of small and medium-sized enterprises and businessmen, so I have experienced everything that has been going on around it. I dare say that I have a certain opportunity to judge this from every angle, not only the political one, but, of course, the business one, with regard to all the pluses, but also the minuses that EET has brought in. So let me say a few of my observations on the final day when EET will undoubtedly drop off the table. First thing EET brought. Undoubtedly, it brought about the same conditions for all. The grey economy has been reduced, and to a large extent, I consider -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u17	Mr President, I will interrupt you because I can barely hear you in the noise in the room. Again, fellow Members, if you wish to address a subject other than electronic sales records, please pay attention to it in the foyer. Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. To a large extent, I considered it to be a symbolic end to the nineties. We understand each other, the symbolic end of the '90s. I'm not saying this pejoratively against the fact that at the time it was all fundamentally wrong. It was an extraordinary time, '90s. Everyone started a business in some way. The fact that many things were actually done in the gray economy was largely overlooked. In any case, however, in 2014, 2015 it was already about the need to put an end to this time, and this was a symbol, a big symbol. Many entrepreneurs have entered the business sector, especially hospitality, restaurants, precisely because they have seen that there will be a fair environment for all. But it wasn't just a fair relationship between businessmen. He was to a large extent also creating a new fair relationship between a businessman and a customer. In other words, the customer understood and wanted and demanded that the same conditions apply to all, and he didn't like that he had to pay taxes, while some - some I deliberately say, by far not all - who sell it to him, so they didn't have to pay taxes because they managed to sly avoid them. To a large extent, this was also the basis of a completely new approach that we started to implement as the government of the YES movement, which was in the government, when we clearly said that we would not increase taxes - we did not raise taxes either, on the contrary, we have reduced them - but we will collect taxes consistently. That's what I think is fair, and it worked out in these years. To a large extent, this created the basis for digital communication between the state and entrepreneurs, to which it was possible to follow a number of other instruments. Among other things, it began to be used within the Portal of a citizen, undoubtedly a very good tool, where each of the customers, buyers, could deposit a receipt and in any complaint he did not have to carry a paper receipt printed, but it was sufficient to prove that the receipt was stored on the Portal of a citizen. This is a comfortable tool of the twenty-first century. No one can question that. The state collected considerable amounts each year. According to the employees of the Ministry of Finance who reported it at the last conference about six months ago, it is about CZK 14 billion a year. That's not a small amount. Moreover, a certain bonus was undoubtedly that companies had an internal control tool for their employees. But I don't put that as the most important argument. Of course, those companies can sort it out in another way. But in any case, we are among the 17 countries that have introduced, in some form, the electronisation of sales in Europe, in the European Union. And that's why a whole bunch of unions, associations, chambers supported it. I was the chairman of one of them for those small and medium-sized companies and businessmen. Even because we introduced various tax advantages, motivations, and so on, for those who bought it, it was triggered without any major problems. What didn't come true in spite of all the schnitzels and all the people who told us what it would do to the negative reality. It was not fulfilled that a large number of establishments would end. Let's talk numbers, I like numbers. When we look at the number of self-employed persons, by 2014, the basic or fundamental decline in the number of self-employed persons was up to 988 000. Since then, despite the introduction of the EET, even though there was covid - we supported businessmen at the time of the covid - the number of self-employed people has thus increased. According to official statistics, it has climbed to the current maximum level, which is 1,100,000. To put it simply, there were 15 000 entrepreneurs in government every year during the ANO movement. Fifteen thousand even though the EET was being implemented. But if we look into more detail, so did the tradesmen in the so-called toxic area where it was said that they would leave most of them, which was hospitality, restaurants, small pubs and so on, so when we evaluated it, about 10 percent of the businessmen ended every year until EET. I mean, in the hospitality area. And do you know how much it's been since then? Ten percent again - and ten percent more. Yes, it is a field where there is a great dynamic of decline and new entrepreneurs. So nothing happened at all in this area. Nor did it come true that it was said that small companies could not technically make the transition to EET. They did it without a problem with the help of those who sold them the machines and so on. It was no problem at all, everyone could use it without a problem. Nor did it come true - as I remember today, as it was said and threatened to be a stalking tool, that thanks to EET it would be possible to see who bought the potato, sold the potatoes, that it would be abused competitively. Absolutely ridiculous, none of it confirmed. On the other hand, let's be objective. Not everything succeeded within the EET, and maybe that's why it's canceled today. We should have more connected the EET with the service and requirements of the state. We should have taken advantage of perhaps more of the fact that there was some information that the state could work with, and at a time when it offers certain services or when it requires something about companies, it could have been used more. On the other hand, the covid came. Yes, at a time when the EET really started to get to the point where it should expand, and we could put on more and more tools, so came the covid and unfortunately it stopped us in this. Next thing. This could have made it even further possible for companies to report more and more documents and so on. To put it simply, tie it up with the information systems of companies and so on, so that companies feel that EET is not just a tool for simplifying communication with the state in the sense that the state requires something, but in the sense that even those companies will be relieved. For another, we have not all agreed on how this should evolve further in terms of implementation for other groups of entrepreneurs. Even I didn't have a completely convincing position on this one myself. I wasn't sure if it was right after the first two groups, which were restaurants and merchants, to go further, to go to the craftsmen, to the smaller trades and so on. I understood on the one hand why the merchants and the innkeepers wanted it. On the other hand, I was not entirely convinced that every craftsman really had to use the EET. Perhaps this debate, which was not entirely clear, has contributed to some degree of uncertainty. And then we had to break it off at the time of the covid, which, of course, didn't help EET. But we couldn't do anything else at the time, because there were other waves and logically there was no way to start buying cash registers or various information technologies and so on. So the covid tied our hands so we wouldn't continue. Yes, but even if I take these, let's say, ills that have been tied to it, they clearly outweigh the benefits over the negatives. You, Minister and members of the government, could improve the system, you could expand it. You could say to a large extent what we may have failed to do, and use it politically well. You could have decided on other segments. Like not going into them, into the other segments. You could have motivated more to use this modern tool. You didn't do anything. Respectfully, you did. You did the worst you could do, and that's that you stepped on the brake, and you canceled the whole EET. Don't be mad at me, I don't take the reasons you say, I consider them a proxy. [[9.50 hours]] You are here, Minister of Finance, said that one of the main reasons is that entrepreneurs will not be considered dirty suspects. Alternatively, you said the other reasons, I listened here last time, that means the different costs of the state and so on, which are related to it. You know very well that no one considered entrepreneurs to be vulgar suspects. It's not punishment that we want the same conditions. This is a necessity for us to function. And you know very well that the business unions support this. And I consider you a rational man, Minister. We don't have to agree on a lot of things, but let's face it, what's the reason why the EET is being canceled, let all the people watching us hear it. The main reason is that you made a promise. You guys, like ODS or x-coals, made a promise to cancel the EET. And I have to say objectively, you have fulfilled that promise. The second reason was that you wanted to sink the flagship YES, and you will certainly succeed today. But what are we saying? You gave your own benefits beyond what those businessmen want. It's pure ideology, and I dare say it's political swamping. Why? And you need to know how it is. Out of the seven largest representatives of the business associations, seven expressed themselves in order to maintain the EET. Then why do we have them? Why do we have tripartites? Why do we have social dialogue? Why are we dealing with them because of all possible measures that are being discussed for the benefit or for the benefit of entrepreneurs if we do not give their opinion? I'd take it if the seven biggest ones were half-and-half, but the seven biggest ones were all clearly saying they wanted to keep it. You don't reflect the opinion of those involved, and on the contrary, you take part of the business sphere as a ram, but completely minority, which says: we don't like it. I understand that somebody doesn't like it, but that's why we have the deputies who put together the majority opinion. Chamber of Commerce, Association of Industry, Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, Confederation of Employers and Business Unions, Association of Trade and Tourism, Association of Hotels and Restaurants, Association of Czech Traditional Trade, all voted against the abolition. Why? Because the system worked. He wasn't without mistakes, but he proved himself. So let's go ahead and say what happens by canceling it today, or by not allowing it to go on, to be precise, because of course, it's cost some time now because of the covid. Undoubtedly, entrepreneurs will begin to move into the gray zone. All the more so, the government threw the tradesmen overboard, but also smaller entrepreneurs in the context of energy support. They will undoubtedly do that at this point they will begin to optimize their results for many and many reasons, simply failing today and this will be one of the tools they will undoubtedly use. The fact that less cards are starting to pay is already beginning. You're right, Minister, when you said the amount of cashless payments went off, that was at the time of the covid. Look today, and I'm sure you need to see it, I don't need any statistics on that, although it is when you go to the store and restaurants and it starts to appear more and more that they start not accepting cards or politely asking you not to pay with that card. You gotta see this. And don't tell me you don't see it, that's just the way it is. In a better case it recommends, in a worse case they stop taking cash (?). We have a luxurious restaurant under Rudolfinum, and this luxury restaurant, where you pay thousands of meals, doesn't take cards in the center of Prague! And the highlight of everything is that she bought an ATM on that ship to say no to the surprised strangers who come in there, we don't take cards here, go pick it out. And please ask nicely why they do so. It's very simple. I don't know, Minister or members of the government, if you've ever been to the SAPA market or if you even go there regularly. They ran into EET for us. We've been there several times. And they were pretty, I gotta say, okay, they got it going. Now go take a look. You may have noticed the biggest mall there. Among other things, there's almost everything in that mall, like -- it's called SAPA Macro, it's called Tamda Foods. You're really gonna buy everything on the so-called business list, which means you're gonna prove you're an entrepreneur, no problem at all. You know what the price difference is? Thirty percent! That's not enough. Thirty percent! And all right, everyone can do whatever they want. And you know what's interesting? They don't take cards. This hyper department store, simple, true, they don't take cards. This is the result of your government. Ask them why they don't take the cards! The state will lose 14 billion crowns. We can argue about whether it's 14, or not 14. I know, Minister, you're questioning this. But that's not the information I pulled out of my finger. That's what we were told at the conference here in the Chamber of Deputies by the Treasury staff in charge. And if you're saying that's not true, please submit an analysis that it's not, on paper, it's not 14, but maybe 10 or 8 billion. But in any case, now that we need every billion - and I understand that you need it when a whole range of things are canceled, where you can save money - are rejected by 14 billion crowns despite the fact that the entrepreneurs want it. Incomprehensible! In any case, you're going to completely break up the market at the moment. Unfortunately, you're throwing overboard those who believed they'd be a fair judge. It didn't happen, which we apologize for, because we were there when we introduced it. It has yet another dimension, and that is the dimension of digitalisation, which has been quite often tilted in the context of your pre-election rhetoric, within the framework of your programming statement. Phrases, promises. Let's look at the reality of everyday days after a year of governance. You're jamming the EET, which was electronic, or if we want a digital tool that could be further built on. You've lost faster data mailbox deployment. I only take digital tools for businessmen. This is where we argued about it, you don't want data boxes to be implemented the way we designed it, which means it would be faster. What have you done in relation to digitization, or to digitize relations between state and entrepreneur at the Ministry of Industry and Trade? There was a whole series of projects going on. We had it started. Minister Síkela devotes himself to everything, but certainly not to digitizing relations with businessmen. [[He speaks very strongly.]] Nothing's been done! Nothing at all. And if anything, tell me what the MIT's done to it in the last year. You've got good people leaving. Unfortunately, that's reality. One of the best people in the area of digitization in the Czech Republic, a former government agent who has introduced a number of instruments and has been highly respected by the professional public, is leaving - Mr Dzurilla. And who's staying here? Pirate weirdos, rolling around all ministries, whose biggest prerequisite for digitization of the state is that they are browsing well on social networks. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] And for them, you're gonna set up a Digital Information Agency, another newsroom, so we have somewhere to put them. That's the result of your digitization! However, let us conclude. You'll push through it, of course. You've got a hundred and eight, I'm not questioning it. And I admit one thing, it's democratic, if you want, we've lost. But once and for all, you're gonna sign up as the government that's sending us back to the '90s! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u19	The President of the Fiala shall give the next priority. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment on the SPD's cancellation of electronic sales records. I've been involved in the introduction of electronic sales records since the beginning. From the beginning it blocked the SPD, voted against, we did not want to introduce electronic records of sales, although it is very clear to us that taxes are to be paid. But we believe that in this case it is much easier to pay a flat-rate tax mainly for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs than to introduce an EET. The flat-rate tax means that you don't need any officials, any administration to manage it at the financial offices, you don't need anyone to control it, and you don't need complex systems to pay the flat-rate tax. It's a much simpler way to get to the money from businessmen. And unfortunately, every state, and the Czech Republic is not an exception, has only one income, and these are the taxes of citizens and companies, and should therefore provide people and companies with service, and not come up with something that would give them, say, sticks under their feet or other obstacles to their business. Because at the time of the introduction of the EET, there were too many obstacles for those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businessmen. [[10.00 hours]] Remember, it was a covid, it was an absolute disaster for small and medium-sized businessmen. Further, there were various other obstacles in terms of administration, where relatively large administrative claims were placed on the small ones or on the smallest ones. It was a VAT report. It was another thing, it was forbidden to smoke in small shops, restaurants, no vending machines. The little ones, especially the gastro-business people, lost a lot of their income. And the biggest problem was really the covid. Remember, the facilities were closed, the people were home, they had no income, it was a really big problem. For this reason, we have always voted against the introduction of electronic sales records, especially when we can deal with something like flat-rate tax. And we have pushed through, and I think it's right that flat-rate tax is a pretty good tool for the state to tax small and small businessmen and not have to do it through electronic sales records. I have been there since the beginning, and I also remember when Mr.Pilný was the Minister of Finance, for example, and on Czech television he said that 20 billion will be collected from electronic sales records. Twenty billion! Suddenly it was no longer 20 billion, it was 13 billion, and I am convinced that it was even less than 13 billion. And that, of course, is one side of the coin. That's one side of the coin. And the other side of the coin, of course, is how many small and medium-sized businessmen had to quit their business. And not only did they stop paying taxes and insurance to the state budget, but also how many went to social benefits, where the state budget had to spend money to bail them out. So it's not quite that simple. This means, on the one hand, yes, some income from the electronic record of sales to the state budget, on the other hand, the state must take care of those who have finished, of course not only thanks to EET, but on the basis of many things that happened at the time, and it was EET, it was covid, it was another report of administration and so on, so they had to take care of them. It is also necessary to include those people who took care of the EET in the financial offices, the administration, the officials. They have to be paid, too. So what was the result? It's hard to say. When my previous speaker Karel Havlíček here said that seven other business unions say to keep the EET, we in the SPD are saying yes, we will vote for the voluntary EET. And if anyone really wants to keep that volunteer, EET volunteering, they want to use it, the state should have a service for both citizens and entrepreneurs, and we will vote for the voluntary e-booking of sales so that those who really want it can use it. I think I have said the basic arguments why we have always voted, even in the last parliamentary term, as the SPD movement, against the introduction of electronic sales records and why today, as we have announced, we will vote in favour of its abolition. Because we believe that there are other, better, cheaper methods to collect taxes from small and small businesses that will not threaten them. Because today you can argue that although it is not covid, but we are back in an energy crisis, which will unfortunately crush all, and mostly those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who will have problems paying for those energies. For this reason, we believe that they need to be helped, because if they stop, leave, then resources other than the taxes of citizens and companies simply do not have this state and no other state has. They may still be capital revenues, but they are really minimal and cannot be seriously counted on to be able to address the state budget. So, as I said before, the SPD will vote today to cancel electronic sales records, and that doesn't change anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u21	The rapporteur, Mr Munzar, will be next in line with the priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I originally volunteered that I wanted to comment on the amendment to the voluntary EET, which was concluded by my colleague, Mr Fiala, through you, and perhaps here to say some of the arguments that lead us, that this proposal, unlike perhaps the SPD, and maybe I would ask them to consider it, we will not support it, the proposal for a voluntary EET. But I'll start with something else. I listened very carefully to the two opening performances and I was interested in the performance by my colleague Schillerová. And the very first sentence - that this will be the only completed item of the Government's programming declaration. The very first sentence of speech and the very first false. And that's how it all went down. If you just look at the tiny cut of the government's programming statement, not all of it, but just the little cut, the section called Staff support and business, so there are other points. Yesterday the Senate approved the tax package, which means fulfilling the promise to increase the limit for mandatory VAT registration. There is an increase in flat-rate tax, which means reducing bureaucratic burdens in the administration of taxes and charges. There are modifications to the inspection report, which means that the next item of the Government's programming declaration, which promised to modify the control report parametrically. So really the first sentence of the speech, it's the only point, so the first sentence of the first false. And this is actually how almost all of your speech, my colleague, went on through you. Here it has been said from your mouth that it is a basic digital tool for simplifying communication with entrepreneurs and for balancing the business environment. We've been hearing those words from you from the beginning that it's a tool for balancing the business environment, and we're repeatedly telling you that it's not. You used the digital tool purely as a tool of control and restriction of individual entrepreneurs. Why do we say that you have created an atmosphere of preventive state distrust against entrepreneurs here? Because you introduced digital online control of those entrepreneurs who had to be constantly connected, otherwise they were threatened with a fine, connected to the Financial Administration, and at the same time you combined with the introduction of this online control a lot of other new necessary obligations and fines, such as a fine up to 50,000 for not posting the EET table. How does such a fine equalize the business environment? You paid fines for absolute absurdity - for a comprehensive receipt for spending the table. How did the businessman circumvent tax obligations? How did the fine for issuing the summary receipt equalize the business environment? When I asked you that in the past period, when the EET was still working, then the Minister, today Mrs Schillerová, by your means, replied that the issue of a mass receipt denies the fundamental principle of EET, that is to get relevant information about the individual sales of the taxpayer. So what kind of tax-paying tool, balancing the business environment? Purely a tool of control and restriction. By the way, for you and for the public - do you know how many checks in those two and a half years, different control purchases? 247 529. These checks checked not only whether a receipt was issued, but also these other pointless things. 22 767 fines were granted. It was these fines that were needed for not transferring time in the EET from summer to winter, or for a minute difference between taking sales and registering. That really doesn't equal the business environment. [[10.10 hours]] It generally straightens the business environment with brutal regulation is already a contradiction in itself, because the best way to grow private activities is a liberal environment. Regulation, which means large funds, is, of course, a lower burden for large entrepreneurs and businesses, but far greater for small ones. And that in itself creates inequality and unfairness. You once again presented the tens of billions that EET was supposed to bring. EET revenue, fair and square, doesn't exactly count. Your voters will probably trust your numbers, our voters will trust our numbers. But they could trust the reports of the Supreme Audit Office, which you're presenting and which previously presented by the Ministry of Finance, said the following in his reports. In the report on taxes - I would like to quote - after the introduction of the electronic record of sales, the development of tax collection was consistent with GDP developments, which can be interpreted as having a rather limited impact on the overall collection of taxes. Or the SAO's report on the State Final Account for 2017: The estimated impacts of the measures introduced differed significantly in the various documents of the Ministry of Finance. The credibility of these data is questionable because different values are published in the materials for which the method of calculation is not explained and are not supported by an analysis of specific data. So, actually, from your digital tool for balancing the business environment that was supposed to bring tens of billions to new schools, kindergartens, and maybe the skating hall for Sáblíková, there was really nothing left of it. There's a fine left over. There is an unfair environment and an unfair attitude of the state towards entrepreneurs. You guys were talking about communication between businessmen and feedback between businessmen and the state that EET allows. I wonder how the allocation of the fiscal identification code on the receipt improves communication between the entrepreneur and the state, which we will then get to the voluntary EET. As far as the voluntary EET is concerned, in order to get to the original meaning of my performance, we were here last time at second reading and today heard how entrepreneurs want it, how they got used to it, how important it is to them. By the way, my colleague Havlíček, by your means, mentioned here that there was no clear extension to the next fields, to the third and fourth waves, but you approved it, so if we did not cancel the EET today, another 300,000 tradesmen would be burdened with additional high costs. But the businessmen gave us their answer. We have been communicating all along not only with the heads of the unions that you mentioned here, but especially with field entrepreneurs. Let's look again at the numbers of how out of 200,000 originally registered in the EET today we have something below 40,000 who remained in the system. This gives us a clear message about whether or not entrepreneurs want a voluntary EET. And the voluntary EET. Each expenditure of the state budget should be assessed according to three criteria, and so the Supreme Audit Office always considers it: whether this expenditure is effective, whether it is economical and whether it is efficient. We did not find an answer to either of these questions in the voluntary EET. For the state, it would only cost the mere maintenance of CZK 120 million per year, but the state would only obtain incomplete data for which it would not be used. And as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, the cashiers that they have in their businesses, through which they control their employees, for example, will no longer be connected to the Financial Administration and will not get the fiscal identification code. So it doesn't really make sense to us. And the state can't even offer any service for being voluntarily connected to the EET, because you can't turn incomplete data into, for example, a tax return. You can't even guarantee it because it's voluntary that they'll be released from the controls. Just every spending of the state budget has its own effect, its own purpose. And that's not gonna do it. That is why we will not vote for a voluntary EET. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u23	Now we have a whole series of factual points. First factual point - Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. There is no way I can agree and I want to respond to Mr Munzar's speech through Mr President. I would like to point out the programming statement - I hope that Mr Munzar will listen to me carefully now - so I hope that this time will be added by Mr President, because he has certainly read the programming statement very thoroughly when he says something here, and the programming statement clearly states that this government will fight the grey economy. [[- I won't.]] If the battle with the gray economy is that I'm going to cancel something that worked here and that levelled the gray environment, then please write down the things that you're going to do and not do the exact opposite of what you're going to do. I'm really wondering that today, at this time, at this difficult time, if citizens are watching this, they have to stay behind their heads. People are looking for every crown. People see that we have one of the highest inflations within the EU countries. Look at the price of food, fuel, and so on. And you come up with the fact that you're going to cancel something that didn't just level up the business environment, but it had revenue to the state budget. And the money could have been given to people, it could have been given to organizations. You're jamming something that worked. We're going back to the old ways. And you're only doing it because the last government came up with it. It's really a very sad story we're having here today. And I have to say, the fact that you don't respect that it wants it to continue to work, the Chamber of Commerce, the Union of Small and Medium Enterprises... They're not even partners to you? You can't even hear their words? [[President: Time, Madame.]] I think there's no way we were supposed to discuss EET here today, but something completely different. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Another comment will be made by Vice-President Havlíček. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u26	Thank you. Mr Munzar, through Mr President, I respect one thing in principle, and the same with Minister Stanjura, you have the same consistent view over the past seven years, since it began to be done. We have a completely different opinion. We try not to look at it ideologically. We're trying to look at it practically. We've been trying to tell you a whole series of reasons why we don't think it's good for us to throw the companies that want it overboard. Because it is not true, Mr Munzar, through Mr President, that they are expressing their views, or that this is the opinion of the heads of the unions and associations. That's not their opinion. That's their member base's opinion. I was there myself. I have to say objectively, not the entire membership base, that's true. But that's what the general meetings of the Member States are for, where it's always been very intense. And if, of the seven largest seven, he tells me that they want it, then, Mr Member, through Mr President, there is nothing to discuss. There's nothing to discuss. Either we accept that someone here is defending the interests of businessmen, and then we're going to follow their ideas a little bit, and the seven of them are clear, or we're going to try to take advantage of individual entrepreneurs, and you're going to find them who don't like it, and you're going to film it on them and you're going to point out the poor guy who just paid for it. And I'm sure you'll be right. But either we take the majority, and that's the fundamental majority and the views of these unions, or we don't. And what's important is one more thing. I take it the fines were high, and I might not like it either, but that's no reason to cancel. You guys had a chance to make it better. You could have come up with the fact that you would reduce the fines, that you wouldn't be so demanding. And you could have set the whole system differently - better, more comfortable. But that's what I blame you most: you could have done that in peace, and you destroyed the whole thing, canceled it. And that's what I blame you for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping time. The next one, with a factual remark, will be made by the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u28	So here I am listening to touching stories about how many tens of billions this has brought to the state budget. It's not true. And secondly, let's ask, who shut down VAT in March 2020? [[Mrs Schiller is correcting from the scene.]] VAT, I'm sorry, EET. Whose government proposed - we supported it, of course, are we consistent in this - even for 2022? Your government, dear members of the ANO delegation club. First of all. Secondly, the helplessness of the voluntary EET system is documented in the amendment that says: The financial administration - now aside from the hundreds of millions of costs - will allow someone to send data somewhere. What's next? What benefit does the businessman get from sending it? We don't know. What did we suggest to motivate him? Nothing! As of 31 October this year, Mrs Schillerová, through the Vice-President, does not send 60 per cent of entrepreneurs, as I mistakenly use this mild word - you mistakenly state in your amendment. There are 38 123 of them. If you ask the Treasury, we'll tell you 38 123. If I were to assume that this is 60 per cent of EET's taxpayers, we'd get a very low number of EETs that don't correspond to reality. So why do you write 60 percent voluntarily uses it when it's about a third? And a third isn't 60 percent, at least if I remember math. I cannot support this amendment because it makes no sense. For hundreds of millions of crowns, we will build an environment where some entrepreneurs will send some data, and they have no effect on it. And the stories about how they invested, and now they can't use it, they're lying. [[Time, Minister.]] Lying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek will take the next step, and President Schillerová will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, members of the government, I would have responded to the performance by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Well, it's best to say something that didn't come out and then question it. It just didn't come from Mr. Munzar here that we would have fulfilled all the points of the programming statement, but he argued that this would be the only one that was fulfilled. So you guys assured me that we didn't meet anybody else, but here was the debate that we did the only one. And that's what my colleague Munzar questioned. So you made an absolute argument foul here. That means you created an enemy that doesn't exist, and you questioned something that didn't even come out here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for holding time. Another, with the President's point of fact, Schillerová, will be prepared by Mr Lochman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u32	Of course, that's all you're gonna do when you're done at the end of this day. Because the others that my honored colleague Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová was talking about, we prepared for you! You just sent it here, that's all! So these aren't any of your worked points, whether it's raising the VAT limit, whether it's just a shift in the flat-rate tax. And you guys just screwed up because you turned it into an absolutely unattractive institute, I mean, flat-rate tax now. There. Shut down the EET. That wasn't a shut-down. We made the EET voluntary, and for one simple reason, and here I explained it - because almost all the establishments were closed back then. Those involved in the EET were all closed for covid. She was just here, on the one hand, because the third, fourth wave that had to be prepared for it had completely different concerns, and the first two, they ended up with so-called registration data from the authorization... now I'm saying it right, authority, which could actually have been three years at the most. I've explained it here, and I've explained that you don't care that when there's a hole in your roof, you just don't care about English lawn. That was it. And I don't know who you're attacking here, Minister. An amendment with your kind permission was made by colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. I talked to them about it. There was no other way to write it. And perhaps, Mr Munzar, through the Vice-President, you could come to the seminar by representatives of all the unions and chambers, all those who were there at the seminar organized by my colleague Patrik Nacher, one by one, whether it was the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Minčič and others, expressed a positive response to at least the voluntary EET. [[Time, Madam President!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. And now Mr Lochman will speak with a point of fact, Mrs Mr Mr Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u34	Good morning, colleagues. Only one very short de facto for me. Mrs Vildumetzová, through the President, spoke here about how much she is making everything more expensive. Yes, it's a very complicated time. However, you also said that look at how much fuel they're increasing. So only if we're talking about arguments here, so that it's right that we don't lie here. Over the last month, the oil has gone down 2.5 kroner, and in the last month, the gas has gone down. I've been looking at media information. On the Czech Television portal, you have that petrol has reduced by a crown. And I also looked at your iDNES portal, where it says that Hungary has problems with the oil and petrol outage. So just when we're talking about it, let's talk about really specific things. Look at the odds now. , where you have the exact development of fuel, and for example for diesel, it's cheaper than it was 26. 8. Let's just talk facts here. We've been told how we're supposed to be ceiling oil prices here, and they've fallen over the last month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u35	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will make another comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u36	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I don't know what to say about the ones who were performing here right now, what to say. First, the Minister of Finance will say that we're telling touching stories here. No, we're telling the truth here. You want to cancel something that worked and had an income in the state budget, and the Chamber of Commerce doesn't want it. The Union of Small and Medium Enterprises and others do not want this. You don't even want to support volunteering. That's the truth. I don't know what's wrong with EET being connected to the tax administration. I don't know what was wrong with that. We want an equal business environment, a control report was introduced, an EET was introduced. I don't understand. If Mr. Bělobrádek here, of course, has been performing on my posts several times, I would recommend that he read the programming statement properly. What you wrote in it and what you fill in it. So far, I haven't noticed that after a year of your government, someone would come in here and evaluate the programming statement, like the last government did. She sat down to the program statement and said, "We did this, we didn't do this." You haven't done it once in a year. And if the Member, through the President, boasts here by reducing petrol and diesel by two crowns? Is that a big amount of money? Do you think these people will feel that? So I'm convinced that they won't feel it at all, and that the reduction in the price of diesel and petrol is very small and you should do more. You're not doing anything. That's the truth. And all you come up with is to cancel something that works and has income in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u37	Mrs Balaštíková will make another statement in the order of factual remarks. Mrs Peštová will be ready. Madam, your two minutes on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u38	Hello again, colleagues. For the sake of completeness of the information submitted, I would say that on several servers, in the Hospodářské noviny, there are various votes of citizens and various correspondents on the List. I don't think they're the media that just love the YES movement, and imagine that on all those servers all those correspondents are above 60 percent that they want the EET. You can check it out, it's running now. So why do 60 percent of people want it? Why don't we do it for them? Because it's democracy, what most people want, that's what we should do! No? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u39	The next one will be Mrs Peštová. Before he gets to the speaker's desk, I'll read more apologies. Mr Bžoch apologizes from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. for work reasons. Mr Janulík Miloslav, on a working day. Mr Kašník Pavel, on a full working day, Mr Lacina Jan, from 11.40 to 12.40 for working reasons. Mr. Svoboda Pavel from 9.30 to 11.30 for work reasons. Minister Baxa Martin from 10.30 to 11.15 for work reasons. Now, Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I'm not going to say anything more about the petrol, because one crown has been reduced by petrol, so look what has become more expensive than the next. So I'm sure I won't be calling out of this fame. But I'm more interested in the speech by Mr. Bělobrádek here. I'd like to ask the WHO, where did the change happen? Because you were the ones who voted for the EET in the coalition that was here. And where did the reenactment of KDU happen that suddenly says it's wrong for EET to vote in favour before and you were actually against part of your coalition today, and now you're saying that EET is wrong again? So where did the change happen that suddenly changed your mind? Or is it about what they say about when they don't really care, they go with everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u41	Hello, dear. I took over the management of the meeting and thank you for keeping time in this factual remark. And now Mr Pavel Bělobrádek is signed in with his de facto Member, Mr Šimon Heller will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová. I respond to you when you're talking nonsense. You said something that wasn't true, so you can't blame me for reacting to it because you were talking about something else entirely. It's the same as my colleague...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u43	Please, through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u44	I'm not calling her! [[Okay.]] I didn't address anyone. Just like Mrs Peštová, she said: well, petrol is, but it's different. It's like one talking about pears and the other talking about carrots. Well, that's probably the same logic. In addition, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová here spoke of the introduction of the EET by the previous government. It's not true. It was Sobotkův, as my colleague Peštová rightly said. When we were in Sobotkův's government, we were looking for a finance minister who was never able to give us the relevant information about how much it would pay. I'd like to see how much it's actually worth. The benefit on the economic side is quite dubious, it has never been reasonably proven that it has had an effect. And we were the only ones in the coalition who respected the government's programming statement, because it said that it would only be on selected parts of the economy, while the ANO and the ČSSD were violating the programming statement and wanted to implement it across the board, which we rejected. Thanks to us, phase one, two, three, four was created there. Three, four weren't introduced, and that was because it didn't make sense for a guy who went into the woods with a saw to show his income then as an EET. That means we're consistent about this, and unlike you, we didn't break the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for keeping time. And now, with the factual remark of Mr Šimon Heller, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said by Mrs Balaštíková that the democratic majority is deciding and that we should look at the websites and follow them accordingly. I recommend, for example, a vote on Parliamentary Leaves, which we could also vote on. The democratic majority that manifests itself in the elections decides. She made the decision, and by the way, she decided that the current coalition here has 108 votes. Perhaps there is no point in mentioning that Mrs Balaštíková was not elected in those democratic elections and joined as an alternate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, and then a number of other factual points were accumulated. So, the Vice-President's registered priority right has to wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Once again, on Mr Bělobrádek, through Madam President. I'm recommending that he re-examine the programming statement. I merely said that if anyone has in the programming statement that they will fight the grey economy, I believe that the fight against the grey economy was the introduction of a control report and the introduction of an EET. Yes, I'm sorry I told the last government I didn't tell Sobotkův's government. You also sat in the Sobotka government, Mr Belbrádek, through Madam President, so it was you who approved the EET House of Deputies. The fact that income to the state budget was not now because it was covid, that therefore EET was suspended, but that means that it was voluntary, as we want it to continue, so it is proven that the income was about 13 billion. And since we now have so high inflation because of this government, which is climbing to 15, 16, 17 percent, that income within the EET would be even higher. And when Mr. Lochman comes to me, who tells me and shows me an amazing graph of how the prices of petrol and diesel have decreased, he probably doesn't go to people. So everything's great, everything's flooded with the sun, people are all so happy with the prices and the margins on the gas stations. I would understand if you put forward a proposal here that addresses the very high prices of petrol and diesel or, perhaps, high prices of energy. But really you at this time, at this difficult time, here you will present something that had income in the state budget and which had an equal business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for keeping time. And so far, there have been a shrink of seven factual remarks, where Mr Pavel Bělobrádek is the first to appear, and then Mrs Margita Balaštíková can prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, through Madam President. I know the government's programming statement, but you read the log you just said. You responded to something that didn't come out here, and the factual point is to respond to something that was said here. So you said "thesis," and you said "antithesis," and the thesis wasn't supported by what the colleague said. So that's the first thing. Second thing. I was explaining. And the fact that money was collected thanks to EET, it was collected in taxes, that's for sure, but if it was extra because of EET, it was never proven and never confirmed by the Ministry of Finance's analysis! So don't say it. You guys always make something up, and then you start saying something else here. And you start with someone saying something that nobody said, and you're gonna question that. It's a straw shot. It's nothing else! There's no logic in that! And then I'll stop performing, because some things you have to take as they are, either we use logic or we don't. And it's the same as when you say how it is with diesel, it's not enough, but it was about how it is in Hungary, and Hungary you were setting an example. You're moving away from what is, and you'll always find something sideways, so it's the reaction to it, but if there's anything... And I also have to go to my colleague Balaštíková. The voice of the people is not the voice of God. We're in representative democracy, and if we put in, if Agrofert is to be nationalized, maybe there would be 70 percent. I don't know. But I don't think we can make that decision in politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u51	I also thank you for keeping time. And now, with her factual Mrs Balaštíková, then Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u52	Hello again, third time, fourth time. I'm sorry, colleagues, I probably had it - under time pressure I said it so that it was misunderstood by you. I didn't think we should totally stick to this democracy, but I just wanted to add to the data that most of these citizens now, now voting, and EET would want to. And to my predecessor, Mr Heller, about how - through you, Madam President - I was elected: I think you have shown me how pathetic it is in you, man!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u53	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to see Mr Heller. I'm glad you're here to mention the Parliamentary Leaves, because just recently we've read that we're the ugly ones - what were we? - disinformers, desolators, and I don't know what we're dez-- just because we share Parliamentary Leaves. But you're pumping them! It's nice to know! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u55	Please address me through me. Thank you. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be prepared, also with due cause. Then the word will come out for the Vice-President. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u56	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary and Minister, I save most of my remarks for my speech. However, as has been said, I really intend to respond only to what was here. And I want to respond to the remark, through you, Madam Vice-President, to Mr Heller. One. Screaming is not an argument. Please don't bother my ears. And two. I have not yet experienced anyone questioning or losing the parliamentary mandate created by the succession. During the last parliamentary term, for example, colleague Jakob became a Member instead of Mr Kalousek, but that someone would say it on a microphone and say "look, and you didn't get here" just because Kalousek resigned? I'm sorry, I haven't met him here yet. I think it was totally inappropriate. And the mandate either is or it isn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for keeping time. Now Vice-President Karel Havlíček, with his own facts and then the Member, is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. Mr Heller, through Madam President, no one questioned that you had the right to do so. I was the one who made it clear in my post. It's democratic, and you can make up your mind. But we're questioning another thing. If you argue that this is a restrictive tool for entrepreneurs, and of the seven largest associations, the association is quite the opposite, we're just saying that it's a false argument and that you don't follow what those entrepreneurs really want. And you can decide what you want. That's all. Nothing more, nothing less. On top of that, please, Hungary. You blame us for reading the headlines, but you're acting exactly the same way. Because the only person who solves Hungary's problem is the Czech Republic. It doesn't matter at all to Maďar. I've reached out to Hungarian government officials, and they really have no problem. The fact that, on several dozen pumps, MOL, their pumps, the village pumps, which didn't practically work, reduced deliveries not because they had little to price, but because the Rus bombed the pipeline that leads to Hungary, and paradoxically at the same time they shut down the refineries, is the reason that it saves a little bit more, but it didn't happen to anyone in Hungary so that it wouldn't refuel. They don't have the slightest problem with it, and it's really only being dealt with here. So please read it more carefully, or check the Hungarian newspaper, or have it translated, or make a phone call. You have enough tools in the government to check with government officials. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Hubert Lang is registered, and then we have one more factual one. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't want to perform because I'm not an expert on EET, but I would also like to respond here, through you, to a colleague named Heller. We're here to bite down a lot. Remember that the YES movement has 72 Members. We are the strongest member of the MP's club. We all got a mandate. We have never questioned any mandate that arose here in the House. This also means the mandate which KDU-ČSL has. But I would like to say that I beg you, colleagues, even if you weren't stuck in that five-blind, you're not in control here today. What are the preferences of the YES movement at present, and what are the preferences of the party whose MP here is attacking the proper mandate of our colleague? Remember, sweep up on your own doorstep when you're yelling something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for keeping time. And with a factual remark, Mr Šimon Heller. The Vice-President is still registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u62	Some might think that false statements were made here. I'm being consensual and gentle about this. I'm sure you weren't just paying attention. I didn't question any mandate. I've stated the facts. And just as the facts have been raised here about the arrival of a colleague from the TOP 09 in the past period, yes, those are the facts, so please don't worry about them. I say we listen to each other. What I said is facts. Democratic elections have taken place. And, by the way, in order to respond to my colleague Lang, through Madam President, polls do not decide again. Not even the ones that are posted in your media. They decide the election. And they decided that you had 70... Please, Madam President, to calm down a colleague here who, a moment ago, over there... He was taping his head in front of the House, and now he's yelling at me, so I'm asking you to yell at him afterwards. Thank you. [[Laughs from the benches of the ANO Members.]] Or maybe she made him act in a manner consistent with the House. So -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u63	Ambassador, I'll step in. I don't notice every tap on my head.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u64	I understand that. So just to finish it. They decide the election. KDU-ČSL has 23 Members and the YES movement has 72 Members. I respect that, I wouldn't question it. Oh, please, let's stick to the facts. The election took place somehow, everyone was elected somehow. Someone was jumping and somebody wasn't jumping. Someone's been circled upstairs, someone's gotten here as an understudy. Those are the facts. Let's stick to the facts and listen to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u65	Thank you for keeping time. I'd just like to remind you, we have written down with the facts, so it's the last one from the point of view. I just really want to remind you, it's already a large number of factual, it really needs to be addressed to the previous speakers, or, therefore, really clarify when there was inaccuracy. And I would really like us to get back to those who are properly logged in. Mrs Berenika Peštová now wants to take action and then Mr Vít Vomáčka can prepare himself. Just really, I'm saying, let's respond. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I, too, would like to respond once again to Mr Heller. Mr. Ambassador, something like that, you're a man and you can hold on to something. I also have to endure a lot of laughs and banging and slapping on my head, and I do not sue, Mr Member, through Madam President. [[Fun and applause for members of the YES.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u67	Thank you for keeping time. And Mr Vít Vomáčka, Mr Vít Vomáčka, is now next with his own decision, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I am not going to pay attention to my colleague Heller, I really am not. But it has been said many times that they are looking at us, and you, citizens, always call on us to watch us act. Dear citizens, please don't follow this. That's beneath us. And it doesn't matter if it's from the coalition or from the opposition. I'm a decent person here, and if I want to go to a colleague, I don't know his name, it really doesn't belong in the House knocking on my forehead or anything. I say it with humility, I do not attack. Please, let's get back to the EET and stop with the attacks. It's not worthy of this honourable House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u69	Thank you, colleague. And now, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u70	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'd like to say that the citizens couldn't watch part of this meeting today. I wanted to say that the rapporteur is not here, but I see him now. However, I do not see the Minister. I see, of course, ministers who are not finance ministers. But maybe it would be appropriate, because we're getting closer to the block of actual performances if we were in complete lineup.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Yes, I'll repeat the request, apparently the Minister is in the foyer for a moment to return to the hall. And now, with Mrs Margita Balaštíková's actual application. He's downloading. And please, from the point of view, your actual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the actual plane. We're dealing with EET here, really don't get personal. I am talking to most colleagues, and I am speaking at the door of this hall very rationally, very decently, very humbly. Let us return to this in the Chamber of Deputies. It's just a thing. We're talking about EET, we're talking about some kind of system here. I remember very well what we were dealing with here. Whoever has an EET doesn't have an EET. And I say, one day, a government coalition will come up with what is absolutely common in the world, and that means the limit of cash payment. We don't need the EET when we say we have a limit on cash payments. That's it. And if we go into the bank card system and stuff like that, we really don't need this system. It's a thing of Italy, Sweden and so on. Try to remove 500 euros in Italy at the hotel and see what happens to you. I suppose some colleagues were there, and they know that they can't, that it's up to 100 euros. [[10.50 hours]] So you're jamming the EET principle today, and then you're going to introduce it in a different form again. This will simply happen, whether it will be the will of Czech legislators or it will be the will of the European Union. However, the substance of the arguments where we say it has meaning, in some way it would have logic, there are some requests, the other side says it doesn't matter, and so on, it's just a factual argument and we stick to it, we don't need to personally attack, it's completely unnecessary, it's a fight of opinions, not a fight of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, too. Now we can get to the registered Vice-President Klára Dostálová. Please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u74	Thank you so much for the floor, Madam President. So I would really like to get back to the point, because I have spent my whole life focusing on tourism and I have to say that the business sector in the field of tourism does not really matter. Of course, they try and fight at least to keep it on a voluntary basis. So I've drawn a few facts to have a really argumentative conversation here. The first fact is that by 2020, the EET worked in 17 countries of the European Union - Slovakia, Austria, Germany, Poland, Hungary, Belgium, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Sweden, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta and Cyprus. Next, the receipts still count in 2022 Financial management from its cashier systems approximately 38 percent of entrepreneurs from the gastro, accommodation services and shops group. 31 percent of tourism entrepreneurs felt no significant change with the introduction of the EET, while 23 percent of these entrepreneurs improved significantly after the introduction of the EET business situation in tourism. Some two thirds of Čech perceive the introduction of EET as positive measures, which I also think is an important argument. The Association of Hotels and Restaurants of the Czech Republic supports e-booking of sales from the outset as one of the tools for introducing fair conditions on the market. According to experts from the Moor Czech Republic advisory group, the state will cut off the potential tool for the easy allocation of subsidies following the amount of registered sales and eliminate the already built-up trusted receipt repository, which could be the basis for standardising the electronic receipt. There is a lot of talk in the area of entrepreneurs, or in this sphere of tourism entrepreneurs, about the so-called return to the nineties, because restaurants will have less willingness to support cash-free payments. On this occasion, I would like to ask the honourable House if you were guests of any restaurant or pub in the next few days and if you have met the fact that you will be told "We don't take cards" when you enter. I think it's a really bad signal. That's a bad signal. We are in the 21st century, we should try not to let people who are employed in these restaurants go back to those unfortunate 1990s when they were essentially paid on hand, so, of course, they didn't have access to mortgages, they didn't have access to credit, and especially for early young families it was a big problem. Another fact. In hospitality and catering, sales rose by 20 percent immediately after the introduction of the EET, and this has the positive effect on employees' payouts in this sector, the weakening of black payouts on the hand, and, of course, it has a positive effect on better protection of employees. Thanks to the EET, the controls have been significantly improved and targeted. While in previous years the number of tax controls was around 80 000 per year, in 2019 the number of checks decreased to 67 000, which represents a reduction in the number of checks by around 15 000 per year. However, many experts and restaurants themselves disagree with the cancellation. It would be right to maintain the EET on a voluntary basis, with entrepreneurs using the system having some advantages from the state. For example, the State would tell them indirectly that it trusts them, says Luboš Kastner of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. Currently, when the system is suspended, over 200,000 entrepreneurs continue to voluntarily record their sales. With rewards from the state, many others could return to the system. The benefit could be, for example, that these entrepreneurs would not be on the lookout for the Financial Administration, or at a time when measures similar to those in the pandemic would have to be implemented in some way again, it would have been the registered entrepreneurs who would have been given preferential compensation from the state for making their income transparently known by Mr Kastner of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. Mr Miroslav Lukeš, who runs the Czech fintex association, is also convinced that the abolition of the EET would be a wasted opportunity. It is an instrument that has been adopted by a large proportion of entrepreneurs and which has brought a number of benefits. Rather, the state should look for ways to use this system as part of digitization. I could imagine using the system in the idea of a digital tax return. This already works in different countries. We say how much we digitize the Czech Republic, while we plan to basically shut down one part. According to him, many establishments worked in front of the EET with only paper and pencil. The electronic register of sales in the cash registers was their first and found out how much the state was being robbed, but also how much the waiters were robbing them, how many opportunities for their business they were missing, meaning Mr Lukeš, who runs the Fintex Association in the Czech Republic. Even Mr. Petr Menclík, the manager of the cashier Touchkačka, believes that voluntary registration can really help open another path to digitizing business. I can imagine how to digitize administrative activities or introduce a voluntary, state-funded and secure digital receipt register using an existing system, saving millions of tons of unnecessarily printed cash registers and terminals that end up in the garbage bin in the vast majority of cases. Cashiers already know how to send digital data, says Mr. Menclík. On the basis of all these arguments, which are normally available, of course, even in the media space, I am thinking about why the government says with one breath that it needs to get money into the state budget, even with tax increases hanging in the air, which has obviously been declared through the mouth of the Deputy Prime Minister, while, on the other hand, it lets a significant source of revenue flow between its fingers into the state budget. And it doesn't matter if we talk about four billion or 13 billion. I don't think in the context of the state budget it's possible to have a billion here, a billion there, but of course, every billion is good, and so is every million as good. It would be really very good to consider not having to raise taxes to people, so that we really first look at what we can do to increase resources into the state budget, that is, let tax increases really go beyond the extreme option. But if we sweep these projects under the carpet, we won't let them do it on a voluntary basis so that entrepreneurs can do it themselves, it's the wrong way. She's either one, raising taxes, or the other, cutting mandatorial expenses. And of course, only this reduction in these controls will lead to large savings within the state budget. Therefore, I would very much like to ask the honourable Chamber of Deputies to really consider these steps. Let us not make politics so that we must at all costs destroy what the previous government has been doing here. This is not the way in the right direction and it certainly does not lead to the development of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. And now we can proceed to the Volný Member's contribution, which is further duly applied for. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, fellow Members, I will not speak for long, because I think that everything relevant here has been said. The facts raised here by President Alena Schillerová and Vice-President Karel Havlíček, and, after all, by Mrs Vildumetzová, are of no interest to anyone here. I will certainly no longer, like the Vice-President who spoke before me, beg that honored colleagues from the coalition take their senses and revise their position on the electronic record of sales, because I know that this is completely unnecessary. [[11.00 hours]] I had to get out, and I believe that you guys who were here last term, you understand that, because I've been through my time with EET. I believed that, and to this day, I believe that this is the way in the right direction, and that is why I am a little sorry about the arguments completely politicized and dull. When a fellow rapporteur of this press wants to prove that the EET did not bring any money into the state budget, he will use a 2017 SAO report when the EET ran for a year, and this report says that it is not yet, that it is not a credible argument, or the figures that it has brought something to it, and it goes away at all, that in 2022 there was an asset in this House, where directly a member of the Ministry of Finance said that it brings 14 million a year. But if it's 14 million, or 8 million, or 5 million, that's probably not relevant. I'm just saying, even if it's worth $3 million... $3 billion, sorry, I'm talking about billions. If it's worth $3 billion, it's worth it. This government has written in its shield: the fight against the grey economy and the fight for digitalisation. By canceling the EET, he's basically treading both of his passwords. Now I get to what I don't understand at all. The term "dirty suspects" was invented by colleagues from the current government coalition when they argued that we were setting up an EET against them. They still use the term "bullshit suspects," but we never said it. We didn't do EET to raise dirty suspects. I don't think the only last businessman in this republic should be a dirty suspect. Colleagues, that's your term, you use it, and you answer to businessmen and businessmen why you use that term. We introduced the EET because it was introduced before us by 17 states of the European Union, among them Sweden, Germany, Italy, Slovakia, and these are states which do not consider their entrepreneurs and businessmen to be vulgar suspects. EET has its meaning, it has its meaning. And it is true that it will lose its meaning when 95 percent of payments are made via a credit card, then it will really lose its meaning. Now I think that's what it means. The second such contradiction and the thing I can't understand... After I described the term "dirty suspects," it's that the coalition is always swaying, doing it for someone, wanting to ease someone's work, and wanting to stop throwing sticks at someone. In fact, those who are said to be throwing sticks under their feet argue loudly and repeatedly that they want EET, that they have already been introduced, that the original investments are paid off and that the EET suits them. Gentlemen, really tell me, who do you want to stop throwing sticks at? And the rapporteur, I don't know if the Minister was there, but I think the heads of these organizations also had contributions to the Committee on Budgets. They must have heard it there. I had a radio interview with an honored fellow vice president this morning, so we did a little digging. I think it's very correct. But Professor Pavel spoke after us, spoke to the chairman of the largest association of the Union of Restauranters and Traders. And all of them in one word, and there were a lot of contributions from restaurants and retailers, saying, we don't see any reason to cancel the EET, and it's not the way in the right direction. True, both the innkeepers and Professor Pavel said that he could imagine living with it without an EET, but neither of them said that this was the way in the right direction. And I think that this is something that citizens should be able to perceive. I really think that's a purely political decision. It's just dogmatism, destroying any trace that might remain of the previous government, I don't want to tell Prime Minister Babiš, because it was already for Prime Minister Sobotka's Prime Minister, but I just don't see any other way or any other reason. And it is a little bit trivial and sad if decisions are made by the will of 108 Members without anyone hearing what the decision-makers really want. It seems to me a little - please, maybe the comparison will limp a little bit, forgive me. It seems to me like when we took thirty, or you voted, colleagues from the coalition, that the Castle would take CZK 30 million off the budget just because you had reservations about the head of the lana business, and no one ever thought about the deer and the animals that live there need to eat anything, and by taking away CZK 30 million, you said, "You know what? You won't be eating anything for three months now, die here, and maybe we'll give you something again in January. It's just absolutely incomprehensible to me that just because I don't like someone I think somewhere I think someone should do something else or something else they have, we're just gonna take away $30 million from this business. I say, it may be a limping comparison, but it has a common denominator, that at all, but none of you are even in mind or at heart the consequence why I'm doing it, who I'm going to hurt, who I'm going to help, but it's just a dogma, it's Babišův's flagship, it needs to be sunk and trampled into the ground. Colleagues, I'm not gonna hold this up any longer. I know this is completely unnecessary. There's five and a half of you, and you're not gonna change your mind. But I'd really like us to come back... as my colleague here, Vomáčka. He said - he's not here - that we shouldn't knock on our foreheads. Well, I guess he's right. It is true that much greater democracy and the cradle of democracy are in England, where they even fight, but they are basically right. But what we should go back to, please, is that we should make laws here and make decisions for the well-being of our people who voted for us here. And now they're just staring at what's going on and what about the mandates they gave us, how we treat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. And a point of fact was raised, please, by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u78	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would only react briefly to my previous speaker and, more or less, to the previous speakers of others, when there are repeated countries where it works everywhere, and it works successfully. It doesn't work anywhere. This model does not really work anywhere. He worked in Croatia, where he ended up bad, like the guy who set it up. [[11.10 hours]] And only briefly to those who support the EET. Yes, I understand that the EET supports the manufacturer and seller of registration cash registers. Sounds pretty logical to me. I understand that EET supports large businesses that solve their own internal problem, that they are unable to set up their processes inside that enterprise, those big restaurants. Maybe the EET has something to do with them. But for whom it has no meaning, and for whom we do it, are the small and medium-sized businessmen we stand for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u79	Thank you for keeping time. President Alena Schillerová and then Mr Jan Volný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u80	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. So that no one works, Mr Kučera, through the Vice-President. Now whatsappem came to me -- it obviously works in some form in about 17, 18 countries -- and now whatsappem came to me. There's a private carrier, like a train, it's just crossing the border, EET is voluntary, so it doesn't have to be on, it runs to Slovakia, it turns on, it doesn't have to be called EET so you don't catch me at the word again, it goes to Austria, it switches, it goes to Hungary, it switches, of course, also in other countries. Just the way it doesn't work everywhere. And otherwise, there's a poll running on News, and now I've seen it on, on it-- And are you in favour of cancellation or against cancellation? Some 3,800 or 3,900 readers have already voted there. Well, check it out all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u81	Thank you for keeping time. And I will ask Mr. Jan Volný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u82	Well, thank you, Madam President. I would like to see President Kučera through you. I don't blame him. He hasn't been here long. He's not on the budget committee. This way, I'm just gonna teach him that registers aren't used here, so registration cashiers don't have anything to say about it. And that we're talking about EET, it's true that it was in Croatia, it's still running there, even if they don't have the best experience with it. But otherwise registration of sales in those 18 countries, or 19, is, yes, with registration cash registers lengthy, cumbersome, unmodern. And if you don't have the information, I have it. I happen to hear it on the radio 14 days ago, about a half-hour show about the Slovák going on electronic sales log. They have registers, but now they've developed some miracle machine that's basically similar to what we're working with. That means those states that know that the record of sales is meaningful will gradually transfer to that electronic register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u83	Thank you for keeping time. And now Vice-President Karel Havlíček is still applying for action. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u84	Yes, thank you. A brief response to the Member, President Kučera. Mr President, let us divide this into big and small ones. With the big ones who want some kind of control system, you're basically right there, they can set up some kind of internal system. They probably don't need electronic sales records for that. But that wasn't the most important thing. They can actually create their own. The big problem is that they have to show everything properly, and then anyone can open or continue their activities and do not have to report properly. That's what bothers them, not that they can't set up their own system. And with the little ones, I'm sorry, but you're wrong. Of the seven associations, associations - I will take the three that defend the interests of the small ones, which is the Association of Czech Traditional Trade, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders and the Chamber of Commerce. They definitely said they wanted it. So not only the big ones who defend the Union of Industry, the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions and so on. But the representatives of the little ones made it very clear. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. And before I give the floor to the lady of the house, I'm gonna make an apology. Mr Jan Síla apologizes at 12 o'clock for reasons of work. And please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u86	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear ministers - thank you for letting me speak in the plural. I also had a few comments on what was said in the debate, but in view of how long the factual remarks were, I will not comment on this and so I will come straight to the point. I'll take the liberty of reminiscing as is my custom. The government's programming statement, if we put the "we will prevent tax evasion" point next to each other, and the second point "we will reduce the bureaucratic burden of managing taxes and charges, we will abolish the EET's obligation and parametrically adjust the control report" - why am I quoting this? Personally, I find it quite illogical that you want to prevent tax evasion by abolishing the EET. According to experts comes another possible unpleasant effect of the end of the EET, namely less willingness of entrepreneurs to accept credit cards and return to cash. The ATMs, however, are still minimal in small municipalities. This is confirmed by current research by STEM/MARK for Euronet ATM providers. According to him, up to half of the people would welcome more ATMs in their locations. One of the reasons why small retailers and restaurants in small villages even considered cash-free payments was the compulsory introduction of EET, and thus the forced step of some level of digitalisation. I remind you that digitization is also the flagship of this coalition. Not only in my personal experience, but also in the experience of my surroundings, especially in hospitality, there is a part of entrepreneurs refusing credit card payments. After all, many of my colleagues before me spoke of this. After all, my personal experience is that I am no longer having lunch without cash in Czech and Moravian spa cities. After the cancellation of the EET, it can be assumed that this smart business practice will also move to other municipalities and cities. But these companies cannot do without a wider network of ATMs around them, and this is what we are trying to help smaller communities. This is not how I comment on the situation, but Ondřej Kozák, CEO of Euronet ČR. According to recent research by STEM/MARK for Euronet ATM providers, 60 per cent of people are the main reasons for payment in cash that the trader does not accept credit cards. One person in four pays with cash every day. A quarter of Čech also prefer it to a credit card. Half of the people would like more ATMs in their locations. Thirty-one percent of those contacted said that they had an ATM very far away from their residence. I remind you that at the second reading of the bill, I have already expressed myself on the issue of cash-free payments. She had a coalition on 23. 6. this year one excellent argument, namely a sharp increase in the volume of cash-free payments, when last year it was about 60 percent and within two to three years experts estimate that the share of cash-free payments is reported to rise to 80 percent of all sales. No, I'm not an expert, but I dare say that the expected growth of cashless payments, as estimated by experts, at 80 percent is a chimera or simply a wishful thinking. If I can no longer pay by card for lunch in Luhačovice, Karlovy Vary, and as I have heard from my colleague Havlíček, and other tourist destinations, the situation will certainly not improve by abolishing the EET. If I want to spend my vacation in our beautiful country again, I will first have to pick up a large amount of cash or have a properly mapped network of ATMs in the recreation area. I think that the cancellation of EET payments will not only slow down, but also stop, or even turn in the opposite direction. I have a request to the Minister, I suppose he registered it, although he was absent at second reading, which I asked my colleague Munzar to report to this press at the time. Could it be possible to evaluate data on cashless payments at the end of 2023 and inform the Chamber of Deputies? Unfortunately, I am afraid that, even if that happens and the Minister will be kind enough to comply with me, these data will be distorted, as part of the transaction will not be recorded anywhere. I expect a tendency towards a grey economy, i.e. an increase in the number of cash transactions that are not recorded anywhere, from which, as is clear, taxes will not actually be paid. [[11.20 hours]] In conclusion, there's only one thing. I am glad that the negotiations of the Chamber of Deputies are being carried over online, but I would like to know how to remedy this when the greater part of my colleague Havlíček's speech was simply not online and people could not look at the proceedings of this Chamber of Deputies. It would be good to address this problem, I suppose, in a technical way, so that the records can actually be made available to people and journalists. I would like to know whether this record will be added to the archive so that I or other people who are interested in it can look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u87	Thank you, Madame. I took note of the technical matter. Mr Martin Kukla is now signed in and Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll get off to the EET shortly. Let's review how it all started. The electronic record of sales was introduced on 1 December 2016. The first wave of EET covered the food and hospitality sector. Subsequently, electronic sales records expanded to the retail and wholesale segment on 1 March 2017. Unfortunately, the third and fourth waves were postponed as a result of the intervention of the Constitutional Court and consequently as a result of the health crisis. Finally, the Constitutional Court stated in its verdict that not only is the EET not unconstitutional, but it is a legitimate instrument for verifying tax obligations. The electronic record of sales met expectations, namely the settlement of the business environment, the fair conditions for honest entrepreneurs and also the most important - when we look at today's situation, the state cash register today, so it had a clear and proven contribution to the state budget. More than 60 billion crowns since the introduction of the EET, 12.8 billion a year for the first and second waves. In the case of the introduction of a third and fourth wave of additional about 8 billion per year. If we look at today's inflation, the numbers for the state register would, of course, be much higher. From the outset, electronic sales log is designed as a surface measure with a gradual run-up, whose main objective is the settlement of the business environment in the Czech Republic and also a higher tax collection, which creates scope for reducing the tax burden of the Czech Republic. For this reason, the introduction of electronic sales records involves a significant reduction in VAT in all sectors where harmonised European tax legislation allows it. The reduction in VAT largely remains for entrepreneurs in the form of a higher margin and, together with the elimination of unfair competition, is the reason why e-booking of sales from the outset is supported by most professional and trade unions, chambers and associations. Electronic sales log is one of the most important tax measures and at the same time the most important step in correcting the business environment in our modern history. A fair environment is one where everyone has the same conditions and in which they properly fulfil their tax obligations. Therefore, the record of sales has been conceived from the outset as an area measure covering cash sales across the Czech economy. Experience from years of operation in the first two waves shows that EET has become a good tool for tax collection. Let's take a look at today's condition. The state budget is clearly missing money. Petr Fiala's government has promised us here that it will stop indebting our state. We will look at the planned balance of this year around 400 billion, for next year another 300 billion. I will now quote: "Czechs must return to tax increases." The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Environment Marian Jurečka for KDU-ČSL told the news in an interview. I'd like to know his answer to how he wants to raise taxes. Does he mean canceling a super-gross wage, or what kind of raise he's talking about? Since EET was a legitimate instrument, it brought money to the state register, which is now missing from the state register. Looking at the super gross wage, of course, it brought people money. For example, who had 34,000 gross, and they were married and had both 34,000 gross, it brought tax savings of CZK 41,400 annually. So I want to ask the government where he wants to raise taxes? I was intersecting here, or maybe it was in the government's programming statement when the Prime Minister told me we weren't gonna let anyone fall. We will aim specifically and no surface aid that we were accused of at the time of the covid. Let us see what the government has brought about with regard to energy. She came up with a general measure this year, but unfortunately she helped those who didn't need it at all. For example, I am told by people who say: I have received CZK 3,500 from the government, but I have not been affected by any increase. I have a price fixed for a year and a half, but even so, the government is sending me some 3,500 crowns. I think this is a waste and a waste of taxpayers' money. The government just wasn't able to set it up, and they've made dimensional arrangements. If we look further, the government, of course, is looking for savings, but let's look at the state budget. I sit on a budget committee, and I am not surprised when individual chapter administrators lecture and say, "We don't even have mandatorial expenses. It's a sad sight. Or, as regards further double taxation or double choice in the government's energy aid. So there was a windfall tax first. Then it was said yes, we're gonna put a price on the manufacturers - which we've been calling for since spring, so the government's only brought it up now. So first the windfall tax, then the ceiling. Well, of course, what does that mean? It means the manufacturer will produce electricity at some price. If he sells her a price before the ceiling's fixed, she'll take it away. Well, what's left of it is going to tax 60%, so-called war tax, and then 15%.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u89	Mr. Ambassador, with a great apology, I must interrupt you for a moment to welcome the delegation. Then you will have your word back immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to welcome to the guest gallery the delegation of the Jordanese Hashimian Kingdom, led by the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the compatriots of the Jordanian Hashimian Kingdom, Mr Ajman Safadí. Welcome. [[Let's hear it.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u90	I am sorry that the Minister of Finance is to cancel the party assignment of the EET, and then he will cry over the state of the budget that government politicians portray as the worst in Europe, and he will ordain savings and belt tightening for citizens and entrepreneurs. So much for me to EET. I especially thank the Coalition Members that they will think about it and support us in ensuring that the EET pays and is not cancelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Mr Marek Novák will now prepare Mrs Lenka Knechtová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear representatives of the government, while I'm observing this, already in third reading, I don't really know why we're meeting here and glowing in vain. Today, we are witnessing a phenomenon that ODS and its friends have rarely demonstrated in previous parliamentary periods, the KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. That is precisely the vote on strength. Each previous House admitted this moment only exceptionally, and such a step has always been preceded by extensive and, above all, expert discussions. But not today. The opposition via the media has already been told that its arguments will not be heard. The party lasts, and you're like, "We're ruling now, and you don't get to say anything to us in opposition." The Chamber of Deputies has lost its capacity to discuss and seek an agreement thanks to the five of you. Colleagues, colleagues, today, and I say it again, once again to the strength, this House is likely to proclaim the complete abolition of the EET, the hated system that Babiš has introduced here, which allows the financiers to control to the last detail of the entrepreneur, businesses and citizens of this state. Hooray! That's how you dealt with Babiš. But is that really true? Aren't we living at a time when every crown raised in the state budget can help improve our population's overall situation? Why are we giving up a system that proved its functionality and even helped those entrepreneurs in a number of cases? They say it themselves, and you say no, they're wrong, we ask other businessmen and they say something else. So I guess we have two businessmen here, maybe three, I don't know. However, you want to abolish a system that has clearly levelled the distorted business environment here. Maybe you don't know, maybe you know, but the assignment's probably different. Do you actually remember the scandals specifically by ODS politicians who diverted their finances or optimized their tax bases in various ways? You remember that, right? So are we. And maybe many of us are in politics. That means the same ODS is bringing things back to what they call normal right now. And if you think there's an interest in setting up the business environment in ODS, I think he'll decide no. I think we're actually going back to the '90s, and that makes me quite sad personally. I will remind you again, and many of you will remember what kind of martyria and negative reactions we went through as an ANO movement when we finally brought this working model into the management of the Czech economy. We had a strong and influential group of entrepreneurs who did not behave towards the state as completely fair farmers, well, and, to say the ODS dictionary, they optimized and diverted their revenues and revenues. Despite all the obstacles and blubbering comparable to the uprising of craftsmen in introducing machines in the industrial revolution, it turned out clearly that an instrument whose purpose is not based on giving, is actually a historical fashion in our regions, but an instrument that also helps businessmen and entrepreneurs. In the ordinary course of trade, the receipt is an integral part of the complaint process. In the operations of modern gastronomy, there is also a growing possibility of card payment as a normal part of the payment process. Surprisingly, however, many gastro-economic entrepreneurs today have broken down payment terminals. Why do you think? But you certainly didn't notice that, did you? For the owners of a restaurant or craft workshops from such a mapped flow of finance, additional secondary indicators can be created that can help in further direction or expansion of business. We actually educated them, we helped them. But this data is also important for the decision-making of the state, and you know that. But you probably don't need the data or the money, dear government. Colleagues, colleagues, please remember the situation we are in today. The Republic needs money to run social programs and services to cover pensions and salaries. And our today's finance minister is going to launch one of the key mechanisms that can help him keep track of what's going on in our tax payers. It just shows how incompetent this government is. It is also evident in today's decision that it is, in fact, a government of chaos. All of this covered by the six-month Presidency of the European Union. This mess seems to suit. But ladies and gentlemen, this will all be over on New Year's Silvestr. I know you promised to cancel the EET at all costs, and that's what you're doing today. You don't care about the price. Won't you really miss the resources? Minister Jurečka is already only thinking, although in his case he often wishes to father ideas, later retirement and other similar antisocial nonsense. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the EET is definitely an instrument, and you have heard enough arguments here today that help the state to maintain awareness of the state's financial and tax condition. By destroying him, you shoot yourself in the knee voluntarily. But as I observe your reign, it's obviously a target. Chaos, incompetence, hiding behind empty proclamations, arrogance, and contempt for citizens. You are leading this state to destruction. The screaming that Babiš is responsible for everything is no longer valid. Now it's all your fault. And if we look at the numbers, it's clear. And he's gonna give us all a job, all of us who are interested in developing our republic and not discussing it as a lego, he's gonna give us a lot of work before we put it together. I'm ashamed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. And now, Mrs Lenka Knechtová will appear and Mr David Štolpa will be prepared. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u94	Madam President, thank you for the floor. It is clear, honourable Members, Mr Minister, that the electronic record of sales has greatly improved the business environment. I and many other experts still hope that there will be no complete cancellation. I quote from the Chamber of Commerce's observations: The continuation of the EET on a voluntary basis would not waste the costs incurred by entrepreneurs to acquire and maintain treasury systems, as well as public expenditure on an automated tax information system operated by the public administration. I would like to stop at the claim that cash-free payments are growing significantly. The growth of cash-free payments came as a response to the specific situation, yes, also through the introduction of the EET. There have been significant social and economic changes since the adoption of this law in 2016. Thanks to EET, the traders quickly adopted cash-free payments and we could really feel like we did in the 21st century. The cancellation of the EET will cause traders to retreat from cash-free payments and we will be back ten years. Anyone who says otherwise is lying in their pockets. By canceling the EET, the trader will simply no longer have the incentive to operate cash-free payments. [[11.40 hours]] Quote from the final report Evaluation of the effects of regulation: The purpose of the sales log was to minimise tax evasion due to non-recording of cash sales for which there is no digital footprint. Although this risk persists, in view of the above trends and other measures, it is significantly lower than at the time when the sales log was established, the importance of this form of registration will continue to decrease in view of the expected reduction in the importance of cash transactions. So we're just assuming, that's an important word - we're assuming - and we're not taking into account the current economic and economic situation at all. I still expect the Ministry of Finance to publish in this context the relevant basis that the introduction of the EET did not have the economic benefit of having the opportunity to independently verify this opinion and the basis for this opinion. In the debate, we are still overreacting about a single truth, and we only evaluate the EET from our own perspective. I lack overall strategic information, as was the case with the introduction of this legislation. In fact, the government is not concerned with the requirement to increase fairness both in the business environment and in the areas of speed and reliability of tax collection. Where is the independent assessment of the cost analysis, revenues and functioning of electronic sales records and, above all, the risk assessment? For such a strategic decision, we cannot rely solely on a published programming declaration, which does not count on the re-establishing of the obligation to electronically record sales from January 2023. And I ask again - how did the government deal with the view that the abolition of the EET really could mean the transition of hundreds of millions of crowns to billions of crowns back into the grey zone, when some entrepreneurs do not report these sales, will not pay taxes for them? The government is thwarting a large-scale investment by the state and private entities. The state has invested almost a billion into the EET, which is in order less than what the EET will bring to the budget each year. Private entities have invested even more in total. Waste, which is not based on facts, but merely on a political assignment. It shows how uneconomically the government approaches public money while constantly telling people about responsible budgetary policy. We're constantly hearing what's missing from the money, but we're gonna voluntarily take out 13 billion of the state budget here. It's 13 billion a year, so every year when the government weeps over high deficits, it can only blame itself. I would like to make a comparison of the results of the study on the extent of the grey economy in the Czech Republic, the percentage of GDP, when in 2010, i.e. in the ODS government, it was 16,7 %, in 2019, the last year before the covid, it was only 13 percent and in 2021, i.e. after shutting down the EET, it jumped to 13.9 %. I would still like to present the current views of people from practice. Many experts and restaurants themselves are now making it clear: it would be right to maintain the EET on a voluntary basis, with entrepreneurs who would use the system having some advantages from the state. The State would tell them indirectly that it trusts them, says Luboš Kastner of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. Currently, when the system is suspended, over 200 entrepreneurs continue to voluntarily register their sales. With incentives from the state, many others would return to the system. The benefit could be, for example, that these entrepreneurs are not in the Financial Administration's view. Alternatively, at a time when measures similar to those in the pandemic would have to be implemented in some way again, it would have been registered entrepreneurs who would have been given preferential compensation from the State for making their income transparently available to them that would have been named by representatives of the Association. Miroslav Lukeš, who runs the Czech Fintech Association, also believes that abolishing the EET would be a wasted opportunity: It is an instrument that has adopted a large number of entrepreneurs and which has brought many benefits. Rather, the state should look for ways to use this system as part of digitization. I could imagine using the system in the idea of a digital tax return. This already works in different countries. We say how much we digitize the Czech Republic, while the plan is actually to shut down the digitization of retail. I propose to use the EET as a basis for digitising the state and extending the system to create an environment that would provide the basis for tax returns and thus help reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers. I also appeal to the Pirate Party, which has a full mouth digitalization, but all they can so far clearly do is vote for the abolition of the EET, which was at the time of the introduction and is still a turning digital tool. That's how it's done with the digitalization of the mind. I appeal to your reason and conscience. Let us not waste what has already been worked out, let us not waste the opportunity and investment that has become unnecessarily the subject of a storm of political struggles. Let's not take a step into the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, Madame. Now I think it would be Mr. Kubíček's point of fact, but he is not in the room, so maybe it was a mistake. Mr David Štolpa is now next and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at third reading today, we are discussing a government bill, which simply cancels electronic sales records. And I'm not just asking why, what's the government's motivation? After all, I feel that the motivation of the government is not some rational consideration or perhaps a benefit for Czech citizens, but that the motivation is purely spiteful to its political competitors. The electronic record-keeping of sales was and is still an effective and proven tool which enabled the Financial Administration to use the data obtained efficiently, dishonest entrepreneurs to take their competitive advantage and target their controls where irregularities occur. Some of the many forms of electronic sales log work in many countries of the European Union. These are Italy, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, Belgium, Lithuania, Sweden, Romania, Malta, Bulgaria, Greece, Cyprus and Croatia. For a segment of taxi service even electronic sales records work in Germany. Even in such a country as Sweden, where the payment morale of tax entities is much higher and the amount of the grey economy is lower than in the Czech Republic, after the introduction of electronic sales records in 2010 - here I will point out that it was the right-wing government - an increase in reported sales by an average of 5.2 %. Tax collection increased by CZK 8.1 billion. Electronic sales log is one of the most important tax measures and at the same time the most important step in correcting the business environment in our modern history. A fair environment is one where everyone has the same conditions and in which proper performance of duties does not constitute a competitive disadvantage. This is why the record of sales has been conceived from the outset as an area measure covering cash sales across the Czech economy. Experience from flight operations in the first two waves shows that there is nothing to worry about. EET is a modern and fully automated way of communicating between entrepreneurs and the Financial Administration, which brings a number of specific advantages to entrepreneurs, and its introduction has included the Czech Republic among almost twenty European countries in which some form of electronic sales records already work. One of the other important benefits of electronic sales records was and are more targeted controls of the Financial Administration, thanks to which honest entrepreneurs are not harassed by so-called blind checks. After years of existence, it is clear that the electronic record of sales has made these checks significantly more effective and targeted. Moreover, EET enjoys support from entrepreneurs themselves, i.e. those that are primarily concerned. For example, when Eva Svobodová, CEO of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic, stated that she supported electronic record of sales as an association from the outset as an instrument to reconcile the business environment with the fact that, if conditions are to be completely fair, it is right that electronic record of sales should apply to all. [[11.50 hours]] EET significantly increases customer confidence in the seller, thus gaining confidence that the VAT that is paid in the price of goods or services is actually paid to the State. The receipt itself is actually a transparent account that removes suspicion of fraud between the customer and the seller. On the other hand, the seller creates good relationships with customers, has a better overview of his sales, stock management, and often eliminates the fraud of his staff. Although the EET is voluntary until the end of 2022, the circus records 60 percent of entrepreneurs further, suggesting something. Did anyone ask those companies? Businesses would be welcome if they got benefits in exchange for staying at the EET. For example, it is possible to stimulate the voluntary record of sales by discount on income tax or by extending certain deadlines in which taxpayers and payers are obliged to submit returns or reports, they could also reduce the frequency of these reporting obligations, for example the head of the Department of Legislation, Law and Analysis of the Chamber of Commerce Ladislav Minčič. Electronic sales log doesn't really matter to anyone involved. For some reason, it only bothers the current government coalition. Why? I think that's pretty clear. What doesn't seem to matter is the decline in the revenue of the state budget that has been linked to the EET. This is about 14 billion per year. If the Minister of Finance refused to introduce a third and fourth wave, I could still understand it, because politics often prevails over common sense, as we often see. But why bother with the raging first and second waves? EET clearly met expectations and levelled the business environment in the Czech Republic. The elimination of unfair competition and the creation of conditions for fair entrepreneurs were also the reason why EET was supported from the outset by most professional and trade union associations, chambers and associations. I am not finding a single reason to cancel the electronic record of sales, which is why I will vote against this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u97	Thank you, too. Mrs Berenika Peštová will now appear and prepare Mrs Monika Oborná. However, since Mrs Peštová is not in the room, she is losing her order. [[Mrs Peštová just ran into the hall.]] Did you make it yet? However, Madame, by not really being in that room at the time, I had to put you on the bottom. I'm sorry, but it really works that way. Madame Oborná is now next. Please. Mr Nacher will be ready, he will be the next enrollment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor. Good day, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear Minister. Let me, too, make a very, very brief comment on the cancellation of the EET. Of course I understand, we're at the third reading. I understand we're not gonna change your mind. However, what I do not understand is that you refuse to leave the EET on a voluntary basis at least. As a member of the Economic Committee, I would like the vote of the Chamber of Commerce to be heard here, because I consider this to be very important. Some colleagues have already mentioned this. In fact, paradoxically, this is your decision against business representatives, because it is one of the major votes to support voluntary registration that comes from the Chamber of Commerce. The State could, thanks to the voluntary record of sales, aimlessly appreciate transparent entrepreneurs instead of the general demotivating distrust of all entrepreneurs en bloc, says the spokesman of the Chamber of Commerce. In general, the Chamber of Commerce supported the idea of EET, as it sees, like other critics, the abolition of the registration of measures, how to limit unfair competition or to level up the business environment. I quote: Entrepreneurs who conceal sales and therefore do not pay taxes or health and social insurance are undoubtedly privileged to those who are regular payers. These are specific sentences that sound from the Chamber of Commerce, which represents the entrepreneurs. This is also pointed out by Miroslav Lukeš of the Finech Association: A wide range of customers were pleased that the company they came to acts according to the rules and, like them, they pay taxes. Many business associations want to maintain the EET precisely because they want to show that there are no tax-payers and that their sector is honest, Miroslav Lukeš complements it. At the same time, it rejects the Ministry of Finance's justification that the state is losing CZK 0.5 billion each year due to the operation of the system and entrepreneurs due to the necessary maintenance of the system by another 1.5 billion. This is a clear view and a message from people who represent entrepreneurs. And I really don't understand that this government is proposing a complete cancellation of the EET and will not at least leave a voluntary record of sales. I would also like to remind you here that the EET has supported a number of business associations and entrepreneurs themselves, who - I repeat - at least ask for its maintenance in voluntary form. EET helps entrepreneurs with accounting management and last but not least in the control of employees. EET proved to be a successful project, as a project that led to a smoothing of the business environment. And I am convinced that we should listen to these views from practice, and once again, please consider at least supporting the voluntary maintenance of electronic sales records. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. And now it should be Mr Patrik Nacher's turn, and again I do not see him in the hall, so he is also losing order. Now, then, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, also absent in the hall, so that Mrs Berenika Peštová comes next. Mr Martin Kolovratník will then be prepared. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor. So since the ruling coalition doesn't want to listen to the voice of the opposition, of course I have prepared, or I have looked at the newspaper that says about it everywhere, and I have found an article where experts comment on it. The theme to cancel the EET is a mistake, claims experts. So if not us, at least I'd like to read this article here to make it clear and clear that it's not just our fight, it's the fight for those who really want it. The state will lose the possibility of continuously monitoring the state of the economy in individual areas of business and regions of the Republic. In view of recent considerable investments by entrepreneurs, a built-up public administration apparatus, progress in digitization and other benefits that electronic sales records bring, it is appropriate to maintain it, at least on a voluntary basis. The Chamber of Deputies has a decision on the fate of electronic sales records. According to experts from the Moore Czech Republic advisory group, the state will cut off the potential tool for the easy allocation of subsidies following the amount of registered sales and eliminate the already built-up trusted collection of receipts, which could be the basis for standardising electronic receipts. Moreover, according to former Finance Minister Alena Schillerová of the ANO movement, the state will lose CZK 12 to 13 billion per year if EET shuts down definitively. The Chamber of Commerce is also opposed to the annulment, which was said before me. I quote: I would not remove what is demand from a number of entrepreneurs and what they believe works because it balances the business environment and contributes to the impartial digitalisation of the state. The refusal of all support to those who want registration would have been a step backwards, not to mention the wasted hundreds of million-dollar costs on the part of the state and the private sector, mentioned earlier in an interview for FokusOn Ladislav Minčič, Director of the Department of Law and Analyses of the Chamber of Commerce. [[12.00 hours]] The introduction of the EET was not completely painless. This is also evidenced by the fact that even before the outbreak of the pandemic, the record did not work fully, and it was suspended. Next - I quote: By abolishing the EET, the government will knowingly dispose of an instrument that could help restart tax collection from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. At the same time, the system could serve as a platform for issuing and storing electronic receipts, thus contributing to a significant shift in digitization of the Czech economy, says Miloslav Rut partner of Moore Technology.cz . In addition, supporting the modernisation of cash-free reception systems and terminals is one of the current initiatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic. The cancellation of the obligation to register paradoxically jumped down the share of cash-free transactions, as a part of entrepreneurs again began to prefer unregistered cash revenues over recorded transactions with credit cards. Similarly, registration of sales helped, helped owners to monitor the state of their business daily and was an effective internal control tool. Last but not least, an increase in the share of the grey economy may have an impact on the level of legal wages of employees, because the grey economy logically generates even unconceived and untaxed payment of part of wages. Experts believe that if the State does not want to force entrepreneurs to register electronically, the whole system can be transferred to a voluntary EET regime. I quote: Re-registration of sales in a voluntary scheme linked to a set of advantages and incentives for entrepreneurs can be a positive signal on how to manage and restore the economy while addressing the country's debt. In the same way, it would send honest entrepreneurs and citizens who support such entrepreneurs a message that such an approach will be paid thanks to easy and rapid access to economic incentives and simplifying their administration, says Miloslav Rut, with the fact that recording sales and paying taxes is correct and normal for honest-minded entrepreneurs, but do not want to be unfair competition avoiding taxation pushed into the grey zone. Moreover, by supporting at least a voluntary electronic sales log scheme, the basis for a further stage of digitisation of the economy, which would concern ordinary commercial transactions of citizens, and by making communication between entrepreneurs and the State more effective in the field of tax returns. The voluntary electronic record of sales for the originally planned third and fourth wave can be introduced almost immediately by means of a small amendment to the Sales Recording Act. So this is the opinion of experts, when, of course, we are legislators, but we should also hear what experts say. And if the experts say they don't want to cancel, or at least they want to leave volunteering, then we should hear about this and at least give them the volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Madame. Let me also say hello to all of you, we switched with my colleague. And, please, another logged in, and this is Mr. Martin Kolovratník. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u102	So good at this point in the afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for the floor. I'll pick up my fellow speakers and previous speakers on the subject here. Well, some things are going to happen again, because from the point of view of us representatives of the economic committee, Members who communicate with the market, with entrepreneurs, with business associations, and with those to whom this is about today's topic. So if you hear any of these arguments again, please don't be angry, but it's good to hear it. After all, it's called repeating the mother of wisdom. We truly, dear, dear coalition, are deeply convinced that this step that you are taking is not only an imaginary return to the nineties, to the cash transactions, to the gray economy, but that it is simply completely unnecessary, completely, very, very unnecessary step back, where ideology, in short, you promised to say it in the same way as you did in the construction law and other standards from the previous government's workshop, so that you said that you promised to cancel, and you didn't look right to the left. My speech will be in the spirit that you have the right, of course you have the votes to do it, but please come to think again and consider the support specifically and ideally for the Alena Schillerová amendment, which aims to make the EET sales log so-called, the shortcut has also been introduced in the discussions, the so-called DET, the voluntary sales log. And those arguments are quite clear in our opinion. In short, businessmen, retail, services, whether they're hotels, restaurants that work with the system, the tools that have already introduced it, paid for it, got used to it, so they just shut it down, they go back to the cash. And you know that market, I don't know the numbers exactly, that it's definitely divided into several kinds, several parts. Some of them normally work with him, it's a normal automatic system for them to record their supplies, materials, billing, against it some of them just until now, logically because during the EET covide it was shut down, they had the terminals so-called in the plug, and they don't use them anymore. I was interested in these discussions, let's say, the arguments or proposals of those trade associations, and it's not just the Chamber of Commerce, the Czech Fintech Association, HOREKA and others that say, so, dear state, dear Minister of Finance Stanjuro, when you have the instrument, let's look for solutions that these entrepreneurs do not view as opponents as opponents. I'm sure there is a good listener here, Mr Munzar, with whom we discussed this topic on TV yesterday, and I was impressed by his argument that he said: "We as a state - and that is the ideal view - do not want to make these entrepreneurs the enemies, the dirty suspects." We believe them. But please, colleagues, look at what they are telling you, how they respond to you back, and many of them, not some, but many of them, and they say: But we do not consider ourselves enemies. We consider ourselves to be partners of the state, your partners, the entities that communicate with you. And we're fine with that. We like it when we can continue to function automatically in the system as it was set up. So I'm talking about volunteering. And so, please, find a system where you can somehow motivate us. Illustratively, for example, in a certain shift with the closing of the tax return on the management that is being administered, in the communication with the State or with the tax administration. It's not an invention of our opposition, it's a response to... or it's an argument, it's an interpretation of the arguments that those entrepreneurs who are interested in you are telling you. And yet - it just doesn't make sense to us if we're talking about a clear fiscal benefit here, and I respect that someone can say, it's only two billion, three, four, according to our estimate, it could be a lot more, we can agree or we don't have to. In order for this to be a relevant debate with clear critical arguments, it should only arise after a certain amendment has been adopted or what we will be clear about, for example, the volunteering to what extent it would be. I'm sure you can count that. But my colleagues, whether it's the 4 billion or the 12 billion, we're gonna get here in a few days to discuss the state budget, so you're gonna let them get away? You're just gonna hand them over? You leave them in that gray economy, when some of the entrepreneurs themselves call you, we're ready to do it and we're gonna keep doing it? That's probably the main argument that we've been trying to repeat to you all along patiently. [[12.10 hours]] As I said, from the point of view of me, the Vice-President of the Economic Committee and the Member, who is also logically moving most in his region from his work, but also here in Prague in the business environment and talking to the partners, so if we hear from them, I repeat it again, we do not feel like the dirty suspects, like any of your opponents or enemies, we want to be your partners, so come out and meet us and let's look for the win-win, the motivational path, so we want to convince you that there is a point. And we're clearly saying that if you don't hear the arguments at all, if you don't come forward, you're going to reject the volunteering, so that you're simply going to lose a relatively large amount of billions of yourself and the state budget - and please think about that in those other debates. And it's a step that we consider completely, completely unnecessary. Thus, a step where ideology clearly shows that ideology prevails over common sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And please the next enrollment, and this is Mr Patrik Nacher. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I don't have any paper, so I'll have some questions, so I won't be able to pass them on to you. This time I'm gonna surprise you, I'm not gonna say I didn't want to talk because I wanted to talk. I came back from the council a little while ago, so I'm going to adjust the length of my contribution, so it's going to be shorter than longer, because we enjoyed it, or I enjoyed it on the other side of the Vltava until 4:30 a.m. My question and basically the view of it is still identical, consistent. I dare say that when an amendment of this type is adopted, two criteria should be met. Either ideally both at the same time or separately. First, if it brings anything to the state budget. I would understand that, which is not what's happening in this case. On the contrary, the state budget will come up, and now we can argue here if it's 4 billion, 6 billion, 12 billion, that's obviously different angles here. We just know that's what we learned at the conference I co-organized that the system cost 80 to 100 million crowns. But every amount of that yield is much higher than that cargo. So it doesn't bring anything to the state budget. Then there's a second motive, a second reason to present such an amendment here, and that's that it helps somebody, some target group, in this case entrepreneurs. And here I would like to remind my honored colleagues repeatedly that the very entrepreneurs you want to help, they don't want it. They're used to it, they're okay with it, they're in it voluntarily. If you were at the conference I held here, those people who have been in this business for decades - and now I'm talking about gastronomy - I'm talking about the first and second waves, it's for the rapporteur not to push me around again, that I'm talking about some other waves of EET - so they say they want it. They're not calling to cancel. All the representatives of the largest associations and associations at the conference said that they were okay with the EET and that they wanted it at least on the voluntary basis. I'm a little sorry that my honored colleague Vojtěch Munzar, whom I called upon after the first reading, after the second reading, to hold a conference together, could join Honza Skopeček, so that we could hold a conference on EET, about voluntary EET, invited entrepreneurs across there, because I'm not saying it's 100:0 but it's not even 0:100, and they got feedback. Unfortunately, neither of you gentlemen have come to me to do it again. So, so far, this is the only conference I've held, and the results, we've been sharing with your colleagues and especially Mrs. Alena Schillerová. In other words, it will not bring anything to the state budget at a time when, on the contrary, you need to do something about the state budget. Either increase revenue, and I understand that there are various new taxes and new levies and the like, but at least I'm glad you're not increasing income tax, direct taxes on the one hand, or cutting down significantly somewhere. I haven't noticed yet that this government would have severed or cut down on those officials, the number of officials. If somewhere, I'd be happy to have the Minister brag about it, because so far I've always been on TV with your colleagues, and in a mirrored way, I argued that the number of employees in public administration has risen or increased by 8,000, even if it's in regional education, but that was before, and you guys were beating it on my head, so now it's coming back to you as a boomerang. This means that it doesn't bring anything to the state budget, yet you devote so much energy to it. So it doesn't meet that criterion there. You're not helping any target group because they don't want it, they don't want it. And if they wanted it, and if there were a lot of them, I dare say that you would respond positively to my call, and you would want to and would hold a conference here where you would like to prove to me that most entrepreneurs in this business want to give it up. But that didn't happen. That means that I can deduce that the opinions of the representatives of the business unions and associations that I've heard, and I know what they were saying because I was sitting there, and you could also sit there, that they don't mind it, they invested in it, they don't really consider themselves dishonest and vice versa, and I'm just saying here, I'm not going to repeat it here, except that for some of them it has the added value of electronization, more employee control, so it's also that they don't actually have the disadvantage of being an honest businessman, so actually, by being an EET, they're losing the disadvantage of being honest, actually, because the person who doesn't carry out the resources or pay the salaries of their employees from any fund, so he could afford to even sell a cheaper product because he went outside the official system. That's how it is, and you could have heard it live on the air. In other words, I would really like to one day, I am the second-to-last, so I would like to ask the Minister if he could actually tell me so that I can really understand what it is about besides some political flag that I understand, and I was telling you this, I understand it, it's something with which you got some percentage in the elections, I understand that, but in the meantime, the situation has changed, just as it has changed with the state budget. And we've also been dealing with an amendment to the state budget for 2022. The condition isn't constant. You couldn't have known there was going to be a war in Ukraine, there was going to be an energy crisis, that is, the situation, the parameters have changed. That means, I understand the political flag, I don't understand the other parameters. This means that, at a time when there is a need to deal with the state budget, it does not bring any harm to the state budget, on the contrary. And at a time when you need to help those entrepreneurs, they need help somewhere else, and they're not calling for this. That means I don't see the benefits that it's supposed to bring, and that justify the energy we're giving it here. If the Minister can explain it to me, I'd be happy to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u105	Thank you, and with priority rights, Vice-President Skopeček is reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u106	Thank you very much. I'm gonna start out like my colleague Nacher, who said he was consistent. I have been consistent with EET for many years, and I have stood up and fought against the approval of the EET in the last parliamentary term, and the consistency is long overdue on our side. I have spoken a lot about this at the time, so now that it may be coming to an end, I will allow myself to repeat just a few of my fundamental arguments, which I had at the time when EET was adopted, and I have them even today, when we may be able to cancel the EET. [[12.20 hours]] EET is and has been a bureaucratic obstacle to entrepreneurs from the start. It simply brought to entrepreneurs already in the market working and possibly to entrepreneurs who had just decided whether to go into the business, brought extra costs that they would not have to spend without EET and could have invested in their business in something else. You're saying that a number of entrepreneurs have gotten used to EET. It's possible. However, I hope that we all want to live in an environment where a growing number of people will make decisions for business, because entrepreneurs are those who feed this country and who are moving this economy and this country forward, and we want entrepreneurs to grow, not to have consistent or equal amounts. EET was costing both the acquisition, simply the acquisition of the cash register, so it brought the cost of every month for internet connection, registration, other things connected with the operation of the EET. Just because some associations are responding for, others are not, does not mean that all entrepreneurs would like EET today. I have always stressed in this argument that it is clear, of course, that large companies, large business chains, for them the acquisition of the electronic sales record system is, of course, a relatively small cost, whereas for a rural businessman, the acquisition and monthly costs associated with the EET are a much larger cost, which can really lead him to end his business rather than the one who thought about doing business would not go into it at all. After all, the estimate of several thousand pubs, especially rural ones, which ended because of the EET, is considerable evidence of this. I am glad that today we will be able to relieve the business environment and to relieve especially the smallest entrepreneurs who are the most threatened group and which we also need in our economy. For me, the EET and the important argument against the EET was that in their creation and in discussions on the creation of the EET here in the Chamber of Deputies and in the media space it was simply created because of it or not thanks, but because of the atmosphere that entrepreneurs are a specific group of our society, who live at the expense of others who are dishonest, who cheat. I believe that the rhetoric that accompanied the emergence of the EET and which simply made entrepreneurs a group that lives at the expense of someone else and which needs to be controlled, that this may be an even greater damage to our country...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u107	I will excuse you, Mr Vice-President, and I would like to ask all those in the O.R. if they are interested in discussing them in front of the O.R. And make it a quieter environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u108	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. I wanted to say that, in addition to the direct costs, I consider it perhaps even more damaging what accompanied the debate on the creation of the EET here in the Chamber of Deputies or in the media, when the idea that entrepreneurs are a specific group of our companies that cheats or even lives at the expense of the rest of society, which is precisely the opposite. Without entrepreneurs who do business and risk business every day and pay taxes, we would not be standing here in the Chamber of Deputies and not be able to approve any expenditure in terms of budget discussions, because it is the entrepreneurs who are the ones who implement the state budget. We've been hearing all day that EET is the tool we're fighting against the gray economy. I believe that this is an argument of not entirely general importance, because if you look at research into the size of the grey economy in the Czech Republic, the share of the grey economy in the Czech Republic is estimated at less than 10 per cent of gross domestic product, thus belonging to developed countries with a very low share in the grey economy in their gross domestic product and we have a similar number to Germany for example. But where we do not have similar numbers, where we are worse off, there is also the friendliness of the business environment. For example, Doing Business's various rankings from the World Bank show that our business environment is reregulated, administrative barriers and costs are in it. And instead of focusing on where we have a problem, i.e. on the cultivation of the business environment, on the removal of barriers in the business environment, we leave it, we lose competitiveness and instead we fight the grey economy, which we have at a very similar level to Germany, i.e. very low, and we bring another administrative burden that will make our ranking even worse in the Doing Business ranking. I believe that there is no need for EET because of what can be called technological progress, innovation. Here we heard how many restaurants started... or didn't take cards as a means of cashless payment. However, when we look at the total numbers, the macros, it is a clear fact that the share of cash-free payments in our economy is growing. While in 2017 it was around 20 percent, in the following years the share of cash-free payments is growing at a really fast pace and it is estimated that up to 70 percent of transactions will be carried out by credit card in 2025. Why do I say that? Because it is clear that, if the consumer pays with a credit card, it is impossible for the person who accepts the sales, in any way, to hide the sales, however much to avoid the tax liability. So instead of betting on standard technological development, where entrepreneurs spontaneously purchase payment terminals that actually replace the role of EET or registration cash registers, we instead push the project on which we inspired ourselves from Croatia, which is certainly not a country that could be considered as an example of the most innovative environment. I am convinced that EET in addition to the fact that it will lead to a reduction of administrative barriers and costs for our entrepreneurs (?), thanks to it we will also save hundreds of civil servants who were admitted to the Financial Administration due to the EET. I had one opportunity to witness such control in one rural restaurant, and although I do not want to generalize and I very much appreciate the high-quality employees of the Financial Administration, which we simply need to collect taxes and manage public goods and public spending, at least my experience of the arrogance of the couple who came to control the standard pub that worked in that country for many years was absolutely incredible to me, and even though I was in opposition at the time, I was ashamed of what state employees could present to state authorities such as the Financial Administration. We all remember the exemplary cases where draconian fines were made for chewing gum or for selling Tic Tac. I think that none of us - and I believe that this was not even the goal of those who proposed the EET and who advocated it, that it is not a situation that we would be proud of and that we would like to treat entrepreneurs, whether we are in opposition today or in a coalition. I think today is an important day. That today, if we approve the EET (?), we will once again send a clear signal that entrepreneurs are an important group for us, that we appreciate them. That we know that they are the ones who are pushing our economy forward, that they are the ones who are making money on the taxes that we are redistributing here, and that we are aware that the vast majority of them are decent businessmen. Which, of course, does not mean that the State should not, under the fair rules of the game, affect those who are not decent and who circumvent any tax legislation. However, I am convinced that it had and has the Financial Administration's instruments without the EET. [[12.30 hours]] Let them make use of them, let them try to expose and punish those entrepreneurs who violate tax laws, but I am convinced that we have the overwhelming majority of decent entrepreneurs who will appreciate that step today, because it will mean relief, financial relief for them, and I believe that we will be able to repair in the future the damage that has been done in that rhetorical sense that entrepreneurs and the rest of the public have become nasty suspects who must be online for 24 hours and prove to the state that they are not cheating. I respect entrepreneurs, and I believe that in the coming months we will succeed in cultivating the business environment and removing bureaucratic obstacles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u109	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The last person to sign up for the general debate is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u110	For the last time today, my colleagues and colleagues, I will appear as a second-class MP, as a colleague of mine has accused me of being here with the halo. I would just like to tell him, through Mr President, that we are all equal before God, unless this information has yet to come to him. So in 2016, electronic sales log was introduced. Many entrepreneurs have threatened to shut down establishments, to shut down business, and to make jumps more expensive. And none of that happened. After six years, however, businesses speak differently. The vast majority of entrepreneurs have got used to it and a large part of companies are still connected to the EET even though it is no longer mandatory. This was the most controversial adjustment of tax obligations in recent years, which sparked great passions not only in political but mainly in business circles. I would have expected Petr Fiala's cabinet to receive the same praise, but I see you're taking criticism too. Why? Everyone expected you to fight the grey economy, and businessmen admitted that EET could have been an instrument against the grey economy. We all expected that, in today's futile search for even the smallest savings, you would at least support a voluntary EET and not thwart the costs incurred by entrepreneurs, but mainly the costs incurred by the state. Oh, no. We need to wrap our proposal in pointless support arguments and, above all, you refuse to take into account the attitude of the unions and chambers that cover individual entrepreneurs and businesses and which submit their demands to you, and do not disturb them, or at least leave the voluntary EET, because most of their members are still doing so. What do they say? The system worked, was put in place and could bring some resources to the state. All operators have it, even those who did not have cashier systems have it, and now have more accurate data about their economy, even their employees, and have an overview of sales, says Stárek of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants. And what does their union say about that? The system, however, mainly removed the payment of employees in black without paid contributions to health and social insurance, which was reflected in wages and was definitely reflected in the Treasury. And maybe even these employees are the ones who would like to keep the EET at least in voluntary form. And we should take into account their demands to support applications for unions and chambers and assess whether volunteering would be the most appropriate solution, better than ending it. And for reasons I would like to say - firstly, representatives of unions and chambers who represent individual business entities, large, small, medium. It's required by the trade unions representing their employees. And really, even if you don't like to hear it, that makes up for the business environment, because some companies can't be sold without an invoice. An invoice, sir? Can you imagine a chemical or pharmaceutical industry that would abide by these conditions? That's not possible. So the environment isn't that straight. And we're not going to waste the costs spent on the business sector or the state. And because the EET was interrupted because of the covido situation and was not implemented in the whole business environment, it could not be sufficiently demonstrated by its effect and reach, and thus we evaluate the incompleteness of functionality and maybe we are all wrong. I'm not saying that you and we, maybe we're all, and it would be different, but we should evaluate the completeness. And if you feel that the EET is not fair to some sectors, then you have other instruments, you can solve it by introducing another amount of business tax from these sectors. And you could definitely fix it. And the last reason to leave the EET is - every crown that the state gets extra is important to our Treasury, because even the last million is made up of individual crowns. But I'm sure the Minister of Finance knows that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u111	Thank you, Madame. I have one point of fact, the last one so far, and this is Mr Volný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I can't forgive myself for this. I have always appreciated, and I hope to be able to appreciate again, my colleague Skopeček as a good economist and economic theory, but what I have heard has just completely derailed me. It seems to me that he woke up after seven years, looked out of that hole and said: Today is a great day, we are sending out a signal that we value businessmen's entrepreneurs and that we do not consider them to be dirty suspects! Mr. Colleague, did you hear the unions that report, fight, bang that they don't want to shut down the EET? How can you say that? They don't want it, they want to stay in the EET, they want to stay there voluntarily - and you're sending a signal here! Well, I didn't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. With the de facto Vice-President Skopeček. Do you want me to take that as a matter of fact?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u114	You can do it as a matter of fact, I'll be quick. Well, I'm surprised, colleague, that you're derailed. After all, we started this rhetorical exercise this morning at 8 o'clock on Czech Radio Plus and there were similar arguments. So I'm a little surprised by your theatrical performance in the sense that you're surprised by what I'm saying, because you've heard such arguments from me this morning and responded to them, unless you slept at the interview, but I don't expect that. The second thing is, I said that a number of entrepreneurs may be organized in unions, in the Chamber of Commerce, in the Confederation of Industry and Trade, but these are especially the larger ones for which electronic records of sales and their costs are not large in terms of their overall business in relative terms. But we fight and strive for a good business environment even for the smallest businessmen, the smallest small entrepreneurs, for whom the costs are simply high and who are not organized in any of these unions, and whose voice may therefore not be heard in the various media, but if you go around those rural businesses and entrepreneurs, they will tell you that it was simply a problem for them. So let's not be illusioned that associations that I otherwise appreciate and that I listen to and try to get information from them, so they just don't represent all entrepreneurs, and the smallest ones really aren't in these slopes and organizations. So that's not quite the relevant argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. Mr Volný Member is still responding to the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u116	Well, I am now, then, on behalf of my colleague, through Mr President. I know you're consistent and you've always been against EET from the very beginning. I'm just surprised that you're completely denying the opinions of those you're talking about doing this for them, and you're saying, if you would just go around... Mr. Colleague, I'm not from Prague like you, I'm from the village, and I'm just living through déjà vu, when we did it seven years ago, so I was the biggest jerk in the village and all the villages, in the pubs, why are we bringing it up, what we're doing and what we're doing here, and now after seven years, I'm hearing exactly the same thing, they're saying what kind of idiots you are, why are you interrupting it? So I'm in the loop, Mr. Colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u117	Thank you. The reaction of Vice-President Skopeček in the light of the factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u118	Mr. Colleague, if you want to fight me here, you better get ready for this fight. I'm not Pražák, I'm Středočech. I'm from a small town and therefore I have a pretty good overview of non-Prague businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u119	Thank you and I ask if anyone else wants to speak in the debate? Here I see Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I, courtesy of Luboš Kastner, board member of the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, will read, without changing the word, his statement today for the News List. [[The president is asking for peace in the hall, going to the finals.]] First I will read his statement and then I will read the statement of engineer Filip Sajler from the Czech Gastronomy Institute, otherwise you know him, he's a chef, a moderator, a food businessman. So I'm starting with Mr. Luboš Kastner's statement, an entrepreneur in gastronomy and a member of the Board of Directors of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurs' Association for the News List, just like he sent it to me a moment ago. He gave me kind permission to read it here. And I don't change a word. I quote: "Businessmakers have become accustomed to EET in the vast majority. The main argument that it brought administrative burdens is not true. It is only a function of cash systems, which are already the standard of our field and serve to manage in business. We can't and we don't want to run a pencil and paper business. We need a fundamental development of digitization and ethics in our field. We see the cancellation of the EET as a step backwards. The cash-flow system is one of the basic business tools and is also one of the fixed business costs. Objectively contributed to improving business ethics and comfort for the guest. We see the abolition of the EET only as a political struggle that unnecessarily affects entrepreneurs. It is true that the system has not been used to the fullest, for example in the creation of compensatory covido programmes. However, entrepreneurs already in the majority do not want to do business in the 90's model of business, they want to develop their business modernly. We need to create a modern environment for the development of our services, we need to digitize our approach and not go back to the 1990s, we need to create a stable environment for employees and entrepreneurs. We will deal with the end of the EET, but will suffer business ethics and comfort for the guest. We're not going the way forward, we're going the back." So much Luboš Kastner, an entrepreneur in gastronomy and a member of the Board of Directors of the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs. The second quote is a quote by engineer Filip Sajler, who acts as the Czech gastronomic institute, he is a chef, moderator, entrepreneur. I quote: "EET has been unnecessarily emotional since the beginning, yet it is a standard tool for governments to control tax collection and setting up a business environment. But according to the data, it worked this way in the Czech Republic and made a 100% contribution in the field of services to a certain settlement and removal of our field from a partially grey zone. The instrument was often associated with politics and unnecessary emotions. If it is pragmatically used and has undergone a certain evolution, it still has its reasons and determines clear conditions for business. We consider the abolition of the EET to be an unjustified, incomprehensible and incompetent political decision. There have been unnecessary investments on the part of the government and entrepreneurs, and this is a step that we are going back many years and again throwing services into the grey zone." Engineer Filip Sajler, Czech gastronomic institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. We have another candidate here with priority rights, and this is Vice-President Skopeček, you have the floor. I'd like everyone in the O.R. to keep their voice down for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u122	Just a few sentences in response to President Schillerová. Entrepreneurs got used to it. Well, in life, they say you can get used to things, even the worst things. Perhaps the thousands of rural pubs, or their owners, who had to quit because of the EET, had already gotten used to some other jobs that they had to accept after having had to shut down their operations for the EET. So, yeah, maybe they got used to being employees in some other operation or other job. Second thing. You called for digitization. Abolishing the EET does not mean banning digitization for any sector of the economy or for restaurants. We all know from the restaurants that we already have QR codes on some tables, and we don't need to call a waiter to pay, and certainly that's the technology that's there because the entrepreneurs themselves chose it, invested in it, rather than because the state forced them to introduce EET. Thus, even to the entrepreneur whose letter you read here, no one forbids digitalisation, and if he considers it appropriate that it will simply benefit the consumer or, for example, him having more control over his employees, he has the freedom and will to choose to invest in such a system. And believe, Madam President, that entrepreneurs will invest in this without forcing them to do so by your useless, expensive and ineffective regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. Mrs Balaštíková and Mrs Peštová will be ready, and I ask everyone in the room to calm down once more. The discussion had a very reasonable level, so please, let's make it to the finals. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u124	I thought I would perform for the last time, but I still want to ask you, Mr Skopečka, through Mr President. They had to quit because they didn't have $5,000 to register at the cash register and they didn't have Internet access, or they had to quit because they were forever VAT and tax payers, and they wouldn't have tightened it like that? Why did they quit? I wonder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, Madame. With another factual Mrs Peštová. And it's quiet, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u126	I'm sorry, I had the exact same question as Mrs Balaštíková had, but I really do care. I wonder if they ended up being set up by the EET, and how is that possible if there really was an answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u127	Thank you. There's no other real point. Once again, I'm asking if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate? I don't see anyone. So that concludes the debate and I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking with the final word? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u128	Yes, thank you. Just a few brief remarks, giving up some facts, rebutting some myths and pure lies, and then just a polite request to the Chamber of Deputies to support the bill. First, promises are to be fulfilled. We were against the EET, we were attacking it at the Constitutional Court, where we were quite successful. We ran with the cancellation of the EET, we didn't get any percentages, as one of the debaters said, but we won the election and we keep our promises. Secondly, entrepreneurs will not be able to use their digital systems. How did you figure that out? You who say so. How did you figure that out? How do you think? Have you ever seen a cashier's system? All we do is cut the online connection between the facility and the state. And the system works without it for those of you who think that by abolishing that law, they have to throw those systems away, stop using them. If they want to use the system to help them keep accounting, to control their business, to control their employees, of course, they can do so this year, next year, in two years. It's up to them, they don't need the law. [[12.50 hours]] You're gonna lose your money. You guys suggested shutting down the EET for 2022 and I didn't hear anybody lose money or the state budget during 2022. You're saying we shut it down when we shut down the premises. But that was March 2020. Or were you planning on shutting down all the establishments all year 2022? I think you didn't want them off all year. Then why did you leave the EET off? Mr. Kolovratník says he can do it, he's an excellent rhetoricalist, with a heartfelt voice: Entrepreneurs, believe us, you are our partners. And three sentences further: And if you shut down the link between the state and the entrepreneur, these partners will rob us of four, eight, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, twenty billion. All of these numbers were said today by members of the ANO delegation club. Are they partners when you assume they're stealing from the state by four, eight, twelve, thirteen, fourteen or twenty billion? They're not partners, they're dirty suspects. You don't know how they act yet, but you already know they're gonna rob the state. Mr Nacher asks: What will be the impact on the state budget? So if I don't assume they're dirty suspects and they rob the state, they're positive. Hundreds of millions of operating expenses for that useless black hole you call a voluntary EET, and I'm gonna save a lot of jobs for the Financial Administration. Voluntary EET. You have not been able to write a single advantage to those entrepreneurs in the amendment. Today, after a year's debate on the abolition of the EET, you say, let's think about what advantage we would suggest to those who will voluntarily send data to the state. Nothing. You just want us to create this possibility for hundreds of millions of crowns. And repeatedly. I know you've all been writing it down together for some collective exercise. Then you take some number that's false, false, inaccurate, choose, all the characteristics match. Sixty percent of entrepreneurs today voluntarily register. You said it eight times, about six members of the MP's club. I said, if you'd listen to me, you'd always say, "Listen to each other, listen to each other." And you mean, listen to us. So I made it clear that, according to the tax administration, it registered voluntarily in October, which means sending data somewhere that nothing's going on, 38 123 taxpayers. If it were 60 percent, as you so eagerly claimed, EET would still have to run 63.5,000 entrepreneurs today. And you'll admit that the number is completely out of reality. So the state saves operating money, the state saves money, no one takes the opportunity to digitally manage their business. They're not dirty suspects. We do not assume that they will rob the state of four, eight, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, twenty billion, and therefore, on behalf of the government, I would ask the Chamber of Deputies to approve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u129	Thank you, Minister. I wonder if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. No. In that case - and here I see an interest in a performance with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u130	Thank you. Only very briefly for the Minister. It is obvious that he returned at least in his thoughts to the opposition benches. Obviously. I think - don't lecture us, Minister, if we have any rhetorical exercises. You don't go to YES clubs. Please keep these notes. I remember a year and a half of you guys walking around with the same gigs over and over again to build an amendment to the EET Act. Everything we were drawing from was either from information when I was Minister of Finance or from data we could look up on the website of the Ministry of Finance, or from information, such as the seminar that my colleague Patrik Nacher organized here at the Chamber of Deputies on the topic of voluntary EET. The question is, of course, there are advantages, there are different deductible items. You know very well that the system connected to the Financial Administration has certain advantages, but we will not be convinced. We've been making sure for years. It's your ideology. Ideology of the ODS, which you have promoted above common sense, which you have promoted over the interests of entrepreneurs who today say absolutely the opposite. That's my period behind this thing. We're aware that you have a majority, that you're about to vote, and the EET era is over. But trust me, it won't bring you points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u131	Thank you. And please now, at this moment, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then he tabled an amendment and gave an opinion on it before the vote. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u132	Thank you. The Guarantee Budget Committee proposes the following procedure. First of all, we would vote on a fallen bill to reject the law. Then, in the procedure, I will propose to vote on legislative technical adjustments, but since no third reading has been presented, we would have skipped this point. Then we would vote on the only amendment you will find under the designation A, which is a proposal for a voluntary EET. And for point 4, we would vote on the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u133	Thank you. Well, yes, I can hear it now. I'm gonna ask you all to check out and apply again. And if I have rightly noted, Mr rapporteur, we will first vote on the motion for rejection. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] Yes. I'm gonna do some more work just in case. So we will now vote on a motion to dismiss the law. And I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 9, registered 137, for 49, versus 88. Denied. We can go to point 2 and that is the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u134	Yes, it is an amendment under letter A to the introduction of a voluntary EET. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. And I see an interest in checking out. We'll check out before the vote. Please sign up. I'm squeezing, I'm squeezing. It's on. We are therefore voting on the amendment. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered 141, for was 65, against 71. Result: rejected. [[13.00 hours]] Now, then, can we vote on the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u136	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered 142, for 92, against 50. Result: accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Mr. Tom Philipp is reporting for the floor.]] I'm sorry again. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u138	I'm sorry. I voted against in vote 10, but I've got a pro on drugs. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u139	So there's no question of voting. Anybody else have? No one else. Once again, the bill has been approved. Thank you. Mrs. Schillerová, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u140	So, with this decision and this vote, you returned to the nineties in which you were so well, and you lost any right to say that you didn't have money for people and companies because you voluntarily lost a plus minus 13 billion crowns a year. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u141	I'm begging you for a moment. Mr. Chairman Michálek is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u142	Sorry, just one sentence. Madam Speaker, ask your boss what he was doing in the '90s. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-001-001.u143	Madam Members, we have therefore discussed the 46th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with this. I remind you that on Tuesday, 29 November, we will continue the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which we will then interrupt, and at 14.15 we will start the 47th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you and have a quiet weekend.
