ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second day of the 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. I will ask that our participation be recorded so that we log out, and please log in again with your identification cards. I also say that Mr Jaroslav Dvořák is voting today with a replacement card number 31. I also say that the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: President Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 9 to 10.30 pm - working reasons, Babiš Andrej all day - working reasons, Babišová Andrea all day - working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav from 9 to 11 pm - health reasons, Bělor Roman from 9 to 12 pm - working reasons, Bernard Josef all day - medical reasons, Burešš Jan full day - working reasons, Exner Martin from 12 to 15 hours - working reasons, Fiala Radim from 9 to 11 hours - working reasons, Fischerová Romana from 14 to 23.45 hours - working reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav whole meeting day - medical reasons, Gazdík Petr whole meeting day - medical Marek, Hájek Martin whole meeting day - working reasons, Kasař David whole meeting day - working reasons, Kašník Pavel whole working day - medical reasons, Kocmanová Klára from 9 to 11 hours - working reasons, Kohajda Michael whole working day - working reasons, Kolář Ondřej from 9 to 11.30 hours - working reasons, Krutáková Jana whole working day - family reasons, Kubík Jan from 9 to 10 hours - working reasons, Lucie Novák whole working day - working Marek, Kuchař Jan whole working day - working day - working grounds - Vondráček days - working grounds - working grounds, liška Petr from 9 to 14 hours - Wenzl Milan, Nacher Patrik from 9 to 10.30 and from 13 to 18 hours - working reasons - working days - working days - working days - Karel Tureček, Naiclerová Hana whole working days - working days - working days - working grounds, Kariclerová Hana, New medical reasons - working hours - medical reasons - Vrána hours - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - Radek reasons - working grounds - Špičák Julius - working grounds - working grounds - working grounds - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - Šafránková days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working strýček - Jiří days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working And from the members of the government he apologizes: Minister Mikuláš Bek from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Helena Langšádlová from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Michal Šalomoun from 9 to 12 hours for work reasons and Vlastimil Válek from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons. That would be an apology for now. Today's negotiations should begin with the following firmly placed points. The first is item 164, House press 281, proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations; Furthermore, paragraph 18, House press 203 - international cooperation in tax administration; paragraph 30, House press 284 - draft law on the state budget for 2023; paragraph 24 is to follow. If we discuss these points, we should continue with the following points from the Act block at second reading: item 19, House print 218; item 20, House print 219... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'm gonna have to keep it down, please keep it down, thank you. Item number 19 and then we would continue to discuss the items under the approved agenda. At 1:50 p.m. we have a fixed ballot item number 132, changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to remind you that if item number 30 is not negotiated, Parliament's press 284, we will return to discussing it after paragraph 132, as we approved yesterday. And now I'm asking if anyone wants to complete or amend the approved 35th meeting? I'll read an apology in the meantime. I add an apology, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes from 9 to 9.30 hours for work reasons. And since I don't see the application for the agenda, we can move on to the first point of our approved, currently valid programme, and that is item 164, which I hereby open. It's about
