ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u1	29. Government Bill on explosives precursors and on the amendment of related laws (the Act on explosives precursors) /House print 197/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed, as I have already stated at this point, that we should give our consent to the draft law at first reading. Under the authority of the Government, the proposal should be made by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela, who is excused, so I assume that Mr Blažek, the Minister of Justice, will represent him again. So I would like to ask the Minister to introduce us with the motion submitted by the House of Press. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u2	Thank you for the floor. I will return briefly to the previous debate about my colleague Nacher. Since I am the Minister of Justice, I would like to point out that my colleague Nacher has not been attacked quite rightly, because if anyone is ever really prepared here, it is almost always my colleague Nacher, and I think the debate has been useless and is not entirely in this House. And the second point: democracy, procedural rules have not been created to hinder any debate, but to help the process of approving anything, including laws, in some way. So I consider the debate about what belongs in one or another cycle or part of a speech to be useless, and I ask that it no longer be done. Thank you. So, Patrik Nacher, through you sitting there next to me, I had to stand up for you, so I did because you got so angry, it's useless for me to ruin your health. Thank you. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] And now, please, to this bill. Allow me to introduce you to the Government's proposal for the Act on explosives precursors and the amendment of related laws, which I submit repeatedly, because in the previous parliamentary term, the Chamber of Deputies failed to discuss it. The reason for the processing of the bill is the adaptation of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you. I'd like some peace in the room. If there's anything you need to do, please go to the lobby! This is the Minister speaking. I'm sorry, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u4	The aim of the proposal is to introduce in the Czech Republic an appropriate regime for access to explosives precursors by the general public, which provides for a directly applicable regulation, to determine the appropriate competences of the state administration authorities and to adopt instruments to deal with possible infringements of certain obligations. The Act contains balanced restrictions which impose a minimum administrative and financial burden on the persons concerned, while not burdening the state budget. The rules laid down in the proposal are intended to prevent the unauthorised manufacture and misuse of explosives. In contrast to the existing regulation, the European Union regulation itself has repealed the so-called registration regime, extended the list of limited substances and mixtures and reduced the mass concentrations at which the listed precursors can be purchased and held without restrictions. Failure to adopt a bill would also entail an increase in the risk associated with unauthorised production of explosives and a resignation to prevent crime and possibly terrorism, in addition to possible sanctions by the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this material. And since this is an adaptation proposal for a law, when the deadline for adaptation to the Czech rule of law has already expired in February last year, I also propose that the Chamber of Deputies agree to this bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u5	Thank you, Minister, for putting forward the proposal. I had yet to mention the rapporteur to take the position next to the appellant, so I would ask that the rapporteur also come for the first reading, Mr Libor Turek, to introduce us to the news report. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Many have already been said here. The Government has already discussed and approved that draft law once and subsequently submitted it on 13 July 2020 Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a government bill on explosives precursors and on the amendment of certain laws. By the end of the term of office, however, it has not been discussed and the legislative process has not been completed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 23a to supplement this Regulation by I would like to point out that restrictions do not apply to natural persons or legal persons whose business relates to those explosives precursors subject to restrictions. Any failure to adopt legislation would pose a risk of easier access to devices for unauthorised production of explosives and a resignation to prevent crime and could result in a withdrawal in actions against the Czech Republic. The proposed legislation will not have, this has already been said, a negative impact on the state budget and on the business environment. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic proposes to agree with the proposed legislation at first reading, and I also politely ask you, honourable Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u7	Mr. Ambassador, thank you very much for bringing the news report. At this point in time, I would like to open a general debate on this House of the Press, to which Mr Marek Novák is registered in writing, so I would ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In fact, our esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, the Minister and the rapporteur have actually informed us in general about what the bill contains. However, I'll bring it closer to you and give you the position of our club. It has appeared in practice both at European and at the level of the Czech Republic a number of difficulties in enforcing existing import rules, making available, holding and using selected explosives precursors, which are actually chemicals and mixtures from which explosives can be prepared by natural persons. The effective fight against unauthorised production of improvised explosives is prevented in particular by the high limit mass concentrations of controlled chemicals, which are relevant for the access of natural persons to them and under the so-called registration regime. Furthermore, it is the fact that certain controlled chemicals are starting to be replaced by other unregulated substances in the illicit manufacture of explosives, as well as the non-single use of the existence of three arrangements for access by natural persons to explosives precursors by Member States. [[13.30 hours]] In order to improve the regulation of the making available and possession of explosives precursors, the European Commission, motivated by a number of attacks in European cities with the use of improvised explosives and recommendations of the Council of the European Union, has therefore prepared new regulations governing the conditions for making available exploitable substances and mixtures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-007-029.u9	Ambassador, I must interrupt you. It is 1:30 p.m. for which the election block is firmly placed, so I will have to interrupt the negotiations on this point in the general debate at the moment. [[I'm so sorry.]] And on this point, we will, if necessary, return, so I will put it to the top, and we will write that we have interrupted in the general debate. We're now at the Vote Block. I would ask the President of the Election Commission to take the floor at the speaker's desk. At this point, I will say that the elections that will take place today, so at the point
