ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 12/2020 Coll., on the right to digital services and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 287/ - First reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I just point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to this bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister for Digitisation and the Minister for Regional Development will be given by Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, Minister, take the floor. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Everyone in the room, please, if they can keep their voice down, or take care of what they need outside the O.R. Please once again very, especially the right part. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to a law that is in line with the Petr Fiala Government's programming declaration. It builds on activity, which was initiated, among other things, by the previous government. About 2018 the aim of the previous government - and it is a matter on which experts agree - was to build a strong central authority that can manage and co-manage digitalisation in the Czech Republic very agilely and actively: not an authority or ministry that fits into a vertical structure, but, like England, Estonia, or Denmark, to provide really inter-resurrection services, inter-resurrection expertise and know-how. I think now is an important time more than ever. When we look at developments in digitization over the past period, especially in comparison with the countries of the European Union and the index that experts look at - he describes various aspects of digitization of the country, Internet availability, number of services, number of people with digital identity - so the Czech Republic decreased between 2020 and 2021 in this European comparison. They're in the 19th place of 27 at the moment. Of course, in this index, partial supplies of services that are realized at resorts can help us, but really, digitalization of quality, fast, centrally controlled in the sense of standards is the alpha omega of successful mastery of the digital transformation. The law is now bringing about a change in coordination and governance. Twenty years since I've been involved in IT, and much of this, and in some way, I've been confronting events in the eGovernment area, it turns out more and more that, in addition to RVIS, the Information Society Council, there really is no know-how centre, where maybe the director would turn whether the system demanded or developed is in line with standards, is in line with the strategy, indeed this is missing. When we had the opportunity to talk to our colleagues both from Estonia and from Denmark and England, they are countries that rank among the leaders and everywhere is this arrangement. Why the agency as proposed? I was performing at a conference this morning. There was also a colleague králíček, who will perform after me, who is the rapporteur for this press. We were discussing this and it was said at the outset - the conference has such a quality. No matter who is with the government at the moment, who is the opposition, it brings together IT people who want to contribute in some way to the digitalisation of the Czech Republic. It has been said repeatedly that digitization, the effective and modern state, actually has no political colour, no political shirt, as they say, as we have succeeded - and I very much appreciate it - to build a strong partner to the NUKIB experts, which solves cybersecurity. The SAOKIB is here no matter who is forming a government coalition and holding a cybersecurity agenda for the Czech Republic, it is a partner of institutions in the Czech Republic and ministries. Similarly, it should be managed, and effectively managed, digitization and digital transformation in the future. The DIA or the Digital and Information Agency, which we present and is part of this law, is really intended to enable the Czech Republic to catch up with digitalisation leaders in the EU and there are a number of interdepartmental tasks ahead. On the draft package of legislation - it is the law, the law, it is of course a change of laws - more than half a year more than 80 people have worked not only on the central team, but also on teams at the Office of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Legislative Council of the Government, but also on people representing private sectors - consultants, professional associations, people that we could invite to the Czech digital team, which is a sort of body of experts who can benchmark or evaluate steps. As this legislation has been put forward, steps continue to be taken to establish the Agency from the inventory of assets, employee dislocations, premises, security clearances. If the law is passed on time - and the deadline is ambitious - the Agency could already carry out tasks that are also reflected in the priorities of Petr Fiala's government from 1 April of the fourth month next year. I would like to draw attention to a number of important issues relating to this method of management. Like I said, we come from foreign sources. While at the level of the Council of the Government for Information Society, it should be the Digital Czech Republic, whether it be the standards of development of European legislation, the direction at the level of the DIA is really competent, intermediate. This is not some new house software, it is an agency that will help coordinate digitization in the Czech Republic. [[17.10 hours]] One of the important elements - and surely you have met in your political activity, at least as rapporteurs on the committee or here in the House during the discussion - is the strengthening of the role of architecture and the role of the main architect. At this time, this role is stopped by Mr.Kuchař at all stages of Czech digitalization, not only when a solution is proposed at the start of the project, but indeed during the development of the information system, its deployment, and subsequently developing the entire systems as concepts. Every information system that the state would launch will not be evaluated only from the perspective: it is architecturally correct, systems communicate with each other, but architecture, technical solutions, economic solutions, value for money, whether the implemented system replaces human work, project aspects, whether the system produces data and shares data, what is the user experience - UX. In the DIA structure, all of this is remembered. The DIA will - that is not what the law is talking about, but we assume that they are being created - teams, so-called competence centers. Now that we're dealing - and I assume that the previous government had the same tasks - at some department of development, upgrades, solutions such as getting rid of vendor lock-in, ad hoc teams are created that help the minister at the resort to meet these standards, to figure out whether this assignment is in line with architecture, but also to propose solutions that we can build on unwitting contracts in the future, from this lock-in. These teams that will be created will help ministries with contracts, with transformation, but also with a change in digital service access. They're also called delivery units abroad. What is important about them - if you look at the business sector too, a large part of the supply entities that are programmed by the solutions do not have a partner in the state who could competently answer their questions. The contracts are extended by specifying what you're asking us to deliver. Delivery units should be able to solve this. The DIA will also operate shared services, and this was another part of the strategic consideration already in the previous parliamentary term, when the core digitization deserves a special budget chapter, strengthening and really lasting development, because they are central registers, registers of contracts and others that provide services to other entities, i.e. prospectively basic registers, but also new things that relate to higher-ranking solutions. What DIA is not - it is not hops or software house, it is no state - I don't know - IBM or any other company. The task is to not deliver solutions, but in cooperation with competent ministers, with the Office of the Government to determine a vision of services and to help implement it, coordinate it. methodically lead and share know-how and others. Part of those people who work for this agency will be separated from the Ministry of the Interior. If you look at any debates, then I will be happy to discuss with you and personnel issues, it will be a department of employees, who are at this point in time, for example, in the department of Mr. Kuchař or Mr. Vrba and deal with the central digitization, and new people are architects, contractors, user-friendliness experts and others. The costs of the project by transferring the basic register to them, so the number of offices does not really increase in any way. Naturally, however, the entire project will require budget costs, even if they are minimal. I consulted with the ministers, a large part of the costs is really a transfer - perhaps now a little hidden in the complexity - but the costs that have the systems that run under the Ministry of the Interior. The estimate is during the first year that it should go to 315 workers, 187 are existing employees who are working at the Ministry of the Interior or in the Administration of Basic Registers. Just for comparison, England has 900 people, Denmark 350, per population almost twice as many employees, Estonia 141 people, per population almost five times more employees. In particular, new jobs are necessary to strengthen long-term neglected agendas and competences. Moreover, we estimate around 300 million per year, while - but we have verified this - it was sometimes said that this cannot be done, but the competence teams can be posted and calculated on the basis of the National Recovery Plan, i.e. the extra cost is CZK 160 million per year plus the money that is already allocated to the teams under the Ministry of the Interior. Otherwise, I would just mention the link in the programming statement: "We will create central coordination and transformation teams in 2020 supporting the digital transformation of individual offices." The programme statement also talks about strengthening the capacity, strengthening the competence of project management. Just to conclude on this introduction - the state of eGovernment is not satisfactory, the individual steps that we want to move forward are in the current state without inter-resorative coordination of teams, not the person who orbits it from meeting to meeting, very difficult to realize, and the idea that we will succeed in achieving goals where digital tigers or states that rapidly digitize are able to achieve only in the existing structure is an idea that is not based on reality. I would then further comment in the debate, this introduction. I would like to ask you to support this proposal at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Robert králíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u4	Mr President, Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, I will try to add my report to the Minister. My report concerns the more functioning of the Digital Agency so that we can imagine it here. The Minister has taken this more extensively, so I will focus on the main principles of the proposed legislation. This is an up-to-date sharing of digital public administration services, where the development of digital services, cyber security, interests of the Czech Republic can be effectively and flexibly ensured, and the effective solution to possible problems, consolidation and interconnection of public administration information systems, including communication platforms and know-how, which would also monitor the provision of unified and harmonised services for public administration clients throughout the Czech Republic. The implementation of these primary principles will create an environment and institutional background in which other principles of digitally friendly legislation, namely the principle of interoperability, i.e. the construction of services that are interconnected and usable ideally in European and international areas, can be met in a secondary manner; The principle of digitalisation as a standard, the development of the electronicisation of public administration, should always be conditional on improving user friendliness and user experience for public administration clients, the principle of maximum sharing of data and re-useability of data and services, or on or around data, not on a person - through better communication between public authorities, among other things, a more efficient and easier sharing of data and data about citizens of the Czech Republic will occur, so that citizens will not have to fill out further and more forms in every interaction with public authorities - the principle of openness and transparency of data and services. The Act brings the following main changes: Establishment of a Digital and Information Agency, also the abbreviation DIA. The DIA will be established as a central government body. During the preparation of the proposal for a substantive solution, several legal forms were considered and the central administrative authority was chosen as the most appropriate. The form of the administrative office is necessary as the DIA will also carry out state administration, in particular in the electronic identification section of qualified funds. It will be an organisation which, by its nature, provides services to the entire public administration, therefore does not make sense for it to be subordinate to one of the ministries. In addition to the impacts of organizational in practice, there would be a conflict between the interests of the DIA and another agency of the resort, there are also budgetary impacts. To finance a particular service to all authorities, only one ministry's budget cannot be regarded as a fair arrangement. [[17.20 hours]] There will also be a transfer of two organizational units from the Ministry of the Interior to this new central body, namely the branch of the main architect eGovernment and the department eGovernment. Several employees from the ICT Coordination and Communication and eGovernment cloud departments will also be transferred. The scope of these unions is superior. And if the responsibility for digitization goes to the new central administrative office, it lacks any further sense to maintain these services at the Ministry of the Interior. The DIA will also operate the so-called competence centres. Competence centres are units which focus experts or thematically focused professional capacities for their subsequent use across the entire state administration. In order to create a modern and sustainable office, the establishment of these mentioned competence centres is needed as a good investment in future periods and their incorporation in the law. This ensures stability and the possibility of long-term planning, including, for example, project financing. The competence centres meet acute and persistent needs across the state administration, are the cornerstones of the DIA's tasks, which is capable of being a leader in the digitalisation concept and at the same time a postcard assistant to state bodies. It also includes implementation of foreign practice and delivery units. Three competence centres are planned within the DIA. I'll cut it a little bit later so we won't be here too long. Another change or another new motif of the law is the new coordination and digitalisation management settings, which is what the Minister has been talking about. The whole of the organisation, coordination and management of digitization can be summarized by an overview of its distribution to several levels using all the know-how and top experts offered by the state administration. The transformation of existing structures of the Ministry of Interior and the Administration of Fundamental Registers will create a new central government body, a Digital and Information Agency, which will take over a large part of the powers and responsibilities of the Ministry of Interior in the field of digitization of public administration. At the same time, the Minister - the President of the Legislative Council of the Government - will be enshrined in an analogy with the Minister - the President of the Council of the Government for Information Society. This will ensure that the Digitalisation Agenda will always be represented in the Government, but at the same time it is not necessary for it to be a separate minister, any member of the Government can be entrusted with this function. The Minister responsible for digitalisation will perform a coordinating and information function with regard to the DIA, while proposing to the Government the appointment and withdrawal of the Director of the Agency. The strategic level is characterised by strategic coordination at the level of the Minister, the Chairman of the RVIS, tactical and operational and/or execution level belongs to the Digital and Information Agency. This also carries with it the level of their coherence, the natural and desirable cooperation of both entities and complementarity. The next item is the transfer of competences to the Digital and Information Agency. In connection with the establishment of the DIA, a number of laws are being amended which entrust the competence of the field of digitization to the Ministry of Interior and the Administration of Basic Registers. These competences will now be entrusted to the DIA. Administration of basic registers as administrative office subordinate to the Ministry of the Interior by amending Act No. 111/2009 Coll., on basic registers, transforms into DIA. Transformation of the Basic Registers Administration is an appropriate solution in terms of effective and superior central coordination, digitization of public administration, mainly because of the transfer of digital agendas, which have so far been under the authority of an administrative authority subordinate to one department, to a senior central administration. The management of basic registers currently, among other things, implements links between individual basic registers and between registers and agenda information systems. These activities are of the nature of the matter of an absolute nature and relating to several departments. The DIA will undoubtedly have in many respects more effective tools and a stronger position in promoting state-wide information technology across the state administration as well as in the current agenda of the Basic Registers Administration, which it takes over. It is also a modification of the powers of the main architect of eGovernment. The branch of the main architect eGovernment has two groups of tasks. The first is a strategic and conceptual activity entrusted by law to the Ministry of the Interior. This will be partly transferred to the DIA, partly to the Minister and, respectively, the Chairman of the RVIS. The second group of tasks concerns the management of this department and the approval of the eGovernment project. This will be extended and transferred to the DIA. The next item is a separate budget chapter. Large digitization projects are, by their nature, superior. They serve all the organizational components of the state, as well as the authorities and so on. Nevertheless, they must always be financed from the budget chapter of a ministry. It is also not possible to build a strong competence centre in these conditions, where experience and expertise could be concentrated, which could then be used by other authorities in synergy. As a solution, a transfer of budgetary appropriations for digitisation is proposed in a single budget chapter, the manager of which will be the DIA. This chapter will subsequently finance digitalisation projects of superior and national importance, which, by their nature, serve all the national-shared services. This will result in both transparency in the numbering and monitoring of the expenditure on digitisation, and will ensure a clear purpose-setting of these funds, and the impossibility of transferring them to other purposes without a decision by the Government, and in the case of the competent committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which is crucial for long-term planning. In addition to the necessary changes related to the establishment of the DIA as the central administrative office, the regulation of the competence law will need to be anchored as an agenda entrusted to a member of the government. Based on the evaluation of the variants, we have concluded that there is no need to establish a separate Minister of Digimation, but the model of the Minister responsible for legislation will be taken over, which can either be independent or be associated with another function in the government. It is a solution essentially legislatively anchoring the current factual situation. However, legislative anchoring is necessary for technical reasons; it is not legally possible to impose the tasks of the institutions which are now established only by the Government's resolution. Regulation of the State Enterprise Act - following the above analysis, it will be necessary to ensure that the State Enterprise can be subject to a central body, which is not headed by the Minister. However, the envisaged law creates only the possibility of this change, whether it will actually be used and whether there will be any organisational change on the part of NAKIT's state-owned enterprises and services centres, it will be up to a government decision which does not prejudice this law. Conclusion - the existing legal framework and the structure of public authorities governing digitalisation does not create sufficient conditions for successful and effective digitalisation of public administration, as the Minister mentioned. The current legislation governing the structure, powers and powers of public authorities in the field of digitisation of public administration and central shared services is characterised by a kind of fragmentation of legislation and the absence of a central authority, which could fully focus only on this agenda. The current structure of the public authorities involved in digitalisation is therefore difficult to read and unmistakable for recipients of legal standards. The Ministry of the Interior is the central administrative office responsible for electronic identification and trust services and for the area of public administration information systems. However, within the Ministry of the Interior, this agenda is rather marginal due to its scope. Moreover, it is only an area of information systems of public administration, not digitalisation as a whole. As far as so-called shared services are concerned, they are unsystemically classified as individual resorts. This creates a not entirely logical situation where the operation of the system, which is determined by its nature to all, operates one resort on its cargo and responsibility. These services are often provided through an organisation subordinate to the Ministry. For example, the National Agency for Communication and Information Technologies, a state enterprise, is subordinate to the Ministry of the Interior. The State Treasury of the Shared Services Centre is subordinate to the Ministry of Finance. This situation, where some state-owned enterprises are crucial for effective service sharing only to certain sources, in which they cannot cooperate effectively with other ministries and with other central administrations, is fundamentally unsatisfactory from the point of view of digitising the entire public administration. In the current structure of the key bodies for the digitalisation of public administration, the principles of the digitalisation of public administration arising from the government's conceptual and strategic documents cannot even be met effectively. I shall just repeat that it is proposed that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposed law pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u5	Thank you and I hereby open a general debate. And before the general debate... [[This is Mrs Schiller.]] Okay, of course. Here's to general, okay. So I am opening up a general debate with this and we have several entries, but with priority rights, President Schillerová is reporting to the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to apply the veto according to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure according to two parliamentary clubs, the club of the ANO movement and the club of the SPD movement, after hearing the speaker, Minister Bartoš, as well as the rapporteur. We support digitization, and I think that for the fact that we've done a lot of work on it, our government, no matter what we say to each other, but we think that this kind of adjustment wants a debate that it shouldn't be approved in the '90s. It should not be approved at first reading because there are a number of institutional interventions. It is unclear to us what the links to the Ministry of the Interior are, we are not quite clear about the importance of this agency, we are not clear about the budgetary implications, so we would like to discuss the classic three readings. And, of course, we want to be able to apply the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u7	Thank you. So I get it right, is it the veto of two clubs? Yeah, so we're going in normal mode. In this case, therefore, I am opening up the debate, or the debate has been opened, but we are continuing the debate and we have several entries. So I would like to ask the first, and this is Mr. and rapporteur Robert králíček at the same time. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u8	So one more good afternoon. Now I'm going to express my views. Before I tried to read the correct news report, now I can comment. Some management manuals always say: Start positive, so I'll start positive before I start critically afterwards. They say it's better, and the discussion is much more pleasant. I think the idea is good. As has been said in the news report, and I agree with the Minister on that, is that digitalisation should be dealt with above all. It's true that the model of the government clerk wasn't even the right one. In the last government, the government's attorney didn't have the power, and he didn't have the opportunity, it was very difficult for him to do the ministry, because he wasn't actually anchored anywhere in the legislation, and there was no relationship. That's what I think is right, and that's what we agree on. Where we don't agree anymore, it's the resemblance of the agency. When I've prepared the news report, the establishment of the agency and actually the way I've read it now, I'm going to repeat this: "As a solution, the transfer of funds for digitization is proposed to one budget chapter, the manager of which will be the DIA." It reminds me terribly of the debate about the establishment of the National Sports Agency. It is very similar in the fact that there will be an allocation of funds to one agency, which will govern a relatively large budget, and when I think of the disapproval of the pirát to manage this National Sports Agency, I am now surprised by the conceptual turnover and the establishment of the Digital and Information Agency. I believe that at this time and as quickly as the Minister wants - and there the 90th - I think it is not good and I am glad that the veto is there, that we can take it to the committee, we can prepare amendments and that we can discuss this because I personally do not defend the idea, on the contrary. I think we should work it out, and we could work it out across the political spectrum, as we did in the last parliamentary term, come up with some comprehensive amendment and agree on the form of the Digital Agency, or find another appropriate solution within the existing structure, because, as the Minister has also said, let us look in detail and specifically, whether we are specific and factual, individual points. I'm not gonna start with the financials, I'm gonna start with something else. If I take our comments, the first one, § 2 para. "The Agency shall play a coordinating role in the field of digital services and digital actions under this Act. The conflict with the law on the right of a citizen to digital service is solved only by the front office services according to the catalogue of services, i.e. the submission of a citizen and the exit from the public administration. It does not address the level behind it, it is the department of DIA public administration, the sharing of data is at the level for the front office." The question is: who will coordinate the services at the back office level? I may have misunderstood, but that's the first question or the first complaint. Secondly, according to the explanatory memorandum, "the assessment of the legal situation in force is simultaneously characterised by the fragmentation and absence of the central authority." Here I have not noticed any effort and correction not only in the nine months when this government is, but also - it must be said, in the last parliamentary term, on the contrary, the creation of a law on the right of a citizen to digital service has just come into existence. So I don't understand much here, but I'm sure we'll find an answer. It is further noted that "the current structure of the public authorities involved in digitalisation is then difficult to read and unmistakable for the addressees of legal standards'. That is why I would just say that if I took this data from the explanatory report, I think that it will be fragmented at the moment and that something is being done by the Minister at the MMR, something is at the Office of the Government and something is on the inside, so there is just for me, as I would say, the illogicality in the fact that not entirely logically individual trade unions from the Ministry of the Interior are moving here and the key laws such as the competence, the statistical service, the state enterprise and others are changing. For me, there is no understanding of the whole digitization as a whole, I believe. It's just a tool for easier functioning of public administration, but I'm a little bit aware that it's possible here, that we actually have to embrace it. But you said it wasn't just about IT technology and information systems. You also write that "there will be a transfer of two organizational departments of the Ministry of the Interior, namely the department of the main architect eGovernment, eGovernment department and several employees of the Information and Communication Technology Coordination Department and eGovernment Cloud. " Here I would ask: Why don't you, for example, move public administration, supervision and control supervision under the DIA as well? The law on the right of a citizen to digital service was a response, which you also state, to the lack of integration and exchange of data between the authorities, to the unwillingness of the authorities to share data and to provide them with each other, despite the fact that this obligation has been enacted since 2012. By the way, this law, which we approved in the past period, is also effective, but it is not being implemented. So here I have to say, it doesn't seem very logical either. For another - you also mention consolidation and interconnection of information systems. I'd like to see some specific data there, because we've been talking about data connection for a very long time, nine months have gone by, and so far nothing. So here, then, when we see the effectiveness of the law from 1. 1. 2003, is the question whether it will really start to work, or will it be 2024, and the Digital Services Act is supposed to work in January 2025. It also mentions that "thanks to better communication between public authorities, data sharing and data on citizens of the Czech Republic will be more effective among themselves." I'd also like an explanation of how you're going to do it here, because in the sake of the beginning, there's your criticism. Four... "DIA is to be established as a central government body'. I would like to ask here how the legislative initiative will work. If the Director is in charge of the Agency, can or cannot he implement the legislative initiative? Who's it gonna be? Will it be the Chairman of the LRV, the Chairman of the RVIS? For me, there's completely lack of insight, and there's no logic. [[17.40 hours]] Fifth, you write: "The DIA is to operate so-called competence centres, to concentrate experts or professional capacities for their subsequent use across the entire state administration. " Here - and I'll get to that later - you mentioned whether I was wrong, the total number of new seats, not those moved, because here within the DIA, 185 jobs are expected to be moved from existing transformed units and the total number of new ones is estimated to be another, if I'm right, 120 seats. And my question is, where do we get them? I think that this is a rather ambitious plan for the government, which already lacks experts on any digitization, cyber security, whatever it is that you think is a new digital transformation, so here I have a fundamental concern where we can get these experts. And then I'd like to ask you how you're going to force individual departments to cooperate with each other in quotation marks. How do you explain or convince them to listen to experts? Or you will find 120 new experts, and how will you convince the ministries and their departments, especially the IT department, that they should listen to the experts from the DIA to cooperate? How will this cooperation take place? Next - I would like to ask, I do not understand certain competences. Why, for example, will the DIA not be the manager of all information systems, such as population records, civil documents and travel documents? Another point - the powers of the main architect's department. The first group of tasks, strategic conceptual activities, will be partially transferred to the DIA and partly to the Minister - the President of RVIS, the second, management and approval, will be transferred to the DIA. Here I'd ask the main reason, it doesn't make sense to me or logic - why are you smashing it like that? For another - the law assumes the subordinate of a state enterprise to a central body, at which the minister is not the head. You publicly declare that this will concern NAKIT, even though you write that you are creating only the possibility of this change by law and that if it is used, it will be the decision of the government. So I'd like to ask, what's the actual plan? Will he be physically transferred? Is it just gonna be NAKIT, or is it gonna be the Department of Finance Service? Next - if a new state enterprise is created under the DIA, until then can only the Ministry set it up, what will be the case with public procurement? You publicly declare that the purpose of the DIA is also to strengthen horizontal public procurement. Does this mean that a state enterprise under the DIA will be able to deliver outside the scope of the Public Procurement Act, and this to all the directors? And for another - finance. Project expenditure on transformation, coordination and management of digitization is estimated at CZK 38.2 million. Their drawdown is planned this year and financial collateral is an increase in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. Current operating costs are estimated at 260 million, of which around 159 million are personnel costs, the operating costs are 54, software, reports, consultations and other services 36, 11 will serve as a reserve. Sources of funding include three - moving existing budgets of the services that are transforming, funding from the state budget beyond the existing budgets of these departments and maximum use of the National Recovery Plan. Within the framework of the DIA, 185 seats are expected to be moved from existing transformed units, where the transfer of the financial envelope is envisaged, and 44 additional posts requiring funding beyond the current budget are expected to increase, and the total number of such posts is estimated to be 120 million. Another 81 necessary posts are budgeted with the possibility of covering from the National Recovery Plan. Competence centres - workers will request about 95 million, their technical equipment, consultancy and so on will require 16 million, other operating costs will be around 28 million, i.e. the total cost per year of the National Recovery Plan for 2023 is based on 140 million. Another impact beyond the budget of existing services is the apparatus of the Minister and, respectively, the President of the Council of RVIS. It will include 16 existing seats and 36 additional seats will be added to them. The existing sites and operations are set aside for 31,3 million, 36 new sites will cost an additional 33 million, and another 6.6 million are additional costs, i.e. an overall increase of almost 40 million. Maybe a little prick here - I'd like to ask, where is the slimming of the state administration? You mention a return of 18 to 24 months according to foreign experience. I might bet, and if we meet here in three years, whether it works or not. Another point - you write that the bill does not bring new interventions in the field of transfer of confidential information to privacy or personal data. And I'm asking, how do you guarantee it won't happen? The draft law significantly affects agendas that have significant implications for the processing of personal data. So I'm asking about the guarantees, how it's going to go, and how it's going to move? And in conclusion, maybe two more things. In the explanatory memorandum, you're writing an assessment of the corruption risks. I know I will piss you off and prick you, but you are writing - I quote that "the proposal does not increase corruption's risks compared to the current legislation, because the substance of the proposed regulation is of a character that should not have a bearing on corruption as such'. It's a little evocative to me that the Department of Interior's trade unions are currently at risk of corruption, but so be it. And the last one-- and I guess, now I have to look to make sure I don't lie, I think it was §60, but I really don't want to be wrong... It's Section 60a - and that was one of the reasons why I think it shouldn't be in the '90s, but we should put it on the committee, and I think it should be discussed on the Security Committee as well. That section 60a is a secret service approach, and I think it's a matter of actually quite sensitive discussion. That is why I suggested, Madam President, that we continue to discuss this. So when I sum up the conclusion, and I apologize for the length, but the material is quite complicated, and the Minister's decision is quite fundamental. I think it would be good to really sit on it again and try to find a match. I know we don't agree on everything, as there has been a long discussion on the law of the citizens' right to digital services. I don't want to discuss this for three years, like we did last term, but I think I'm gonna find time for the Public Administration Committee and maybe give it one whole committee to really tune things up, and there's some consensus across the political spectrum - because here I'm not trying to attack the pirát as a political party, but I think some things are probably conceptual where we disagree, so I'd like to have a wider discussion there. All I'm saying is that it's going to take about half a billion to set up the agency and then we're talking about 300 million a year, so I'm not doing it for some pre-election reason - but if you take it to set up the agency, the question is whether we're not going to find a more effective solution right now, and we're going to keep the basic idea of digitalization going on so we can centralize the agenda, which, as I say, I'm going to agree with the Minister, and we wouldn't do it more efficiently at this point and we wouldn't use the National Recovery Plan, the 140 million you want to use, so we need to invest right now in the Basic Registers Administration, where they are needed, and maybe for other projects. [[17.50 hours]] But I'm saying, here's just a little bit of a conceptual change of that thing. I see for myself the biggest of Achillův' heels that we can't get experts into the Digital Agency because I think it's a general problem. And if so, I'm afraid that by crossing over or by setting up an agency and announcing 140 vacancies, we might not be robbing public administration and IT experts from smaller urban areas, from smaller municipalities or anything like that again. That is probably all for now, and I thank the Minister for his attention, patience. And you, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u9	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond with priority. And I will just apologize to Mrs. Jana Berkovcová from 16 to 17 hours for work reasons, and Mrs. Renata Zajíčková from 18 to 22 also for work reasons. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u10	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond to both Mrs Schillerová and Mr Králíček. I would probably just like to thank the rapporteur for the fair report and the things that have been said in, say, the more critical note, because I think that these are questions that I can answer here. So, as I noted in the '90s, I would like to announce that I would therefore propose a reduced committee hearing for 30 days. And now to the substance of the individual reservations, I will try to react quickly. There are no clear ties to the Ministry of the Interior: there are no ties at this time - or after the transformation - remain. The institutions that are at the moment and their separation will take place - the architecture has been mentioned here and others - are moving into this new entity and all the ties that are at the moment, even then contractual in relation to NAKIT - and that is the second question that has fallen here - just remain in those contractual relationships. However, the analysis of legislation and addiction is one of the parts of the work that has been done since the beginning of the year, and in the background I will give Mr Králíček here just one presentation, but it's just something I might have given him this morning when we talked about it in Mikulov. And I'll keep going. I was trying to explain the functionality of the agency... The Agency's importance is not clear: coordination of digitalisation in the Czech Republic, support for central solutions and over-the-counter systems. On budgetary implications: I mentioned this when we look at the chapters of the costs that are at the Ministry of the Interior for matters that will be divided - these are the costs that are existing and are planned at the moment within the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, but the actual impact on the state budget, if I deduct the recovery plan that we want to use on the competence centres is 160 million, the exact number is in those materials. Then I wanted to respond to the comparison with the NSA: I know it's painful, sport, but it's more like, say, the cross, the domain of the Ministry of Education, and then I don't know. I don't think that sport can be seen as a superior thing to communicate with and deal with all the ministries of this state, although it would be a good thing if everyone were to play sports. So comparison with the NSA or sports agency isn't entirely appropriate. I remember when we had the debates, so we had a lot - and it was Mr Bartoň, who was very active - of the various proposals for measures, of the management to increase the transparency of handling. Not everything went well, but I wouldn't compare it with the agency, the National Sports Agency, because the DIA is to serve as a partner to individual ministries in the field of digitalisation management. Another question that was here - yes, the current system of bodies of many of those, say, associated companies like NAKIT, CPSS and others, is not entirely logical, so we are trying to consolidate the very central agendas. I understand that even given the issue of professional positions, it is attractive for a number of ministries to have one of their own NAKIT. Even when we look at the last term, I thought - if the covid had not come, I assumed that the appointment of Mr Dzurilla to the leadership of the two mentioned here, NAKIT and CPSS, was an advance in order for a subsequent transformation to take place. I think that it was covid and tasks related to the digitalisation solution in the covid that led to the process to stop. Why it does not move to the DIA supervisory and control department: the supervisory and control department is heading towards the performance of public administration, does not control the state of digitization in the Czech Republic. In my opinion, the interior department belongs quite adequately, and there is Deputy Minister Sláma responsible for the newly established department or section of the state administration. So there I would... maybe I would have chosen the wrong example, but even individual agendas, or individual systems, as Mr králíček asked here - you can't take everything at once, convert it all. Of course, all these systems, every system or central system that's analyzed, then either shifts according to the evaluation, or not. How the legislative initiative will work with the DIA: just as now with all public authorities, let it be SAKIB, SSHR, SÚJB, UHOS, UOU - a member of the government responsible for coordinating and informational tasks. That's something that works a long time ago. I'm going to borrow the parallel again because I think cyber security is also a high-level thing. In the event that the NÚKIB comes with a proposal, it is either a proposal submitted by the Prime Minister himself, because the relationship of the NÚKIB - is subordinate to the head of the SACCIB to the Prime Minister. Of course, it could be coordination with a resort if this thing specifically concerns a resort. 160 new employees: if I wanted to downplay it - but I didn't - I'd say in the labour market. However, we are very intensively negotiating with the Civil Service Section, especially in order to be able to pay the experts in general in the public administration. This is not entirely a question of the law, it is also a question of the culture of remuneration. And if the state can't find people at the moment, there's no reason to resign from trying. I think that, say... the agency, unlike I'm going to do IT for any resort - I don't want to touch any resort, if it has a high-quality leadership, it's gonna have a good director, it's gonna have good projects, and it's gonna make sense for those people, so it's attractive. When I take an example from the UK, a lot of people go there to get spurs, when some of their lives are delivered by educated young people to the state administration. Of course, at some point, the commercial segment will offer them a much better financial valuation with this practice. They leave, however, often become employees of companies who are in charge of communicating with the state administration as future suppliers, and the know-how they have is very high. Then there was a question about the transfer. Perhaps also: by the end of the year, the timetable for the transfer of individual information systems is being prepared. The register of residents has another specialty that they enter information about the village, the register and others. There would still have to be a reform in the context of a single disclosure, so that's the question that... The central place of service, for example, is some year 2026 - it is not a thing that we would now sprint. Maybe I wanted to respond to one more thing. I was, of course, in the right to digital service and I am glad for cooperation, which was very, very intense, regardless of who was in government, who was in opposition, who was in what department. Eventually, together, we passed the law. I take it that he was a covid, that the few people who are relatively few in the institutions or in the IT sections of the ministries had other tasks, but we said: above all, we should work intensively on this so that we do not reach the moment when the vast majority of services will be digitized in the last year, because the catalogue of services will be completed either formally or at all. Here - and it has to accelerate, it is one of the tasks - is to fulfill the citizens' right to digital service just by coming to resorts that deal with the crisis, solve social welfare systems, come and say, expose it to data somewhere as another work, it is taking place slowly, by 2025 we would not be able to do it without coordination and acceleration at this time. [[18.00 hours]] Public procurement - we are now preparing to amend the law on public procurement, it is not in this package, it will exist independently and, of course, the horizontal is then completely desirable. I have also heard concerns about the business segment, that it will in some way reduce the scope for companies supplying the state. I don't think so. When I look at projects in the National Recovery Plan - the total amount of money to go into digitization in the coming years - and then I look at the actual capacity of delivery software companies, which, for example, supply some solutions to the state at the moment or are in some kind of tenght, I think it will definitely not be so that, thanks to the horizontal in the solution of some services, or even even after that, there would be some capacity of cooperation. But I am happy to talk about this because - and we have declared this - even the digital transformation must be the cooperation of the state, companies, the professional public, the academic sector, NGOs. [[digital?]] However, this does not mean that we would resign from public procurement and procurement. The budgetary implications - one of the things that is essential is the metrics of the administration's performance, and, as I remember, Vlado Dzurilla was given a task that was then not carried out, and it was actually to measure how much individual actions cost us to know how much one stamp costs, how much one submission was done. It was supposed to be a dashboard somewhere in the Ministry of Finance -- maybe it was internal, I don't know, I didn't find anything like that now -- where it's supposed to turn out that if an act costs so much and so much in the number of citizens served, and if it digitizes or automatizes, then the investment or the money will no longer have to be spent. I think that is the fundamental principle of digital transformation. The effects of reducing the cost of processes are common in comparison, which will save the number of people if we make the transformation. I don't think I'm gonna drag this out any further. Guarantees that there will be no interference with the processing of personal data - that is where basically nothing changes. The legislation is the same, even employees are the same, the label on the door changes. We're consulting this thing with the SACUIB, we're consulting with the stakeholders. And even though we have consulted - and we can have fun afterwards, because I assume that this part will be dealt with on the committees - there is no access, there is no access to those systems alone in the area of secret services. I, too, as a pirate, always examine what the wording in practical terms means if there is any special part that concerns state or secret services. Let's talk about this. And, of course, the question of the authorities' agendas that it would somehow reduce agendas - it is not so. Of course, the systems or agenda systems that support individual laws remain there. But then you need a planned project Portal builder or Portal entrepreneur and there it is no longer that it is an MMR because it has a construction law. These are, indeed, systems that require a highly superior approach to the use of existing data registers from many other areas. And here there was some 500 million more to set up the DIA -- I think that's some kind of misunderstanding. There's no such cost. The only costs that we had at our disposal for the entire work started at the beginning of the year were the promised CZK 38.2 million. I think we didn't even draw - far from to this extent, and it was the cost of the transformation project. At the beginning, I mentioned who those Stakeholders, those 80 people were, at this point, employees of, like, cooperating ministries. The central team at the Office of the Government, which is subject to or directly below me, is not set up at this point in the section. And I'm actually glad that we've done the preparatory things together, let's say, without extra costs. And then those first-year requirements - we're already talking about 160 million from the state budget, 160 or 150 million from the National Recovery Plan. Again, I think the amount will be even lower at the given time, because if we have a run to 1. 4, so we're actually only talking about three quarters of a year. But, of course, the recruitment and actually the performance of the posts will take place from the establishment of the agency itself and within some framework, let's say professional communication. At this point, I have the opportunity to talk to people who are already declaring an interest that they should work on a position in such an agency out of love for the Czech Republic and digitalization. Well, I hope this enthusiasm is permanent, and when it gets here, these people will be taking positions in classic competitions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u11	Thank you, Minister. In fact, the rapporteur came forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u12	Just a little comment I could write down. I don't think the NÚKIB is the ideal example either. If you're blaming me for the NSA, I think the SACCIB is a little different than what you're presenting. And you're saying you don't see the problem with these people. On the contrary, I see a fairly big problem that if you come up with an agency that - now don't take my word for it - is going to have 320 people, of which 180 will move there... I don't know how many people... I don't know how many people can be needed for some reason that they won't want to move, leave, and I think that 140 people getting into the state administration in the area of digitalization is a fairly large pie or a big task for you. And that's where my question was headed, for example, if we were to fill in, leave the agenda or centralize the agenda somewhere in the current structure and fill these things gradually, so this agency could be born in some way at some point in time, I don't say ten years again - don't take my word for it now, but within, like, a year or two, if we pushed these people there, centralized some of the services, agendas and systems, then we could somehow set up the agency or the Digital Agency in some way by this law. Don't just set her up like this suddenly, because I'm afraid we're gonna have a problem with the functionality after that. First of all, there was this concern, and I know it was a problem - and that is not a complaint directly to you, Minister, but the problem in general - again, as I mentioned, as I read it, so I don't know if the change to the competence law will really force the department to cooperate with the agency. That's where I see the big problem, the resortism. It was a problem in the past. I don't think even the DIA is gonna figure it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u13	I'm gonna have to cut you off. We're running out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u14	I'll sign up later, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u15	Okay, thank you. We can go to another duly signed up for the general debate, and this is Mrs Dostálová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon again, colleagues, Minister. Well, for starters - of course, nothing against digitalization, I don't think anyone has here, but I really have to laugh about the fact that here, at this time, at a time of unprecedented crisis, we're talking about the creation of a new agency that costs hundreds of millions, it's going to have to hire new officials and so on. In the context of what I experienced here last term, the central building office, which would benefit from the entire recodification of construction law around 7 billion a year, was a huge problem, and the creation of a new agency for digitization with at least 350 officials is O.K. So all of a sudden it's okay that we already have state organizations that handle this, some under the Ministry of the Interior, some under the Ministry of Finance? And I am not really sure if the Minister is aware that the Agency will have the same problems as the State Treasury of the Shared Services Centre or the National Agency for Communication and Information Technologies, so-called NAKIT, in the field of procurement. The Agency will not be able to operate under the exemption from the Public Procurement Act in the so-called in-house, which means direct award. [[18.10 hours]] In my line of work, because we were dealing with it, digitalization was a huge topic for us, and we also wanted NAKIT or just some State Treasury to be the central coordinator, so the Ministry had an analysis of the implementation of the article. 12 The Public Procurement Directive, a simple so-called in-house relationship, namely cooperation at vertical and horizontal levels, which shows that all the surrounding states have this in their national regulation in accordance with the directive, as the Czech Republic has also transposed it. The Ministry has requested an opinion from the European Commission on the application of Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 12 of the Directive, i.e. the interpretation of the definition of the contracting authority in the case of the State and its organisational components in relation to the exemption in-house. The problem of vertical and horizontal cooperation is interpreted by other departments that the Czech Republic is allegedly one contracting authority and its organisational components can apply to each other the use of horizontal and vertical cooperation, i.e. to each other without procurement procedures. The European Commission does not agree with this interpretation. As an example, when the Ministry controls its subordinate person, namely the data centre that provides ICT services to the Ministry, then the conditions for application of Art. 12 Directive and provisions of Section 11 of the Public Procurement Act. From the point of view of misinterpretation of other departments, there is an opinion that since we are all, the Czech Republic, one contracting authority, these conditions are also met against other organisational components of the state. The specific question to the European Commission was therefore given in the following wording: Can the concept of a contracting authority of the State in a functional sense be understood that, by example, within the various organisational components of the State which are functionally separated from the State and manage its own budget, each organisational component of the State is considered to be a separate contracting entity? In addition, whether or not in the case of the application of Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the competent authorities of the Member State concerned shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member State concerned have access to the information referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and that the competent authorities of the Member State concerned have access to the information referred to in Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The 12 directives must be based on the concept of the State as a single contracting authority and therefore this exemption can also be applied to other bodies, organisational bodies of the State which conclude contracts for public contracts on behalf of the State, or whether, in the sense of a functional concept within the framework of a Euro-comfort interpretation, individual components, organisational components of the State must be regarded as separate contracting entities and cannot be applied to them under Article 12 (1) of the Directive. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The opinion of the European Commission DG GROW has been delivered. In particular, the European Commission stated: "We confirm that even if the State forms part of the definition of contracting authority, it is in practice acting through its organisational components, which act as separate contracting entities for the purposes of public procurement. In the context of the Czech Republic, it would therefore be difficult to accept that, for example, if one ministry has an internal data centre, this centre can automatically be shared with other ministries because all ministries are internal legal entities controlled by the State of the Czech Republic as the sole contracting authority within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of the Act. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Although sharing one data centre by all central government bodies seems a sensible and practical solution, we recommend that the Member State, the Czech Republic, find another legal arrangement for its organization." In conclusion, both legislation and long-term interpretation on this issue is quite correct, and therefore opposite views in the sense that when all the organizational components are one Czech Republic, and thus one contracting entity, and these organizational components can apply which do not need to apply the rules for vertical in-house or horizontal cooperation, it can undoubtedly be refuted by reference to the interpretation of the European Commission. From a practical point of view, this means that individual resorts cannot, on the exception of in-house, enter subsidiaries of other resorts, for example - now I will take the Ministry of Regional Development into my mouth - can not enter the exception of the State Printer of Pricing, which belongs to the Ministry of Finance or NAKIT, which belongs to the Ministry of the Interior and therefore no new agency. And if it's about consulting some assignment in the digitization of state and public administration, then the consultation is already being done by the main architect at the Ministry of the Interior. I would just like to say here that this is a very complex issue, because if, of course, the resorts are most facing how to award a contract, how to avoid the vendor lock-in that the minister was talking about, but we all need to realise that the only statutory representative at the resort is the minister. The Minister is responsible for everything that is going on in this particular department, and can be advised by any agency to do so, but the Agency has no responsibility, the Minister and the official responsible for the assignment will be responsible, who will sign it in the so-called reporter. And I'm asking, what are we doing here? Why does a new agency even come into existence if it has no responsibility to other sources? And if we wanted to avoid in-house entry, it would be about giving up all the departments' digitalisation activities, Minister Stanjura will hand over all the money to the new agency, and she will do digitalization for everyone, but also with all the responsibility, with all the signing and so on. And I can't imagine we should be talking here about the bill, since we don't have a draft amendment to the law of jurisdiction, we don't have a proposal to amend the law on public procurement. There are more problems, so let me propose that this bill be returned to the petitioner for revision. If, of course, the coalition overrules this - but I would really be surprised if the ministers did not want to renegotiate this within the framework of the government among themselves - I propose extending the deadline to 60 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u17	Thank you. I'm writing here - a motion for a re-evaluation. If not, increase or extend the deadline and it was 60... [[Member Dostálová from the bench: 60.]] For 60 days. Thank you. Before I invite Mr Marek Novák to the debate, I will read the apologies, namely, to President Pekarová Adamová from 18 to midnight for work reasons, and to Mr Roman Bělor from 18.15 to three quarters to twelve for work reasons, and then to Mr Michal Šalomoun from 18.30 also from midnight. And at this point, another... [[Minister Bartoš gestures.]] Excuse me, Mr. Secretary reporting with priority. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u18	I would only like to respond to a few of the things that have been said by Mrs Dostálová. Like they say about the... Give a man a fish, feed him for one day, teach him how to fish, and he'll catch the fish himself. I am therefore convinced that precisely because we are in crisis and we are constantly dealing with non-standard things that require high coordination, the acceleration of the process automation is absolutely essential. And when the JENDA system went off, if there wasn't an automatic calculation, then a hundred people manage it, that's not how nobody managed it. So the things we're going to deal with in the future, if they're digitally automated and it's going to be to coordinate the resort, because you need data from the Treasury, you need other data provided by another office within the right to information and sharing, so I think that this agency is the answer to interresor coordination and to accelerate automation. Otherwise, the parallel with the Supreme Building Authority doesn't really add up to me, the office was supposed to be focused out on an agenda in one area, pulling people together, whereas the agency - and then I get to the name, because I think there might have been some kind of misunderstanding - so the office was focused out for the citizens and brought together those agendas. This is an institution, so I'll tell DIA, an agency that is targeted as a service to others, so it works within eGovernment out on those bodies that are, at the Ministry, or at other entities. We had a bit of a dispute about the name, these agencies abroad, or these authorities are called agencies, but we don't have a de facto agency, only that's in the title - there was a dispute on the Government's Legislative Council - but the DIA is the U.S.U., that's the office, okay? [[18.20 hours]] So he doesn't actually do the shop that makes NAKIT that provides those... So, actually, there's this, like, reservation to the agency itself, and that law doesn't solve other businesses at this point. They are dealing with the creation of the agency, so if we were talking about the horizontal, we would have to talk about those already at the moment, whether NAKIT is providing something on the basis of the exception, or whether it can fit into 20 percent of the supply to someone other than the Ministry of the Interior, under which it is suspended at the moment. You may have quoted Mr. Fiedler from the Ministry of Regional Development on this matter. According to our legal analyses, of course, the horizontal cooperation is possible, as expressed on DG GROW's question, so she solved one particular case. It's just, the way we worked together or pissed off when I was chairman of the Public Administration Committee, I guess if I didn't - it's not, and we didn't ask, and we sucked the horizontal out of our finger that it's possible. Of course, it is precisely the solution to horizontal award in the future that we have examined both from the perspective of how it is implemented in other countries, how the Commission was asked, what the replies of this Regio were, so the aspects that you mentioned here, especially in this, are, of course, analysed. I'd like to set a simple example. We're dealing with another press now. I am glad that we discussed it on the Public Administration Committee that you are chairing, and it turns out that the Commission's recommendations in the implementation did not stand up to the test. We found out how similar legislation is implemented in other countries, and it turned out that the controversial paragraph of some kind of active information about a citizen finding information somewhere, perhaps in the 14 countries tested, was in two. So, of course, the question... I have it written here, but I don't want to get bored here, as was the question of the horizontal possibility of entering, so we have been treated here and we have an opinion that this is possible, but it does not concern the DIA agency itself, i.e. the Authority. This is generally related to the horizontal operation of services across the state administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u19	Thank you. Mrs Dostálová signed up with the facts. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u20	Thank you for the floor. I, of course, know, Minister, that this is a central government body. That's why I brought it up on purpose - just as you mentioned poor Mr. Fiedler here, sending me some information. This is a report from 2018, when I, of course, looked into all my materials, how it was actually communicated at the time, because for precisely these reasons we wanted to involve the Treasury. And we just came across this problem, which any other central authority, whatever their name is DIA, BIA, MIA, doesn't matter, will have the same problems under the Public Procurement Act. And again, no one's gonna take responsibility. The minister can take some advice, but he's still gonna have his teams at the resorts that are gonna sanctify him, the meeting, because the people in the agency or the central body, no matter how we get in the way, they're not gonna have a responsibility to the minister. He's the one signing it, and he's gonna want to get his lawyers screwed up at the resort and so on. This is just never gonna work out with any agency or central authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u21	Thank you. With de facto or priority, Mr... With priority?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u22	I'll react quickly. Of course, Mr. Fiedler is an employee of the Ministry of Regional Development. I merely mentioned him to report that I know the answer to the same material or the position that concerned the specific question, as I said. And otherwise, according to the existence of the Public Administration Information Systems Act, under this Act, newly launched information systems have to be approved by OHA for 13 years, and if they are not approved, they must not be paid, otherwise it is a breach of budgetary discipline, so the financial responsibility is exactly the same as the Ministry. And that the DIA will have a budget chapter, so the same rules also apply to it, and all expenditures, investments must be justified and justified. And it really isn't that they collect all the IT costs in the state administration - which was said here in some hint, which, as I said, is about 17 billion, or somebody says it's 15 billion - and they're going to move under an agency that distributes them. Of course, the IT review agenda and the agenda information systems are managed by individual ministries, their IT departments, they have their items both in terms of development, and they have their items in terms of licensing policy and support, which is led to them, and development. Just like that for a little while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u23	Thank you. She wants to respond with Mrs Dostálová, in fact. Before he comes to the counter, I just apologize to Mr. Jan Lipavský from 18.15 to midnight for no reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u24	It's really just two sentences left. We don't understand each other, Minister. What the agency or central authority will be entrusted to wine is responsible for that. I'm just saying that OHA approved the intentions, but the actual performance of the contract is always responsible for that by the minister and, of course, with his team. And only if it stays the way it is, and there's no exception to the in-house directive, so you're just going to expose the departments to having to compete - to compete with the agency, and I think that's really out of line. Why don't you just reconstruct NAKIT? Why do we have to have a new agency? It doesn't make any sense! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u25	Thank you. In fact, no one else is reporting, so we can move on to the next one entered into the general debate, and this is Mr Marek Novák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I can already see that I'm not going to be able to make everything I've prepared, but if I don't make it, I'm going to introduce you to the next hearing when it goes on. I completely agree with the view that it is necessary to make the IT structure more effective, and I might even be convinced that the establishment of a new DIA agency is necessary, however, the proposal as it was put forward, as it was discussed, given the speed of discussion in the commentary procedure, I find it very paradoxical that, in fact, there was the courage to come up with a proposal for discussion at first reading, and it is really good that we vetoed this proposal. For me, the current state of the novel is, for example - I could like it: I'm not happy with the cleaning lady's work and instead of explaining that I don't, I'm going to let her be, I'm going to create a new place called a cosmetics store, I'm going to hire a new employee to do it, and I'm going to hope it works. In a few notes, I'll explain why. The draft law was discussed in a short notice procedure and was submitted to the government with six contradictions. The Head of the Office of the Government has already argued that the bill should have been sent to an unrestrained, unabbreviated commentary procedure and should not have been submitted to the government until the agreement was at project level. Such a significant transformation requires that the process be actually set up in such a way that the state will ensure the continuous provision of services to citizens so that the public is not affected by the intended transfer of agendas, and the process is indeed not simple. The whole process should be staged and we do not know the individual stages at present. This would provide sufficient time for a consistent analysis of resource security, but also a proper legislative process. This would also ensure smooth digitalisation at the turn of the year, when there should also be a massive extension of data boxes, as all business entities will be obliged to have a data box from the new year onwards. As far as businessmen are concerned, they're already storming our dates. They address us: Put the efficiency down, it's not good, we're not ready for it, but that, of course, is the result of the law on digital services that we discussed here in the last parliamentary term. [[18.30 hours]] As regards further contradictions, the Ministry of Finance does not agree with additional requirements for the state budget. Well, not - at least so, because the citizens are actually dealing with problems other than spending money on these experiments. The Ministry of the Interior also disagrees with the transfer of the technical management of the Population Register to the Digital and Information Agency. especially because maintaining technical governance at the Ministry of the Interior will facilitate certain processes...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-003-033.u27	Ambassador, I must interrupt you. It is 6:30 p.m. and we should focus on the fixed points, namely the point
