ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /house print 166/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Tom Philipp, take the position of the rapporteur for the plaintiff. The amendments are set out in the Parliaments of the Press 166/3, which was delivered on 23 June 2022, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House of the Press 166/4. The Minister is about to speak before the debate is opened. Please, Minister, you have the floor. And I will ask you, colleagues, if you have anything important to deal with, to go to the lobby and to understand what the Minister is saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, we discussed the law very closely at first and second reading, as well as at the Committee on Health. Then I won't repeat the arguments. A total of three amendments were tabled, an opinion...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u3	I apologize, Minister, but especially in the left room, I will ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep the discussion down, or to move it into the lobby! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u4	Three amendments have been tabled during the second reading, and I advise everyone that when you ask me for an opinion, I will say yes to everyone. This means that I will support all the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u5	Thank you, too. For the sake of order, I will once again say that the resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered as Parliamentary press 166/4 and the amendments are set out in the Parliamentary Press 166/3, which was delivered on 23 June 2022. I am opening the debate and registering several priority rights in it. Mr Tomio Okamura and President Okamura will be the first to speak and Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared. President Radim Fiala withdraws his application with priority rights. Mr Tomio Okamura, duly registered with the priority right, will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Petr Fiala's government, that is to say, five ODS, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, has been presenting here for several months and has pushed through the deterioration of the availability of health care for Czech citizens and the deterioration of health care conditions. So at this very moment, this government is definitely trying to push it through. You are trying to push through the reduction in health care expenditure for this year by CZK 14 billion in the situation of long-term delayed health performance, difficult to obtain dental care, rising inflation, energy prices and other expenditures. In this resort, of course, it is a nonsystemic, harmful and senseless proposal that can affect patients, health professionals and will help no one at all. It is a direct attack on the public interest by the government of Petr Fiala, while the government also spends huge sums on expenses that are not of any use to Czech citizens. Members of the SPD have been trying to prevent this proposal from being approved in the House for several months, and we will continue our efforts, of course, to prevent this proposal from going away, because the SPD is against the deterioration of the availability of health care for our citizens, but Petr Fiala's government wants to promote a deterioration in the availability of health care for our citizens and health care conditions. So the SPD is always on the side of citizens and their legitimate interests. On the contrary, Petr Fiala's government is taking money from our decent citizens. So that's the basic difference between the SPD movement and what the Petr Fiala government is doing. And I think all the citizens on their wallets are already feeling what Petr Fiala's government is doing. So why am I saying it so clearly here at the outset, so that it is clear that Petr Fiala's government, on the one hand, is pushing Petr Fiala's government to take CZK 14 billion to health insurance companies, thus reducing the money for health care of Czech citizens, and, on the other hand, Petr Fiala's government is not dealing with draconian expensiveness in the Czech Republic? Here you can see exactly how the government is progressing. According to current data of the Czech Statistical Office, annual inflation growth in the Czech Republic is a record of 17.2 percent. And Petr Fiala's government literally does nothing against inflation. When I called on Prime Minister Petr Fiala here a few minutes ago - who was sitting here behind me, he had already left because he obviously doesn't care about the issue of expensive, or he has nothing to say about it anyway, it's a problem for the citizens - so I asked him here to - I suggested a point here a moment ago to discuss government proposals, i.e. when they're finally going to start dealing with it, the expensive one. Prime Minister Fiala's answer was that he left the O.R. This is the one the Czech Republic has a premiere. He has nothing to say. He's got nothing to say. What would he say if he didn't have any suggestions? We in the SPD introduced a specific plan. VAT on food and energy must be reduced immediately, up to a zero rate. The same applies to VAT and excise duty on fuel. Prices of basic food, energy and fuel, as well as interest on mortgage loans, must be ceilinged. At the same time, we need to leave more money in our pockets to keep the quality of their lives from being reduced. This will ensure that SPD proposals have already been made to increase tax discounts for all working natural persons as well as to increase tax advantages on careless children for their working parents. But, of course, these proposals are blocked by the government coalition. Instead, it takes 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies so that they don't have money so that they can't improve their care for our citizens. So the SPD is basically the only political movement that thinks of our people, not foreign states and Brussels papalas. And even experts confirm that Petr Fiala's government is artificially causing overpriced electricity. The electricity could be cheap. Not only known energy experts such as Ivan Noveský, Vladimír Štěpán or Pavel Janeček, but now also former head of state-controlled ČEZ and until last year's government agent for nuclear energy Jaroslav Míl says that the Purple Government could provide cheap electricity for our citizens and companies, but it is subject to lobbyist pressures and therefore will not provide cheap electricity for people. Mile correctly says that the government could agree on lower energy prices with ČEZ for Czech businesses and citizens, as the Slovak Government agreed. And Míl, Jaroslav Míl, also criticizes the fact that the Fialův Government is giving ČEZ an advantageous loan of 74 billion to export electricity to the EU stock exchange in Leipzig, Germany, while electricity could be supplied cheaply from ČEZ directly to Czech companies and citizens. Jaroslav Míl also rightly says - and I stress again, he is the former head of state controlled CEZ, so of course he is an expert - so he says that one of several reasons is also EU emission allowances, which have become the subject of speculation. This is fully confirmed by the words of the SPD. As I say, unlike incompetent and, in my opinion, the treasonous Fialův government, the SPD has a comprehensive plan for a systemic energy solution. Why do I think the Fialův government is treasonous? Because you are going to Brussels, you are going to Germany instead of defending the interests of Czech citizens so that Czech citizens have cheap energy. You don't care. You defend the interests of the European Union, the states of the European Union, Germany, Brussels, the European Commission, no, you do not defend the interests of the wallets of Czech citizens. The SPD suggests, and we've been saying this for a long time, months, maybe years, and it's come to our attention, the SPD is proposing a withdrawal from the disastrous Green Agreement of the EU, the so-called Green Deal. The Czech Republic's withdrawal from the speculative system of trading in emission allowances of the European Union. And also, that Czech producers first sell cheaply produced electricity to Czech consumers at affordable prices and at the commodity exchange in Leipzig, Germany, let only its surpluses be supplied. We want the Czech Republic to buy natural gas directly from producers, not from foreign traffickers. The SPD says to restore the national gas importer and the national oil processor. It was your previous governments who sold it. The gas was sold for past governments, it was privatized, and by agreement between ČSSD and ODS it was privatized by Transgas. And Unipetrol, the national oil processor, was sold to the Polák. Let us cancel the social tax - sorry, cancel the solar tax and any subsidies that make electricity more expensive for consumers, and reduce VAT on energy in the form of other states. So the SPD has a clear, concrete solution. The government of Petr Fiala does not present a solution. So here's the point, the fact that you want to take the 14 billion health insurance companies and make access to health care worse for our citizens. In this speech, I would like to propose that we return this proposal to repeat the second reading, which is why I am also justifying the reasons here. I'd also like to say what you're dealing with here. What are you guys really doing here and not doing, and why do I have to get off here in this way? Let's take a look at the housing problem. So you're proposing to make health care worse, and what it takes to have an energy situation, I just said what you've done with your inactivity and incompetence. But let's take a look at our own place. Because own housing for millions of honest-working citizens is becoming an impossible dream for your government. There is a risk that many people will fall into debt traps due to their inability to pay their mortgages. Your government doesn't care. It doesn't matter. In the first quarter of this year, housing prices in the Czech Republic increased by a quarter year-on-year, which is the most of all Member States in the European Union. Most of all countries in the European Union. You're the worst. You are the government, your government has put Petr Fiala in the worst situation in the Czech Republic. You stopped the building bill here, which could speed up the construction process, could speed up the construction. You guys stopped the whole thing pretty much here, you did it - so basically you made the situation worse. And you didn't design anything proper yourself. [[9.40 hours]] Furthermore, of course, interest rates on mortgage loans are rising rapidly, and the conditions for providing them have been significantly tightened in spring. Due to high interest rates, for example, mortgage applicants in the amount of CZK 4 million need a minimum net income of CZK 80,000 per month. Thus, at least 12 percent of their payers will be in great difficulty in paying their mortgages. This results from the current data of the financial portal, which also has the certification of the Czech National Bank. [[unintelligible]] As well as data on the fact that demand for mortgage loans fell by 55 percent year on year in the Czech Republic. It is a sad fact that our own housing is becoming an entirely impossible dream for millions of our honest-working citizens. The inability of a part of our citizens to repay mortgage loans is an alarming signal threatening the fall of a large number of citizens into other rainbow traps and executions. The government of Petr Fiala from ODS and the ODS coalition, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 clearly bears responsibility for this situation. Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš and Chairman of the Pirates did nothing. You've already had a majority in the Chamber of Deputies for three quarters of a year, and you're not actually proposing any laws here in these respects. Yes, you are proposing some laws here, such as the pandemic law, which allows you to restrict the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Then you're proposing a correspondence option here, and luckily, we've temporarily prevented that from happening. That is, because your citizens' confidence is falling sharply, so of course you want to change the electoral law to keep to the best of the corsets. You want it to make it possible to manipulate and cheat -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u7	Mr President, I am leading you to discipline to stick to this point, and that is the insurance policy for public health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u8	I was expecting you to jump in on me because you're nervous as a representative of the government coalition -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u9	I've left you from the beginning of the speech - [[Mr Okamura: But I would like to justify...]] I'm in charge of this meeting, I'd like to ask you to speak to the point we're discussing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u10	Yeah, but I'm explaining why we want to return this proposal to second reading, this doesn't just apply to this law as health care, 14 billion. After all, the 14 billion is such a huge amount in the budget that I have to put it in a broader context. Or are you trying to tell me that you guys are sucking your... I know he might-- he's gonna slap a billion, he's gonna slap it, but the budget is one and it's not inflatable. Well, maybe I can put it in context. I want to say, so that it is very clear to you that we, as the SPD, would rather invest the 14 billion elsewhere, and that is a legitimate reason why I want it to come back - the third reading allows me, in terms of the Rules of Procedure, the only way to prevent you from doing so here, to enforce the harmful proposal, and that is to return it to the second reading. And there must be clear reasons for that. Not like your government says you're always smacking something from the side, and then there's still no deed and no action. We're not populists, we've got exactly what it takes. If I were a populist, I'd just say something here, it won't be justified, and I'll end it. But that's just not how it is in our case. So I would like to say that you, Petr Fiala's government, are clearly responsible for this situation, well, I'm going to put it a little bit more specifically in the context, because instead of helping people, for example, with expensive housing or housing, you're taking 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies, which is just wrong. And we want this not to be voted on as far as possible today, because we simply do not agree with the proposal, with such a harmful proposal for citizens. And as I was saying, you're here to devote a month of energy to getting people's health care worse, and, on the other hand, you're going to postpone the amendment to the construction law that would speed up the construction process and expand the offer of new flats, and you've even stopped the housing loan program for young families. You didn't even put down mortgage interest. On the contrary, the SPD movement says - let's leave the money, the 14 billion, in public health insurance, so that the citizens don't get worse. As far as housing is concerned, we say - the SPD proposes the introduction of favourable loans for working parents, as well as through massive state and legislative support for the construction of available cooperative, urban and municipal apartments. You know, it's weird with your loan to the CEZ. This means that you take 14 billion health insurance companies to make access to health care worse for citizens - I would like to repeat this sentence many more times at your call, so that it doesn't really fit, so that it doesn't fit in front of the citizens who will watch it afterwards, so I thank you that I can stress it repeatedly, so that as many people as possible remember it - and on the other hand, you have approved CEZ's loan of CZK 74 billion to continue selling overpriced electricity to citizens, whose end price is already almost 400,000 percent of the production price, as experts say, that they are making it more expensive for us at the EU exchange in Leipzig. So these are just really things that we certainly can't agree with in this budget, the way you do. So that's why we need to put it in a broader context. You guys would like me to just talk here about you making health care worse for the citizens, but it needs to be put into the broader context of everything you're doing. Of course, I would also like to mention briefly about this - so you, on the one hand, as I said, want to make the availability of healthcare worse. As I was saying, for example, dental care is hardly available today. I was running for the Moravian-Silesian Region, and in our region in those border regions, the availability of dental care is a really big problem. Inaccessibility of dental care. And it's also elsewhere, it's also in small towns and so on. So I know why I am here, Mr Vice-President, why I am fighting for these citizens because it concerns our voters directly, and it concerns the citizens of the Czech Republic, and it needs to be said what your priorities are instead of providing health care. Well, now we've learned that the next priority of the government, instead of improving health care - on the contrary, you want to make it worse - is that the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan here is setting up a political police force to prosecute citizens for their opinions, and at the same time it can also cause the STAN criminal investigation to stop or slow down. So really, how - instead of giving all the energy to solve the price increase, which you're not doing, to improve health care, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan for STAN has decided to divide the National Headquarters against organised crime into two parts. That means it can cause a halt or slow down investigation into many serious criminal cases. We also do not like this, especially when former Minister of Culture for the STAN movement Jiří Besser for the List said that the head of the criminal group Michal Redl has been running the STAN and STAN since 2009. So that's just wrong. So, briefly and briefly - by the way, what you should also be dealing with instead of spending time here by wanting to make health care worse for our citizens - I do not know if you have any idea whether the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan knows that there is a huge increase in illegal migration to the Czech Republic, to the European Union, and in this the Ukrajinec are not included, I stress, these are Frontex numbers, official figures, official bodies of the European Union. It is the European Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex, an annual increase of 82 percent of illegal migration. And again, in these figures, Ukrajinec are not counted, namely 86 000 people to the European Union, and our police officers are holding illegal migrants here every week, last week 150 illegal migrants from Islamic countries. Like here. Syřan, Turek, just the border like a colander, and you're wasting your time by it - it's just total incompetence, I haven't seen it yet, you've been wasting your time here for almost six months trying to push through the deterioration of availability, the possibility of worsening the risk of worsening the availability of health care for our citizens. So it really isn't. I understand that the government coalition is nervous when I talk about this because, of course, I think that you are already complaining about the citizens of the Czech Republic and writing to you what you are doing here, or not showing it all, and when you are showing it, it is always harmful for the Czech Republic. And let me at least say one more priority in a few sentences that you're pushing here instead of dealing with the price increase. You still want to - you have now passed the law here, Minister Baxa, Minister of Culture of the ODS, and it has passed through your government that you still want to politically influence Czech television, to dominate politically Czech television and Czech radio. So if I recapitulate: you're here taking 14 billion insurance companies, and I'm not even talking about the fact that you proposed it at the moment, in February, that's evidence of your government's asociality, you proposed it in February before the migration wave from Ukraine. That means you wanted to make the availability of health care worse for our citizens back then. And in the meantime, the Ukrainian migrants came here, but now I want to talk about the fact that we have a six-digit increase in the number of state insured persons in our system. So, on the contrary, the money should be added to improve health care at least a little bit or in some way make it to the satisfaction of the citizens. But you still insist on defending it. It's just completely unbelievable. [[9.50 hours]] So, from my point of view, I'm going to repeat my proposal that the SPD is proposing that this proposal be returned to repeat the second reading. I would really hate for any President to violently interrupt our Members from among doctors and nurses, because I suspect that the SPD MP has the greatest proportion of doctors and health professionals to the number of Members here in the Chamber of Deputies. So, of course, our doctors and nurses will comment on this, and they will also propose to repeat and return it to second reading. I think that really the 14 billion is such a high amount, and I would strongly ask you not to interrupt our performances, because we would really, really hate that. 'Cause that's what the raid would have done. We need to justify this, so we asked the doctors we have in the MP to comment on this so that the public would have a professional perspective on the matter. We have also asked the Vice-President of the Health Committee, who is a nurse, to make this clear to the citizens why your proposal is harmful. I think that's basically understood by every citizen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u11	Just for the record, Mr President, anyone who does not speak on the agenda and on the subject will be admonished by the management meeting regardless of who is in charge of the meeting. Our role is for the Rules of Procedure to be respected, and we are here as a management meeting to lead to the order of individual Members. Next, she will speak with priority rights, respectively with the club's position, Mrs Karla Maříková. I have authorization here. I ask the lady of the house to present her opinion to the club. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Don't yell at me if you want to discuss it, please sign up properly for the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear government, we are in the third reading of this law, and I will also propose that he return to second reading. And I'll tell you the reasons right now. This amendment reduces payments for state insured persons from CZK 1 967 to CZK 1,567, i.e. by CZK 400. By reducing payments for state insured people will go to health care this year, as has been said by CZK 14 billion less and thus the quality of health care is fundamentally threatened and risks its reduction, of course. The government, by means of an amendment read by Tom Philipp, proposes the automatic valorisation of payments for state insured persons based on inflation. I agree with automatic valuation as such, but the government comes up with this after reducing the payments for state insured persons. And if, according to the forecast, the next year's payment for a state insured person goes up, it will still be less than the original amount before the reduction. The government comes up with this at a time when the number of state insured people is actually increasing, as there are also refugees from Ukraine, whose number the government has absolutely no overview of. We are at a time when our health care is facing a greater burden, as the number of state insured people is increasing with refugees from Ukraine. This step by the government is therefore a significant threat to the quality and availability of health care, and it cannot be agreed with at all. Whoever pays for this will only be citizens of the Czech Republic. Reductions in payments for state insured persons at a time when insurance companies will pay for last year's care will lead to a decrease in health insurance accounts after years. For small insurance companies, this may also mean that, at the end of the year, they will be forced to start delaying payments to providers by a few days. Some smaller insurance companies have even announced it. The new automatic payment mechanism for state insured people will certainly help insurance companies and health professionals plan better care, as they will know how much they can work with. But after the payments for state insured people have been reduced, it is a clear alibi of the government that it is doing something. In 2021, health insurance companies were in deficit of almost CZK 15 billion. There was covid, but now we have refugees from Ukraine again. It surprises me at all that the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, as a doctor at all, has agreed to travel less money to health care because he is one of the paramedics. It's a kind of betrayal against doctors, nurses, and other medical professionals. First, the government will collect 14 billion to travel to health insurance companies, and now we learn from the ODS' economic expert that it would even be considered to involve a doctor. The Minister of Health denies this, but Jan Skopeček has made such a public statement. First, the government takes money from health insurance companies, and then they want to suck it out of the citizens. From the citizens who now have to face enormous upheaval. On the one hand, the government is sending money to Ukraine, and on the other hand, it is cutting them off in the health sector. And our citizens will pay for it. This government does not defend the interests of citizens of the Czech Republic. Money is for Ukraine, but not for our health services. We must realise that it is the money of Czech citizens, not Ukraine or Ukrajinec. Whose interests, then, should we ask, is this government actually defending? Is it closer to Ukraine or the health of citizens of the Czech Republic? We will not support this law, and as I have already said, I also propose a return to second reading, because it cannot be agreed that less money will go into health care at the expense of the quality and availability of health care for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u13	I also thank you for presenting the club's position. We will now proceed to the duly signed up for the debate. Next up, you're the one who signed up again, Madame. [[He's downloading his application.]] You're downloading your application, thank you. Mrs Věra Adámková is next registered, Mr Miloslav Janulík will be prepared. I wonder if Mrs Věra Adámková is here? It's not. Ambassador Miloslav Janulík, then? Mr Janulík is not, either. Now, then, Mr Síla and Mr Julius Špičák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address this law and, above all, to withdraw 14 billion from the health care system for state insured persons. It's not just the 14 billion from the health care, it's another 5,8 billion that were taken out of the Ministry of Health's budget in the state budget. And when we realize that virtually faculty hospitals and different institutions are directly controlled by the Ministry of Health, it means that funds are being cut from the whole system. I propose that this amendment be returned to second reading, thereby giving the opportunity to make major amendments, possibly to withdraw this unfortunate amendment from the hearing. I would like to justify this proposal by introducing several major conventions on the current unplanned increase in the number of state insured persons within Ukrainian refugees. One of Babiš's main five-calice electoral campaigns was a proponent reduction in the state budget deficit, to which she wanted to point her finger at the mismanagement of Babišův's previous government. That's understandable. What is harder to understand is the fact that the Minister of Finance, with this amendment, seeks to remove the health care of almost 20 billion crowns, which has been heavily marked by the covideo pandemic, the lack of medical personnel, and now an important increase in the number of state insured persons. Despite the government's declaration, the result will be further deterioration of quality and, above all, territorial availability of health care mainly for people who have deep pockets. In the context of the current cost, the effects on these people will be even worse. [[10.00 hours]] Health funding has been maintained by all governments since the 1990s by around 7 percent of GDP, with the European Union average of around 9-9.2%. Only last year's government, Mr Babiš, was the first to push the cod pandemic to increase payments for state policy holders, so that the current share of GDP is 8,8%, almost 9 percent, and thus we started to approach the average of the European Union, of course, at significantly lower GDP in our country compared to GDP in the countries west of our border, but at comparable quality, paying the same prices for health inputs. For example, as a specific example, I can mention from my field that the price for microsurgical surgery of the cut-off of the intervertebral disc is around CZK 4,000 and in Germany it is CZK 3,800. It can be said that the quality of our health care is bought out by the low wages of health professionals in a significantly higher workload compared to Western foreign countries. The main reason for this insensitive reduction in payments for state insured persons -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u15	Yes, I'm registering a reminder that ministers are not present, it's a correct reminder. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt the meeting for three minutes and ask the club presidents to secure the presence of... [[From the dime note that Minister Kupka is coming to the hall.]] And I'm sorry, the Minister is here. In that case, I don't see a contradiction, we can proceed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u16	The main reason for this insensitive reduction of state insurance payments is the pursuit of commercialisation of health care, as all right-wing governments, especially ODS, have been trying to do since the 1990s. This is the last time specifically mentioned in the Government's programming statement that it will seek greater competition between health insurance companies. However, this can only be achieved if the number of services paid by health insurance companies is reduced, i.e. there will have to be a greater involvement of patients. This is actually happening today. I think a lot of people don't even know that there have been changes since 1 January of this year regarding the payment of public health insurance services, but that is for a different debate, another debate, but these changes are practically affecting pensioners and people over 50 years of age. This is, for example, a deterioration or reduction in dental prosthesis payments, there are a lot of other things that nobody talks about, the public or the media don't really know what's going on. That's what patients learn when they get to the dentist, the dentist, and he tells them - unfortunately, you were entitled to a total prosthetic once every five years, and now, according to the new one, it's three years from now, which means you're gonna pay for it yourself. And those prices are in tens of thousands of crowns. Amendment to Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance, deals with the reduction of income into the system, but legal removal of funds from the system does not solve. That's a major problem that I might be bothered by. Since the Public Health Insurance Act has historically been based on the fact that remuneration should not be paid to the contracting provider because of the health insurance undertaking or the free agreement of the contracting parties, but based on legislation, this is from documents such as a list of performances with point values and payment orders for that year. However, she worked for Topolánkův's government in the privatisation lobby, followed by: As of 1 January 2008 she was Amendment No. 261/207 Coll. made an inconspicuous but absolutely fundamental change. In the present section, paragraph 17 is replaced by the following: 5 the supplement has been implanted and the following sentence and this text is now read: "The decree referred to in the fourth and fifth sentences shall apply if the provider and the health insurance undertaking, subject to compliance with the health insurance plan of the health insurance undertaking, do not agree on the method of payment, the amount of remuneration, the amount of advance payments to cover services and regulatory restrictions" - and now pay attention! - "otherwise." That's actually how you tunnel into a new way. No one will even notice, and everything is legal. This sentence is set out in Section 17 (2) of the EEA Agreement. 5 enabled health insurance companies and selected providers to detach themselves from the decree regulation by simple mutual agreement. Health insurance companies remained fully dependent on the public funds required by the insured, the ergo law was fulfilled in the letter. At the same time, health insurance companies gained contractual freedom in their exercise as if they were private undertakings. For private health service providers, there was a kind of paradise on earth. The existing legal situation directly encourages health insurance companies to selectively favour the public money of selected health entrepreneurs, as a general rule, with ties to the decisive functionaries of insurance companies or the ruling political guarantee, which ultimately means the multi-billion-dollar loss of the system in favour of the pockets of healthcare entrepreneurs, and thus the deterioration of the availability and quality of health services. If only 50 percent of these funds could be brought back into the system, we would not be fighting against the withdrawal of 20 billion from the health care sector to serve an extraordinary reimbursement of the state budget. And not only that, it wouldn't be necessary to collect lids from PET bottles to treat seriously ill children, and we could forgive this discussion that we're having here. This has already been a 14-year-long unsustainable situation that needs to be resolved by a fundamental change in the law. Clear anti-corruption mechanisms must be introduced into the rules of the contractual policy. And that is why I propose that this amendment be returned to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u17	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Julius Špičák will now speak, but before him with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have a request. There is a very important law - an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. We're at the third reading. This law takes 14 billion to public health insurance and doesn't sit with a representative of the petitioner, the finance minister doesn't sit here. I would still understand if the Minister of Health was sitting here, because I always had a little doubt that the Minister of Finance was presenting it, but let him. But there's neither one nor the other. Thank you for having the Minister of Transport, but I don't think he's gonna respond to this. So, Vice-President, I'm asking you to call for a short break to get one or the other here. That the government is meeting, I'm sorry, but that's the thing about this government, how you organize your work, you called... [[Minister Stanjura enters the hall.]] So the Minister is here. Thank you. That doesn't mean we need to take a break. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u19	Thank you. The Minister of Finance asked me to leave the hall for a short time. I said I could imagine it wasn't a problem for a few minutes, he came back as agreed. Please, Member, you have the floor and Mrs Iveta Štefanová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a number of speeches. I will try to be very authentic, because unlike my previous esteemed and honored colleagues, I feel like I have a different perspective on these dates, and I'm going to introduce you to facts that have not yet come out. Unfortunately, I will still be bumping into the fundamental framework of the problem of the resort, and that is that its management's activity is inconclusive or misconceptional, and yet, as I will document, I would say, it does not communicate arrogantly. Now to finance. I dare to demonstrate what the total amount is being played for. So we have this payment for state insured people, which is 5,8 million people, and it's essentially 136 billion a year in the current situation, and 30 percent of the revenue that goes to the resort in total. Otherwise, for the sake of interest, in 2020, this figure was 97 billion, in 2021 it was 126 billion, and now, as I say, 136 billion. Overall, 305 billion were flowing to the resort in 2018, last year it was 100 billion more, and this year's plan is 420 billion. Taking into account inflation, however, the resort will need to work with 480 billion, so the planned amount is far from covering the needs of the resort. [[10.10 hours]] Now, of course, the fundamental problem is the management of health facilities, which are, of course, very different, but universally speaking, all kinds of inputs are increasing. For the sake of interest, in IKEM only energy, only electricity - will increase the cost of the year from 33 million to 90 million and other increased costs will require, for example, food. So the reduction in finance that is really threatening is completely unfounded and will have a tragic impact. I must say, therefore, that it is based essentially on a certain mantra - at any cost that budget is pushed towards some equilibrium. And I would like to recall the crucial guru of this mantra from 2008: the result of his proposal for an investigation was that the financial crisis and the economic crisis in the Czech Republic were the longest and the deepest in comparison with all the surrounding countries. And for example, Poland did not intervene at all in this crisis, and Poland, in the years of the decade of the twelve years that we were staggering as a result of the crisis, built an infrastructure and a motorway network that we can only envy. Now, then, to the content of this standard. What concerns me in particular about this proposal is that it is not based on any analysis of our health care. There is simply no analysis of our health care at all. There are data, but there is no analysis. There is no quality analysis, there is no availability analysis, there is no impact analysis of a two-year pandemic. I'm not surprised, because the dedicated covid deputy is a non-professional who, of course, is able to read a lot, but his designs are about as authentic as if I were in charge of the digitization process. He is able to read, he is able to propose measures that have been taken abroad, but he is not able to analyse himself, he is not able to do the task because he completely lacks experienced knowledge, authenticity, ability to analyze scientific data, which is science in itself, and authority that is supported by managerial experience. So now I'm going to do two points. So there's one, and once again, there will be this inconclusiveness, and that is the fulfillment of a government statement. When we look at the government's health statement, a number of points are technical and cannot be disagreed with. But where really, what are the results? So how's the government doing? I can say it just doesn't. Where's quality control? Where's DRG Restart? Where is the reform of teaching? Where's the prevention? The group in charge of prevention, cancer prevention, has practically failed to meet during the functioning of this government. Where's the reduction in bureaucracy? After all, where is the private insurance, which the Minister seems to have attached himself to in order to meet the coalition's expectations, and with which I personally fundamentally disagree? I will now document the way the Ministry of Health operates in the framework of the Presidency of the European Union. So, as part of the Presidency of the European Union, last week's weekend was held in Brno oncological conference - a conference on the topic of... European Congress, or international Congress, oncology. I learned about this conference by writing to me by my friend Professor from Sweden, originally a Němec with whom I have known for 30 years and wrote to me - hello, we will meet in Brno. I wrote him back - I don't know anything about it. So, firstly, the opposition Members were not familiar with this conference, which I therefore consider to be a very declining form of political struggle, secondly, neither with oncologists - nor with top oncologists - has this conference been discussed and to this day its programme is not available. So I can say myself that I may have held the most international conferences of all Czech doctors, or international conferences, including the European Congress, including the World Congress and many others. I've never done this before. And so I can promise that if the cards were reversed and our leadership essentially reached the management of the resort, there would never be a retaliation on my part, and I would always be helpful and teamlike. What is remarkable and what is still testimony to the total lack of professionalism that the Chair of the Oncological Society Committee was invited a week before the conference, namely to the auditorium. I was chairman of a professional company twice, and if someone sent this to me to sit in an auditorium the week before the conference, I'd have thrown it at his head. So this is what our cooperation within the European Community looks like. In this context, I would like to remind myself of the work of MEP Pavel Poc, who took up a very important agenda, in Brussels, oncology and oncological prevention, and whatever political preferences - he was a politician behind the ČSSD - held a number of international conferences and greatly increased the importance of the Czech Republic in the field of prevention. And we were indeed a prime minister at that time, and the negotiations on prevention were on the main agenda of the Brussels Parliament meeting. And I had the honour of giving a lecture there, he chose me as a lecturer, with the difference that if the Prime Minister listened to 25 or how many Members last week, several hundred Members listened to me. Now it is not possible for me not to talk about the covid, because we are dealing with the consequences of the covid, or we are dealing with the process of the covid pandemic, and we are going to deal with the consequences. The negative consequences, including health, which I will document, will essentially affect the health of this population for decades. The ultimate factor in the covid pandemic is its utter unpredictability. Her current summer wave, which is probably the most intense in the whole two-year history of the pandemic - and we don't have real numbers because these tests are so much less, my personal guess is that 20 000 are infected every day - so no one predicted this. On the other hand, fortunately - and the government is extremely lucky and the resort is extremely lucky and we are all lucky - there are very few severe cases and mortality. And we don't have an explanation. But we must perceive the situation abroad. Currently, mortality rates in Brazil and the United States are close to 2,000 per week, and weekly mortality rates in countries such as Spain, Italy, Germany are between 400 and 600. And no one will explain why Switzerland, for example, is completely marginal. And, of course, that doesn't mean that Switzerland has ten times worse health care than in Germany. [[better?]] [[10.20 hours]] So, thank God we're having a rough time here, and mortality is very low. But here, of course, we have to live in this favorable situation, but on the other hand, we have to be prepared for negative numbers to spill over to us. This has always been the case, and it is hard to expect that it would be any different. Indeed, in this context, there is no protection other than vaccination, although this protection is largely problematic and deserves basically an analysis that simply does not take place. And it doesn't happen because the Ministry doesn't know how to run an epidemiology institute, it doesn't know how to do it, so we just don't have the numbers. But for the record, and it's nothing secret, so I have to say it, currently from the deceased here in Bohemia there are 80 percent vaccinated - 80 percent vaccinated, so it is not unvacated - and their average age is 80 years. It is necessary to analyse clearly the extent to which this serious course is essentially taking place from the last dose, since it is necessary to adjust the vaccination in the course of the course. Otherwise, for the sake of interest, in Western European countries, vaccinations of 100,000 people range from 200,000 vaccines above, in our country there are only 165,000, which, as we know, is more anti-vaxerian, so there are some 125,000. So basically, in order to meet the assumption of the effectiveness of vaccination, the pace - first - must be based on real numbers - which we don't have, from a real analysis - that we don't have, and basically must be very intense. Otherwise, the very small number of certified publications on this subject, which is far lower than in all countries to the west of us, is several times lower than in Austria or Israel. So we have the numbers, but we don't have the analysis, and there's no incentive that basically the analysis that could have contributed to that in some way. What did not sound and what would of course be reflected in the costs, that the consequences of not so much covidu - of course the covidu yes, but also the restrictions are fundamentally reflected in the health state of the population. Again, these are absolutely important numbers that we must perceive. In our country, the health of the population deteriorated jumping. We could have these numbers, we've only got them partially, I'm trying to get them, but it's basically not my business, of course. And again, he's supposed to run the State Health Institute, and he's not. So, for the record, myocardial infarction mortality has increased by 5%. 29 million oncological operations have not been performed worldwide in the first wave of pandemics. The number of transplants of 74 world centers decreased by an average of 44 percent. I'm very proud - the director gave us a free hand, me and the chief of surgery, and we stood up to it by transplanting at all costs. And so I am very proud that there has not been a drop at all, on the contrary, last year IKEM showed the most transplants in its history. And I have to say, if we look at other numbers, for example, the number of oncological examinations, the decline in Bohemia is only approximately - only, only - 10 to 15 percent. Not that it is not significant, but it is significantly less than the decline in other countries and it is evidence of great empathy - so I am very positively surprised - about the great empathy of Czech health professionals. And otherwise, I have to say what further affects the health of the population and will affect the health of the population, and so those numbers clearly exist. The number of suicides increases, drug addiction increases, depression, alcoholism, deaths depending on alcoholism, children's mobility, network dependence, self-harm increases, obesity, mobility and eating habits change, eating for a large proportion of the population, quality eating, becomes essentially unavailable, so it will again be related to the deterioration of the population's health. So all of this, so again, unfortunately, I have to say, the health of our population has deteriorated, we've basically moved somewhere to 20 years ago. The numbers are here, I'm just saying, there's no dedicated institution that he can analyze, and all of this will require bailout and will require increased costs. Otherwise, the availability will deteriorate, the quality will deteriorate, the health of the population will deteriorate further. Any unthinkable reduction in this area of costs is totally unacceptable to our club. There's no way we're going to support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u21	And I thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read an apology. Today, due to the visit of the doctor, Mr Milan Feranec apologizes. Next for the debate is Mrs Iveta Štefanová and Mrs Margita Balaštíková will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u22	Thank you for your word. Mr President and honourable colleagues, as a doctor, I certainly cannot agree with the proposal tabled, which makes the biggest cuts in the health sector in the course of the investigation, and therefore I propose a repeat of the second reading. Let me briefly justify this proposal. Yes, we must save, especially on the expense page. However, in no way can the government do so at the expense of the risk of worsening the availability and quality of health care for our citizens, which I fear will lead to a reduction in payments for state insured people. It's a classic investigation in the wrong place. Instead of taking money away from political nonprofits and solar barons, the government has decided to put enough of the health services under trial and instead of the financial security of our health care promised by the government in the programme statement, it is taking steps in exactly the opposite direction. The government wants to use this step for the state budget the reserves of health insurance companies, which it believes are used inefficiently. However, reserves and other items which are necessary to ensure care in the event of sudden circumstances are included in these figures. Taking these funds from insurance companies is a threat to the whole health care system in the Czech Republic in the future. On the basis of pressure and the SPD Members, the Government has tabled an amendment. The proposed amendment introduces automatic valorisation from next year. I was here myself pointing out that the automatic valorisation of state insurance payments is an absolute necessity and should be here a long time ago. Even the mechanism presented can in principle be agreed with, but the government only comes up with a dramatic reduction in this payment. I think it should be done without reducing the original amount. So, even with this amendment, it will mean a few billion less money for health care than it has been so far. I certainly do not consider this step to be the balanced financing of health care, as the government promised. I consider the investigation of the most money in the Health Department to be an outrage, especially in a situation where the pressure on our health care is constantly increasing not only with regard to covid disease, but also with the arrival of several hundred thousand new state insured people in the short term in connection with the armed conflict in Ukraine. Moreover, with enormous inflation and rapid increases in energy, all costs of health care are increased. The arguments put forward by the government in support of these cuts in the explanatory memorandum are, in my view, misleading. The economic reasons put forward by the government to cut payments for state insured people are entirely secondary in today's situation, and the government should rethink this proposal and introduce automatic valorisation without reducing the current level, because instead of increasing the necessary funding for health care, I consider it a risk and a direct threat to the availability and quality of health care for our citizens, and I fundamentally disagree with that. Therefore, as I said, I propose a repeat of the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u23	Thank you, Madame. I have noted your proposal, it is the second draft in a row to repeat the second reading, we will vote on it. Mrs Margita Balaštíková will now speak and Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u24	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I am speaking on this point and, of course, on this point too, I do not want to address completely health care, I do not have the education, competence, knowledge, but I want to deal with what is close to me, and that is, of course, the diet for health care. We all see prices rising, budgets rising, but we're reducing the care allowance, and we're actually reducing the possibility for those hospitals to continue, or even the health system that they're used to, because we're investing elsewhere - and I don't want to talk about that, if that's right, I'm just saying that we should start focusing on a little bit of a different event. [[10.30 hours]] It is said that the food has increased the circus by 20 percent. We all know that, but it also averages the price of candy and so on. I'm based on the fact that from those basic foods where flour increases by 60 percent, the meat was 30%, so what patients in hospitals are actually going to eat increases our circus by some 40, 50 percent. And we all know, or I think we're counting on another increase in the fall, which is why we're going to have to spend our meals, because patients who are in hospitals can't go anywhere else to buy something. We've got sick bedridden. So I'm asking, where are the hospitals gonna take it, and how are they gonna do it? And, of course, they're calling in that they're already in trouble. Let me give you an example that we in the Zlín Region have one hospital where they have several kinds of meals and patients have contributed. They also contributed to quality regional food. It was tough at first, and I have to say, I took it as a very positive step to just get these people to eat healthy. Because, of course, these lunches came out much, much more expensive than the average. And I was glad that the leadership found the power to do something like that in itself, to offer it because, of course, it's something extra, it's bothering it, and it's not exactly what the health institution is supposed to be dealing with. However, I think it has brought its positives, and they themselves have stated that patients are contributing, of course the medical staff has also contributed. And they saw for themselves that yes, this is the way to get our people - eat healthy, eat safe and eat Czech food quality, checked. And what we're actually going to do here is we're going to cut things down so we can do all of this, because I don't expect it to be the only hospital in our country, we're going to stomp all this, we're going to destroy it, and we're going to go back to the potatoes and milk. I don't mean that it's not healthy, because potatoes are much healthier for a Czech citizen than rice if it doesn't have a diet, but we probably wouldn't want to go that way. And when I look at it, how it works in the family, the way it works in the family is that you just want to have those vacations, you want to have all of this. And so where you save money, you save on food. I don't expect doctors to want to save on medication, all this stuff. Certainly not. And I think they want to take care of the patient. So it just goes where it's the least painful, and that might be these things. Because, of course, every hospital has to pay - it would be disconnected. He's gonna have to pay the meds, he's gonna have to pay the wages. Well, we're gonna cut where it hurts the least, where maybe these people won't scream because they're glad they'll survive at all. And I have to say that probably this trip isn't quite right because there are people after surgery, there are people with health problems, and I think they should have healthy diets, quality, nutritionally balanced. And now it looks like it's all coming to an end, and we're actually starting to retreat from the standards that we've been used to, and that we've been getting close to for quite a long time. And because there's a finance minister sitting here, and of course, I have an economic education, so I say, "Absolutely." Sensual cuts, of course. Not cuts on its own population, not cuts that will make the health system worse. And I would like us to focus on those cuts that may not be popular, but they will not make the quality of health care worse and will not make our population's living standards worse. And to you, Minister, I'll leave where you make the cuts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u25	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. Thank you, too, Madame. Mrs Berenika Peštová has now signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u26	Well, thank you for your word. Of course, it is very difficult when many of my colleagues and not only my colleagues, but mainly experts in the field, came before me. But I've been thinking, or rather, with my contribution, I've been thinking about the increase in energy prices, and not just energy, but gas. I took the job and tried to ask around in individual regions, which, of course, have a regional hospital in their gesture. Our Ústí region of these hospitals has more, of course, in its gesture, like County Health, and they were lucky. They were lucky, because last year they were caught up and they're down for two years. It's still waiting for what actually happens. That is, the other regions claim that energy prices have risen up to four times in electricity, up to five times in gas. And actually, what my previous speakers said here, I'm not going to repeat myself - but what are we talking about? We are talking about the payment for state insurance companies before the government of YES or the coalition along with YES, so it was on some 998 crowns. Gradually, it increased to some 1 967 crowns, which means less than a thousand grand crowns. What are we talking about? We're talking about some 6 million state insured people involved. They're people who don't put anything in the system anymore, because they've already got their work done and they're retired properly. And then, of course, they're people who don't put anything into the system yet. And when I look at the total amount that it's raised for that time, when less than a thousand crowns are added, we're talking about some 72 billion extra dollars that went in there, which isn't small money, right? When you need different reconstructions. It has already been said here, as far as GDP is concerned, that it has reached 10 per cent of the health sector, which is also beautiful, because it has been at a level of 7.5 per cent all along, so we have actually reached the European standard. But I'm more concerned that Minister Válek will have his 14 billion or 14 billion taken from the insurance companies, and Minister Válek will take away the 8 billion, so we're almost 20 billion, and he doesn't really seem to mind, he's still smiling, and it's actually beautiful, it's beautiful. I'm just wondering if it happens here that how these cuts are going to happen, if the new ruling coalition doesn't happen to think that there should be co-financing of the individual citizens. I feel like we're sneaking in that direction, and eventually it's not going to be that our health care is free because we're paying for it with health insurance, but citizens are actually going to pay extra for it. But we sneak up on it slowly, and one day it just comes along, and it doesn't surprise us. I'm saying I'm not gonna repeat everything that's been said here. I'm just sorry that when the new ruling coalition came in, she said that she was actually going to make the savings and the 80 billion, and it's very sad that if I count it that way, the 14 plus 8 billion, actually one-quarter of the savings is taken by health care, which is sad. That's very sad. So I'm saying, I'm not stalling, I'm suggesting that this law goes back to second reading. And what makes me say that? Of course, I agree with the automatic valorisation, which is a step in the right direction, but I do not agree with the fact that the starting line is actually at 1,900 crowns, knowing that this year we are at some amount of 1 967. So in two years, we're actually getting to a whole other place than where we are today. Yes, the Minister will certainly come forward and say that we should have made an amendment to this, but I personally expected it from the ruling coalition to come up with something much more revolutionary than the fact that it would lower it to CZK 1,900 and it would be a starting line for the automaton. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u27	Thank you, Madame. Mr Vladimír Zlínský is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u28	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the little indisposition that has struck me at this very moment, but I hope to be able to do this, my speech. I have already spoken on this subject, and I have mentioned many reasons why I propose repeating the second reading. And now I would like to mention two points that I have not mentioned and which I consider important as a doctor. And what I want to say here is that some of the 14 billion that are actually supposed to be saved here could be rationally used. [[10.40 hours]] I think the main problem with our health care is the personnel problem. The question is why. A lot of people think that the medical profession, the doctor, is extremely attractive, extremely interesting to young people. But unfortunately, I think that the wheel of action is beginning to rotate, that the challenge and the responsibility prevails over the attractiveness of the profession. Because those young people must have had contact with negatively tuned persons. Which one of us comes to the doctor in excellent psychic well-being? They are, of course, stressed by lack of sleep and rest. They are exposed to huge information smog and a surge of information that is pouring on them from all sides and from all devices. All of this leads to the fact that, instead of making digitalization easier for doctors, it's more likely to overload their central nervous system. Furthermore, we succeeded - and I have nothing against it, so that you don't think that I'm an opponent of people, including paramedics, living, having fun, learning about the world and experiences. But unfortunately, as this experience also gets between doctors and young doctors, it does not work well on their ability to serve endless service and to be stressed out. I'm worried that the idea that we're going to increase the number of our medical students or these medical disciplines here will lead to a sudden improvement in that state, so I don't think that's gonna happen. Because even if those doctors finish their studies, those people have to redistribute into fields that aren't quite attractive. They are practical physicians for adults, practical doctors for children and adolescents, or other expertise where it is necessary for those doctors to be redistributed into these fields as quickly as possible, because a lot of us doctors will retire within a short period of time. I can't imagine how we're going to motivate these young doctors to go into these less attractive fields. Indeed, a large number will be needed. So I see, in addition to the financial motivation, the motivation of education. Because I think a lot of these young doctors can hear that. He hears that somebody's gonna take care of them, that he's gonna educate them, that he's not gonna let them professionally stunt them in those ambulances, that they're just gonna write some paperwork over and over again. To make them feel that the system is interested in learning not only formally, but mainly practically and really. I would very much like to ask ourselves, under what circumstances and conditions the older doctors would really be willing to take care of those young doctors, educate them, give them practical experience and skill. Furthermore, we should ask those young doctors if they are overloaded from those services, because such an ambulance service in the hospital is a disaster for young doctors, as I have heard. This has been extremely stressful for them several days before their ministry. To be honest, many of them no longer sleep, and then the service is extremely demanding and tiring. Then he often has to get to work in a short while. Then, of course, there's the burnout syndrome. You may have noticed that many young doctors and elders are so apathetic and often do not show much interest in communicating with us. Now I'm going to mention the other thing that I was talking about, that it's not much to talk about, and I think it's important. You might think it's a little science fiction, I've already talked about it here, that's the area of genetically modified pathogenic organisms. In that sense, I would very much like all of us, at least those who have a science degree, to try to acquire the current knowledge that this molecular biology, genetics, synthetic biology actually makes possible. In recent years, the study of macromolecular mechanisms, the pathogenicity of these micro-organisms, has developed enormously, which are incredible macromolecular machines that allow pathogenic expression. So mostly I'm talking about germs. I think that even now or in the near future, scientists will be able to create a superbacteria where in one entity, in one bacteria, many of these pathogenic abilities or machines can be combined. You can even put plasmids into these bacteria, which are parts of DNA that will allow resistance to all known antibiotics. The same applies, of course, to viruses and fungi. I don't want to be scared. I have no reason to be frightened, but it's more my concern to take into account that it's possible. That it is possible to construct pathogens that can be slightly pathogenic to lethal. In the worst version that came to mind - I say it's the worst option, I'm not saying it's going to happen tomorrow, but we have to take this into account - it's possible to reduce the reproductive capacity of the population. Or it is possible, or it will be possible, to affect the mental capacity of the population in this way. So I would like us to be aware of these risks. I don't want to panic, but I would like us to start thinking about how to detect and possibly defend such risks. I find it foolish to think that's not going to happen if it's humanly possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. He'll now perform with priority rights... President Schillerová gives priority to Mr Lubomír Wenzl. Please, you have the floor. The Chair shall then report to the Chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u30	Madam President, Minister, colleagues, I would like to briefly comment on this point, the amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance, the view of a non-medical person, but professionally related to health. I am convinced that the aim of each government should be to maintain, but mainly to develop a health care system that is at a very high quality level in our country, and which is important, accessible to all citizens of our Republic. This proposed amendment from my point of view, I believe, is at risk. Health care providers, and in particular those whose founder is the public sector, receive virtually 99 per cent of the payments for their performance from the public health system. Health has passed the stress test in the past period. We all applauded them, and today we want to take their money - 14 billion crowns. This situation, which arose as a result of the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic, fell on all citizens of our country, and my previous speaker mentioned this, when preventive care fell, stopped or reduced elective care. That's what we need to catch up on, and the money's just gonna be missing from the system. [[10.50 hours]] Another factor that enters into this at present, a difficult time for our country and more for the whole civilized world, is the unfortunate event and those events within the Russian annexation of Ukraine and the related increase in the prices of raw materials, oil, gas and energy as such, when this is projected and it was not included in the planning of the individual year, within the plans of individual providers, and it has to be dealt with and the money has to be taken somewhere. I'm not saying that out of the 14 billion, which in the case of a hospital is roughly a billion-dollar turnover of CZK 13 million, everything would be used to cover the increase in input prices, because even this amount, the 13 million, would not be enough. They need to find resources elsewhere, and those providers need to find them again. But it's just that the 14 billion crowns are just gonna be missing. I say, I do not want to prolong it, much has already been said, so I just conclude - for this proposal, or for this amendment, as it is presented, I cannot raise my hand and suggest that it be returned to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Nacher will now speak, and then President Schillerová with priority rights. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u32	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to make three brief remarks, which I would always accompany with a question for the Minister. First remark. It's officially called an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, but, as I said here at first reading, basically from my point of view, it's a continuation of the State Budget Act for this year, because the State Budget Act already counts on 14 billion, which we will cross out after this vote. So we're going into this - I don't know if you, colleagues, see and feel this - paradoxical situation that the state budget will be approved in March, but its content will not happen until the end of July, maybe August. This means that this is the thing that if - here I think again of remorse in relation to the previous government - if the previous government had done this, of course, you would be agile here as opposition, that the budget was approved with money that could not be reckoned with and for which it is necessary to change the law. And that's just the thing. So I have a first question here for the Minister, if this actually makes sense, when I also noticed somewhere in the media that an amendment to the State Budget Act is being prepared, because all these conditions, I'm not going to repeat them here, are changing over the course of the year, and this year is very turbulent, we agree. That means if the state budget bill changes, if that makes sense. If he doesn't come up with an amendment that will return the money to the health insurance, or the state budget bill will evolve completely differently. I mean, if there's gonna be any change, then why are we dealing with this at this point? That's the first question. The second thing is the development in health care, and if the funds are missing. I'm not an expert in health care, and I'm not going to be here to make it out of myself, but it needs to be said that from the moment this government came up with the vision that it would cut the 14 billion for state insurance, and the state budget would save the 14 billion, she didn't know some of the things that we already know today, because there was a first, second reading vote on the state budget, until the third one was in March. This means that, for example, the war in Ukraine, it was unknown, it didn't know, it didn't know that there would be hundreds of thousands of refugees who would also fall into the health system. And now all of a sudden, here's the combination that there's going to be more insured people, in this case fugitives, but at the same time 14 billion less. Well, that certainly wasn't part of the plan. So would it be worth reacting to? The second change is, as I have noticed, and you, colleagues, are also returning here in some way. And that wasn't expected to happen in January, February, because it looked like it was over. Now I'm reading some information that scares people, but it's going to mean -- it seems -- I don't know -- some kind of charge and health and health care claims. So it's the second change thing. Third - huge inflation. That's what some colleagues have been talking about. This means an increase in costs, energy prices, food prices, etc. This, of course, also applies to health care. So here we have three change things - war in Ukraine and refugees, covid, the return of the covid, and price growth. So if it wasn't worth it -- that's my second question -- just change it, change this decision that was made at some point at some point. I'm saying I didn't agree to this from the start, but I respect that it was some kind of political decision, but now the situation here is changing. I've listed three basic things here that we didn't have at a time when you were trying to save that $14 billion on state insurance. I'm not saying you knew, either, but you didn't. And the situation has changed, and you're still insisting that there's less than 14 billion in the health insurance system. I dare say one last thing. I understand that this law has been going from the beginning to the Minister of Finance, who has also defended him here since the first reading, but I have not heard the position here on the microphone, the strong one, the Minister of Health, because it is logically affecting him. That means, not that he's going to be caught somewhere by a journalist in the hallway, but to say, on a microphone, with the intervention that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health is defending - that seems to me to be a legitimate request, a request, whatever you want, to an opposition MP - that is, how the Minister of Health Mr Válek is openly taking this stand. So these were some of my notes. The first two went to the Treasury Secretary, the last one to the Minister of Health, who isn't here right now, maybe someone will tell him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, President Schillerová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have repeated this in the adoption of the amendment to the State Budget Act, I have repeated it every time I read the amendment to this Act, or Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on Public Health Insurance Insurance Insurance, and I will repeat it also today: the submitted amendment is incorrect, unreasonable, and extremely irresponsible at this time. People's health is not spared either in good times or in bad times. Moreover, it is a huge mistake to consider health care an area that just consumes money. On the contrary, high-quality health care can also significantly increase GDP growth. Because of it, people can work longer and better. [[Her?]] Worldwide, the richer the country is, the more money it spends on health care. They have more satisfaction and a better health situation for the population, although this is not, of course, just a result of the health activity. Healthy citizens are also economically advantageous for the state, and I'm sure you'll all agree with me. The so-called fiscal consolidation cannot be based on fiscal tricks, and the proposed amendment is a purely marketing move towards the alleged consolidation of public finances, which is a lie, because the investigation into citizens' health is not consolidation, and at the same time this amendment will only move from one pocket to another. You're turning state insurance people into hostages to your policy. Today, providers do not know the amount and extent to which care will be paid. [[11.00 hours]] Again, let me remind you, I've already talked about it here, I admit, but I repeat, when we took over the Ministry of Health's resort, that means the Minister came there at the end of 2017, he was in a rather miserable state. And you can remind me a hundred times that we were in government before, just miserable. Our government has embarked on solving system problems that have been postponed for decades. The parties of the current five-calice long-term health department, I think in the previous years, have created a cinderella that was as good as possible in their plans to privatise this system. The Ministry of Health Resort was underfunded in all respects, from the salaries of medical personnel, doctors and nurses. Also the financial condition and equipment of hospitals. We had to delay individual Czech hospitals. That was done by the time of the covideo. The state of public higher education in the field of health has also been miserable. And, of course, I'm also talking about payments for state insured people. No party of your five-calice has dealt with system reforms in health care in the last decade. No one has addressed the problem that a large part of our high-quality health professionals go to the surrounding countries every year, primarily Germany, Austria, and how to tackle this problem systemically. The problem and its solution awaited us. And the problems we had - it was not an easy solution and we had a huge number of them. Of course he doesn't. In 2017, when we took over this resort, the payment for state insured persons was something above 900 crowns, exactly 920 crowns. We gradually increased this payment to 969, 1 018, 1 567, 1 767 and finally to 2022 - 1 967 CZK. Just for comparison, I'll reminisce. In 2016, CZK 62,3 billion went to the state insurance company. In 2017 - CZK 65.3 billion, in 2018 - CZK 68.4 billion, in 2019 it was already 71.8. In 2020 - 97.3. In 2021 - 127 billion and in 2022, we planned 138.9 billion. The YES movement understood and understood that we must adequately evaluate our doctors and doctors. We understand and understand that, given the increase in the prices of health care, medicines, technology, but also the increase in the salaries of health personnel mentioned above, which is a step absolutely necessary to ensure a decent life for these people corresponding to the indisputable complexity and importance of their professions, we must also prevent the exodus of quality labour from the health sector abroad. The increase of these payments was important and necessary due to the initial underfunded state of the Czech health sector and, of course, also due to the increased costs caused by the commercial pandemic. No one planned it, no one expected it. The payment for state insured persons, as I said before, was, overall, nearly CZK 130 billion in 2021, 127 billion in exactly. Because it was precisely necessary with regard to the global pandemic, but also in the field of remuneration, because we had to, and I think you've been there a lot of you, sitting in opposition benches in the last parliamentary term, so you've been plotting for it, so you've supported the idea of rewarding these people who saved us at the time of the covide pandemic at the expense of their own health and life. Personal, I mean. Today we are watching something that we already know intimately. Our movement has consensually increased the payments for state insured people so that we can settle the debt in the system that your governments have created in the past. And because - let me just remind you, your governments, when you had a health department, have increased the total payment for state insured people between 2007 and 2017 by less than 18 billion in ten years. And then it wasn't supposed to be underfunded! Increasing payments for state insured people mirrored the financial demands of health care and responded, I repeat, to the current development of the global pandemic. So it was perfectly justified given the current situation. We had a clear goal - to ensure a high quality of health care and to protect the health of people living in our country. And unfortunately, some previous speakers have already talked about this, the pandemic of covid in the Czech Republic is getting stronger. For example, scientists from the Research Institute of Water Management Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk warn that the amount of viral particles in waste water has increased in recent weeks. Unfortunately, these values are comparable to the beginning of the first fall wave of the pandemic in 2021. I draw from public sources. At the end of April 2022, the number of viral particles decreased. Then, in May 2022, these values were at the limit of ascertainability and so on. I just want to remind you that the government closes its eyes before. Analysis of the waste water sample is, according to experts, more objective than classic tests. Because we all know that a lot of people don't go to those over the holidays. The results can thus be underestimated and the real number of cases may be several times higher. I don't want to scare you, I know we're different today than when the pandemic started, that there's just a certain degree of inoculation. We know the fourth dose has been started. I say for myself, I'm gonna get vaccinated. But I don't think it's a reasonable step at this time that you want to achieve and, without a doubt, in the next few minutes, you will reach a vote in relation to public health insurance. Moreover, in times of volatile inflation, which is the highest in the European Union in the Czech Republic after the Baltic countries, Eurostat figures have now been published, the fourth highest, the logic of increasing the payment for state insured people is only increasing. This increase will have a significant impact, I think, now the rise in inflation and price growth, the impact on the height of the costs of health establishments, even for reasons, and it is one of the reasons for reducing payments for state insured persons. Just for the record. You know that the increase in electricity is about 31 percent, natural gas by almost 50 percent, heat and hot water by almost 18 percent, water, and so I can continue. But, of course, the rise in food prices, which rise diametrically, is reflected in this. And I saw a report on Czech Television from some of our hospitals that this is reflected in a huge increase in operating costs. Please note that saving for old-age care, mothers for maternity, carefree children I see as gambling with a fragile medical situation. I am threatened that there will be no funding for innovative treatment of biological chemotherapy, and that treatment of rare diseases will be reduced. And unfortunately, I must also draw attention to the economic effects that may result in an increase in corruption in health establishments. At the same time, in 2021, the public health insurance system managed a deficit of almost 13 billion, namely 12.4 billion. Even in spite of our increase in compensation for state insured persons. [[Despite]] If Petr Fiala's cabinet did not change the level of payment for state insured persons, then the public insurance system would likely be re-deficit. [[11.10 hours]] A close link with the negative balance in the system is also due to the development of financial reserves in the system, which are scheduled for a significant year-on-year decline, and it is likely that these reserves will be exhausted. And according to the experts, I'm getting back from public sources, with up to three health insurance companies at risk. You can't just talk about a public health insurance company that says he can handle it now. [[General]] We don't just have a public health insurance company. [[General]] It is therefore clear that the current five-calice is going to decimate the financial background of health insurance companies, which will then want to deal with both health care charging, privatization of health facilities. I read an article this week, an interview with the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, an economic expert from the ODS who said - rather than raising taxes, to charge health care. What are those opinions? We've been through this before, and I hope that's the opinion we want? You admit, five-wheelers, you want to charge? I'm thinking about what these opinions are. Some say - raising taxes, he says - rather than raising taxes, I agree, I also oppose raising taxes - so I rather charge health care. I draw from public sources. The health insurance union declares that they simply can't afford any more unplanned expenses. On the contrary, they will have to make the most of their savings in the upcoming conditions. So I don't know about you, fellow Members, but I'm not at all well at the verdict of maximum health savings. So I'm asking you again - is the land preparing to charge health care here? After all, we have already witnessed this in the past, when, in essence, visits to doctors have been charged, and this has deterred Czech citizens from solving their often acute health problems. In this period, for example, health fees have deterred patients using first aid medical services, and up to 80 percent of emergency visits have decreased. And as a result of delaying visits to doctors, there has also been a reduced capture of serious diseases, whose subsequent treatment is significantly more costly than the cost of their early illness. [[Treatment]] My colleague profesor Špičák, a member of the ANO movement, spoke very professionally about a number of problems. The five-calice has declared, and we agree that the provision of health services to refugees in our territory must be provided, that is without a doubt, it has our full support. However, the exact number of refugees from Ukraine who are staying with us before the war is still unknown. As I read and follow various statements, according to the June estimate, some 280,000 to 300,000 refugees remain in the Czech Republic, mostly women with children. They have been granted state insurance status, which means that at the moment we have tens to hundreds of thousands of new state insurance companies, which, of course - and I repeat again, has our support - we have to take care of. So, even in view of this circumstance, we do not consider the withdrawal of 14 billion to public health insurance as a reasonable step. So I reiterated most of the arguments that I made here during the individual readings during the negotiations on the state budget for 2022, and I appeal to you to consider this step and not to take and decimate Czech health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vít Vomáčka, Mr Vít Vomáčka, will now speak with effect. Please. Then, with Vice-President Richterová and Minister Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u36	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully to President Schillerová's speech, through Madam President, and I actually found that your government had to come eight years ago in order for health care to be watered by the sun and to be a paradise on the ground in health care. I will not argue about it, it is of course your opinion, but what I was very interested in was your sentence that you had to come to the Ministry of Health as an ANO movement to resolve the departure of doctors and medical personnel to foreign and foreign establishments. I've never noticed it, it's new information to me, it surprises me, and it's a real novelty to me that I've never noticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u37	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Madam Vice-President Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind myself in just a few sentences that what we are going to vote contains very substantial amendments, and they contain a very important thing for the predictability of our payments to state insured persons, and that is automatic valorisation. So I would like to remind you, because it is very important for me that we behave predictablely as a state, and it is also important for health insurance companies, for health care providers, that we will have transparent, clearly, publicly available data measurable development of payments for state insured persons. Of course, as almost everyone seems to know, and by creating such a huge amount of insured persons, it is simply very important in terms of preventing confusion in the financing of health care. And the second thing where we introduce this principle, the principle of predictability and prevention of problems before they arise is also contained in the amendment, where, together with my colleagues, I propose that we make it possible - I stress: they have made it possible, not ordered, but made it possible - to increase the amount of funds in the so-called prevention funds. Health insurance companies now have quite a lot of limited resources for rehabilitation, psychosocial support from so-called prevention funds, as well as sports clubs for children or generally contributions that lead to the promotion of a healthy lifestyle, including possible diet needs. That's a wide range of things, support activities that money from health insurance funds can go to. We are now uniting this to make it possible, as far as finances are concerned, for all health insurance companies, and to promote healthy life, rehabilitation activities and, in general, activities that prevent diseases or prevent the deepening of some conditions in order to support this, so now there should be an opportunity for these funds to increase to roughly threefold. I'm going to close it by saying that where you need to swim or sports clubs, people had the opportunity to choose from their health insurance company about 500 per year, so in the future, if the health insurance company decides, if it simply takes advantage of this option, it would take CZK 1,500 per year to contribute to the sports club. On this case, I just want to conclude that this is how we want to promote prevention, which is always cheaper, and on the automatic valorisation of payments for state policy holders, I want to stress again that this is the principle of predictability and transparency, which is so important that I think it is good that we all take it away from this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u39	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mrs Berenika Peštová will now make a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u40	Thank you for your word. I am pleased that you have been looking forward to seeing me, through Madam President. In any case, I must respond to Mrs Richterová. As for the automatic valorization, we don't have a problem with that, on the contrary, we've always called for it. There's more to it than the problem of what part it's in. And you guys are talking about how it's going to depend on the sum of CZK 1,900, when you know very well that we are currently at CZK 1,967, so we are quite somewhere else. And we're talking about moving two years in time when it should happen, and in those two years, we're going to go to 1,900 instead of the amount we have today. If you came up with this and we talked about it because, in the long run, this amount is actually undervalued, we all know that, which is why it has been constantly increasing up to the 1 997, sorry, 1 967, but the point is that if the amount were to be derived from something else, we have persons here without taxable performance, and currently persons without taxable performance pay CZK 2, 172. Why don't you take this amount as the starter, and from that amount, the valorization would be done? Why are you going to an amount that is lower than those people who have no income, and is it the minimum amount that they have to pay? I'm saying we got a hit on the valorization, but we don't care how much it counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u41	Thank you, Madame. And now, with priority rights, Minister Stanjura will speak. Before I give him the floor, I will read my apologies: Mr Dvořák apologizes from today's meeting between 11 and 13 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Koten apologizes for today's meeting for working reasons, and Mr Kučera apologises today until 14 o'clock for working reasons. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Allow me to read a legislative technical comment: pursuant to § 95 para. I propose to the Chamber of Deputies this change of effectiveness in two parts. One. In Amendment A1, Mr Philipp, House Document No 988, the text of Art. IV - This law shall take effect on 1 August 2022, with the exception of Art. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) II, which shall become effective on 1 January 2023, shall be replaced by Article IV, Effectiveness: This Act shall take effect on the day following its publication, with the exception of Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) II, which shall take effect on 1 January 2023. Two. In Amendment A2, Mr Philipp's 971 House document, the text of Art. In Effectiveness: This Act shall take effect on 1 July 2022, with the exception of Articles II and III, which shall become effective on 1 January 2023, shall be replaced by the text in Article 2 (2) of the Act. In Effectiveness: This Act shall take effect on the day following its publication, with the exception of Art. II and III, which shall take effect on 1 January 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u43	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? This is not the case, I am ending the debate. I wonder if the Minister is interested in the final word? [[He doesn't.]] Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? [[He doesn't.]] Please, Prime Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u44	I am so sorry, Madam President. Since he's sitting next to the government, under a secret regime, so I have to physically go there, so I'm asking for a five-minute recess for a club meeting to bring the members of the government to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u45	Yes. I declare a duration of 5 minutes, up to 11.27 hours. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 11.22 to 11.27 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss the bill. President Alena Schillerová will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I was expecting there to be a final word, well, respectfully, it wasn't. But my honored colleague Patrik Nacher spoke very politely with a request and questions to the Minister of Health, because still, let us remember, it is a law that the Minister of Health is required to submit under the competence law. It's always been like that. Okay, you agreed that the Minister of Finance is presenting it, but we wanted to hear it on a microphone, and my colleague Patrik Nacher made it clear, not just some press statements or television, but here clearly before the Chamber of Deputies, what is the attitude of the Minister of Health to this law, this amendment, to the fact that it is taking 14 billion. He wasn't here in the hall, so I dare just remind myself now that he's here in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I will just repeat that we have closed the debate and we will now proceed as follows. Before that, I will read an apology - Minister of Culture Baxa apologizes for working reasons today from 17.45 to 19 o'clock. In the debate, Mr Okamura, Mrs Peštová, Mr Wenzl and other proposals for repeating the second reading have been repeated repeatedly. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I don't want to be annoying, I know you're looking forward to the vote. But it's a very important law. We're taking 14 billion of public health insurance. I think that open the debate for a moment - we've already said everything we wanted - so that the Minister of Health can respond when he wasn't here. I understand that the government is acting, I understand that, but you have in your hands both the organisation of the meeting of the Government and the organisation of the Chamber of Deputies, that is, if you have organized it this way, I am sorry, but the Chamber of Deputies or our colleagues, my colleagues, presented the opinion of Patrik Nacher, our Member, would like to hear the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies. So again, I beg you politely whether the debate could be open and the Minister of Health can express himself. I certainly don't follow anything, we've all said what we wanted in these long weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u49	Thank you. President Okamura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u50	Well, ladies and gentlemen, what we would also like for the SPD to express here is the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09, why the government takes 14 billion health insurance companies and wants to make the availability of health care worse for our citizens and conditions for health professionals... Now I've seen that Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura has whispered something to the minister here and we read from his mouth that he told him not to perform, so that's really interesting. [[♪ War ♪]] [[laughter of some present]] But the Minister here could disprove or confirm what he said, which is why I'm bringing it up here, because you're so talkative in a different way, Minister, so hopefully you won't run out of words right now. And the argument here, Madam Vice-President of the House of Kovářová, that there is a closed debate. Madam Vice-President, don't play us here. The Minister may speak, thereby reopening the debate. So it's not an argument. It is really up to Minister Vlastimil Válek and any of the ministers, including Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who can also speak and open the debate to hear the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. So it's up to you, Prime Minister, if the Minister of Health finally explains it here, that's the health guarantee in your government. If you allow him to tell us why you're taking those 14 billion health insurance companies. A number of arguments were made here, the doctors spoke here both from the SPD and from the other opposition party, the ANO. So, Minister, we would like to know your opinion on this and, above all, the answers to our questions. Because, once again, you take 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies. Indeed, this may make the availability of healthcare and the working conditions of health professionals worse. It's a very serious matter. And we're asking you to come forward and comment on this. And we will, of course, react briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to be clear, thank you for the training in the Rules of Procedure, in any case, I have stated that the debate is closed after the break, so as to be clear where we are. Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible for a debate to be opened if the Minister comes forward. So here it is up to the ministers whether they decide to open the debate or not. Please, Chairman Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u52	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I would just like to point out that we are at the third reading. There is massive abuse of third reading repeatedly from the opposition, but I admit that the opposition always does it. But everything that was to be said by the ministers was said at the first and second reading, at the third reading only amendments are to be passed, to propose technical amendments. Of course, the opposition here can talk as long as it wants, but it cannot count on ministers to respond to it again, for the third time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Schillerová's priority right is to report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u54	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the lessons learned from the President of the ODS club Marek Benda, I always appreciate his expert opinion. But we could write long memoirs here about what was ever said and said in third reading. I think we've been sticking to the subject, at least if I speak for my colleagues. My colleagues have warned me here because I am still learning, in Section 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. You are right in that, Madam Vice-President, that a member of the Government could indeed open it, but the House can also act without debate at the reopening of the debate, until the vote on the final resolution begins. Of course, then there's the alternative that a member of the government can open it. That means it's possible to propose the vote. So, please, I would propose this vote in accordance with Paragraph 66 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u55	Yes, thank you. Without debate, therefore, we will vote on this proposal whether we will open the debate again. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. I've noticed an interest in the check-out, I've checked you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We'll wait a while for the enrollment to settle. We will therefore vote on whether the debate will be open. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 71, registered 127 Members and Members, for 58, versus 58. The motion was denied. This means that we have not opened the debate. And we would now proceed to the vote on the proposal to repeat the second reading, as stated in the debate. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 72, registered 127 Members and Members, for 58, versus 68. The motion was denied. This means that we have rejected the motion to repeat the second reading. We would therefore now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u56	Madam President, Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies, ministers, colleagues, a health committee has been convened on this proposal on 24 June 2022. I'll allow you to come to his conclusions: The Committee on Health of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after discussing the draft law at second reading recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic vote in third reading on amendments to the Government Bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, House printing 166, in the following order: (1) proposals for legislative technical adaptations; (2) A2 point 2 of the text '1 July 2022'; (3) A1; (4) A2 with the exception of the text "1 July 2022"; 5) voting on point B and then on the whole proposal. Secondly, it takes the following positions on individual amendments, namely on the first non-advising proposal, on the second, third and fourth recommendations, and empowers Tom Philipp to familiarise the Chamber of Deputies with this resolution. [[11.40 hours]] I can therefore suggest that, if the loaded proposal of Minister Stanjura is agreed as a legislative technical proposal, then the second vote, that is to say, A2 point 2 of the text from 1 July 2022 will cease to be meaningful, or if the first vote is positive, the second vote would be launched and we would proceed to the third and the next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u57	Yes. Does anyone else have a proposal for a procedure? It's not like that. We will therefore put to the vote on the proposal for a procedure, as the rapporteur has said. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 120 Members and Members signed up, for 127, against none. [[correct 127]] The motion was accepted. So we approved the procedure. I now ask the rapporteur to take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u58	The first vote will be on the proposal for legislative technical amendments, which were made a moment ago from the mouth of Minister Stanjura. I don't have to read it, I hope. Of course, if anyone wants to, I'll read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u59	There's no interest in that. repeat this proposal by the Minister. Now the Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Yes. Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 74, registered by 120 Members and Members, for 109, against 17. [[correct 127]] The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u60	As I have already announced, the vote of the second A2 point 2 text - that is omitted. So we're approaching point A1. This is the point at which the payment for state insured persons is actually reduced to CZK 1 487 and the mechanism of regular valorisation is introduced by the amount of CZK 1,900 for 2023.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u61	Committee opinion? [[The Committee's position was agreed, recommended.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. We are voting on point A1. I ask who's in favor, have him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 75, registered 127 Members and Members, for 69, versus 58. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u62	We will now have the A2 vote, which means that it is a harmonisation of the rules for the creation of a fund of prevention across individual insurance companies. The fund is governed by two laws, and those laws weren't the same, so it's unifying. And the other thing is that overall, the possibility of a fund of prevention is increasing, as Mrs Richter has previously informed Mrs Richterová here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u63	Yes. Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Yes. Initiating vote. We are voting on point A2 with the exception of the text of 1 July 2022. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 76, registered 127 Members and Members, for 126, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u64	The next vote is on point B. The essence of this item is the extension of the transitional period after which orthodontic care will actually be paid or paid to persons over 22 years of age, until 2023. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u65	Yes. The plaintiff? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 77, registered 127 Members and Members, for 126, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask whether we have voted on all the amendments, Mr rapporteur? [[Yes.]] Yes. We will therefore now vote on the whole bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, according to House press 166, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 78, registered 127 Members and Members, for 69, versus 58. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister. And President Schillerová wants to speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u66	There. [[A silence.]] That's how you did it, Minister. You ripped off Czech health care by 14 billion to caress your ego for saving. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] But he didn't. I didn't! You moved the money from one pocket to another. And from the pocket you pulled them out, it's very dangerous there. It's about the health of our citizens! And we'll be your black conscience, and we'll keep coming to remind you of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u67	Thank you, Madam President. President Okamura will now speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u68	So, ladies and gentlemen, Petr Fiala's government managed to take 14 billion crowns from health care. We've been here almost six months trying to stop you. And I wanted to tell you one thing: for all the neglect of health care of citizens of the Czech Republic, for all the delays you, the coalition government of Petr Fiala in the composition of ODS, TOP 09, Pirates, STAN and KDU-ČSL will be able to do. Any article that will now be anywhere that has been neglected for citizens, even if the only case where there was a delay where they had to wait has had health consequences, or has been postponed, is your coalition government's full responsibility. And we're going to repeat this whole term to you so that you remember it well so that the citizens of the Czech Republic know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-001-002.u69	Thank you. We will now continue the negotiations. There's a point number on the agenda.
