ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u1	77. Government bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Law /House print 137/ - third reading I would like to ask the Vice-President of the Government for Digitalisation and the Minister for Regional Development, Ivan Bartoš, to take the position at the rapporteur's table as well as the rapporteur, Mrs Klára Dostálová. The motion for rejection and the amendments to the press are set out in the Chambers of Press 137/2, which was delivered on 3 May 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 137/3. And now I ask the plaintiff, the Minister - is he interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u2	Thank you for your word. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, we meet again over the amendment to the new construction law, which aims to postpone the implementation of the system of state construction administration so as to avoid the actual establishment of the Supreme Building Office and regional construction offices. On the contrary, we will maintain the establishment and implementation of the Special and Appeals Building Office, which should begin to exercise its competence 1. 7. 2023 as planned. The bill introduces a so-called transitional period when from 1. 7. 2023 According to the new construction law, the Specialised and Appellate Building Office will already allow reserved buildings, i.e. the buildings listed in Annex 3 to the new construction law, in short, the line construction. Other constructions will be up to 30. 6. 2024 to be authorised under existing legislation. Let me just stress that the subject of this amendment is not a fundamental substantive change to the new construction law. It is discussed separately, with an inter-reviewed commentary on this material ended two days ago, which is 9 May of this year. Several hundred comments were received, and we will deal with these comments publicly in the next two months. However, this is not the subject here of the third reading of this amendment, which has only the storage part. 25 days. 3. 2022 was approved at first reading by the government's draft amendment to the Construction Act, which is conducted under the House press 137. He went through the second reading 29 years later. 4. 2022 and the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed this proposal on 5 May this year. Mrs Dostálová's proposal for a bill was applied at second reading for rejection, but the adoption of this proposal by the guarantee committee is not recommended. Two related amendments have emerged from the Guarantee Committee, removing the effectiveness of the introduction of public administration information systems on 1 January 2024, since they are not really launched at the end of 2023, especially in the testing and implementation phase, we would not fit there by this date. The Committee recommends both these proposals. The last amendment, quite comprehensive, was applied by Mr Martin Kolovratník at second reading. I think complex that it contains more things, it consists of five parts relating to, for example, the diversions of statutory cities, the supervision of the designer, then the extension of the range of reserved buildings and more. Neither part of this amendment has been supported by the guarantee committee and I do not support these changes either. Madam, honourable Members, I believe that today you will join the position of the Guarantee Committee and we will succeed in moving this bill forward successfully. As I have already předřele na intro, the discussion on substantive changes to the new construction law, which has already been implemented here, although this amendment does not contain these changes and which will probably be very intensively implemented with a substantive amendment, is not the subject of this proposal. It will await us in the coming months, and especially in connection with the public settlement of the concluded inter-ministerial commentary procedure. Thank you for your attention. I believe that we will discuss this point quickly so that we can address the next point at which the members of the government, Vít Rakušan, will speak on the government's strategy for managing the refugee crisis from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u3	I also thank you, I am now opening the debate and the rapporteur is interested in speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u4	Thank you. From the rapporteur's point of view, I would like to recapitulate what is the fundamental principle of the proposal. The new construction law will take effect on 1 July 2023, as originally planned, but only in relation to the so-called reserved constructions, i.e. constructions within the scope of the Specialised and Appeals Building Office. The rest of the law, although largely formally effective, does not apply. In other words, for all other buildings, but also for everything else that the construction law regulates, the old regulation still applies. For the above reason a Specialised Construction Office will also be established, but not the regional construction offices and the Supreme Construction Office. The highest building office must be established, but it will only be set up in an organisational manner. Its tasks will effectively be carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development, but not as an independent office. The proposal submitted can be considered a compromise solution, even if there are substantive reservations about it. The biggest weakness of the proposal is the fact that the proposal does not effectively shift the effectiveness of a part of the new construction law, but only introduces the use of most processes that it considers to be taking place, whether through planning or authorisation processes. The new building law would apply only to reserved buildings, buildings related to them and constructions forming a set of buildings. I believe that the situation where the new building law will be effective, but most of the processes, including those newly initiated, will take place in accordance with existing legislation, can cause confusion and legal uncertainty, which will only lead to an extension of the processes as such. This may result in the exact opposite of what was intended by the new construction law and the amendment, i.e. the processes to accelerate and simplify. Especially in relation to Act No 284/2021 Coll., so called. the amendment law, it can be stated that the processes will be most complicated for the authorities, but also for the builders. Such a condition cannot be considered to be correct. The question also arises whether this procedure is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, namely, if it is possible by law to establish an obligation to follow an already ineffective law, and the law which replaces it is fully effective. [[10.10 hours]] The proposal for a deferral was made at second reading on 29 April 2022, the deadline for discussion in the committee was shortened to 7 days. Two amendments were tabled, one of the workshop of the Ministry of Regional Development with Mr Bartoš, who is already part of the resolution of the Guarantee Committee, and are under the letters A1 and A2, and then, at second reading, Mr Kolovratník's amendment, which is under the letter B, was tabled and divided into five parts. As part of the second reading, there was also a motion for rejection. The Committee, the Guarantee Committee, which means the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, recommended the amendment under points A1 and A2, the amendment under points B1 to B5 did not recommend it. At the same time, the committee did not recommend a motion for rejection and recommended the bill as a whole for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u5	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Martin Kolovratník. Yes, the debate is open, the debate is open. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u6	Hello, thank you for your word. Good morning, colleagues, let me ask Madam President: Are we already in the general debate after the rapporteur's report? In my performance, I would like to talk or focus on two topics. The first will be a response to the opening words of Minister Bartoš, who recapitulated or once again told us at what stage we are dealing with this law or this issue. The minister said that this is therefore - I will not repeat his words - a drop-off amendment that moves us somewhere in time, and that when we subsequently discuss material intent, a substantive amendment or a change in construction legislation. The minister also expressed the hope that this would happen quickly and that we would start focusing on the content. I will not repeat what has already been said here in these debates several times at second reading and at first reading, that whether we like it or not, we will understand and respect the House of Mathematics or the numbers that the government coalition has here in the House, and we will certainly try to find at least the maximum penetration with you in this substantive amendment. But what I feel as very, very important and very fundamental is that it has to sound to you, to the public and also to you, Minister, when you say, let's just put it off for a year, then let's focus on the content, so the problem that it needs to be said to make you realize it, to hear it, one of the problems, one of the more problems that I'm going to cause or extend by putting it down for a year and you're not going to solve is the issue of black buildings, the issue of black buildings in the Czech Republic. And just at random, if you're not interested, I'll remind you of what has resonated many times in the media - not only black buildings of various buildings in the quotation marks of developers and entrepreneurs somewhere in protected landscape areas, illustrated in Šumavsko, there was often a lot, but also problems in recreational areas, in the territory of the Elbe basin, the Vltava basin, in those I say tight areas or on the banks of water areas, there are a lot of black buildings. This concerns so-called mobileheims, this concerns objects that are intended for short-term recreation or housing, and the law and the Ministry of Regional Development cannot work with them. There are different interpretations, insurance companies will secure the buildings, but construction agencies will not recognize them as construction and leave them in some kind of legal vacuum as building black. And this is a huge problem that we have, which is happening, which often leaves civil servants at construction offices in a very difficult, unfortunate situation, because they often don't know what to do with it, and we, again, with the delay that we're trying to give you, unfortunately, have failed to talk, so by delaying us here, we're just going to move one of the many things back a year. I'll try to explain briefly what the problem is. It is an existing regulation, which is addressed by Section 129 of the Construction Act, which contains procedures for the removal of the construction and there is also a subservient procedure for the additional permit of the construction. Again, perhaps from the media as well as you who do not deal with the issue in detail, you must have met with it at some point. Here the existence of these two related controls is not happy, to builders who are, say, aggressive, regardless of having everything allowed forward, it provides relatively large obstructive potential. Moreover, we are working on this issue as well as with the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court, which has created a complex process, the proceedings, until the moment when really those builders, the controversial, problematic, who are not allowed, are not resolved, they can apply for additional permission of the building at any time, repeatedly, even in the case of a pending appeal procedure. There is a 30-day deadline for applying for an additional building permit, the court declared it only orderly in that caselaw, so it is not necessary to fully comply with it, it is only orderly, and it causes that, in the case of some effective defence of a black builder, consisting of repeated and repeated, over and over again filing an application for additional building authorisation, the construction office is not in an easy position, the applicable legislation does not solve this. As I said, the Supreme Administrative Court case-law seeks a way out, which makes these construction offices helpless, comes with a great delay in time, and, as I said, if the construction worker is involved in obstructive negotiations, he simply will appeal, try again and again, and black construction simply will not be effectively removed, the law will not be agreed. These are often academic opinions from the administrative court, which are separated from ordinary decision-making practice. I also have people who deal with it or who are in the field, try to allow these mobile buildings here, have them in accordance with the law, but do not get the rights, even and visa in the sense that they will want to serve where the construction authorities do not solve black buildings, will fall until criminal announcements on the inactivity of the construction authorities, because each of us and on his property does not want to build a black building, wants to follow the law. So, Minister, please take this as some illustration example of what is happening, what we have now in the real field, and now I will add B - and the Minister as co-author of our new construction law will surely give me the truth, or it might even be more or better - we have solved this, it is addressed there, it is described there, we have tried to find a new effective way, but we have tried to find the way to 1 July 2023, that is, a year or a year from now, and a bit of this problem that I have now described could already be solved, but unfortunately you are coming up with an annual delay, with an annual delay. I don't think you'll change your mind, but please think about this, I appeal to this. And I'm going back to our many performances that have been here in the House - this may be one of the moments at which we can talk very quickly, very efficiently, and we don't have to stay here in a political dispute about whether the construction authorities should stay in the municipalities or not. I keep repeating: in my opinion, citizens and builders don't really care where they bring the application and whether - they don't actually bring it to them, we agree on it, they will be put digitally - but they don't care if the construction worker, who is to settle it, who is to allow it, whether he has a work contract with the municipality or whether he has a work contract with the state or state institution, who is his boss, it doesn't really matter to the builder, the applicant. But it doesn't matter to him, and there is a huge problem when we have black buildings in our country, our republic that are not allowed, they do not meet safety standards, and so far, as we learn, the issue of black buildings by this design - I want to say this here - we are moving about a year and beyond, and at least for the whole year 2023 and part of the year 2024 black buildings in the Czech Republic will not be dealt with because they continue to be covered in quotation marks by the obsolete, old building law, which is now valid, doesn't solve them, it will be, Minister and colleagues, your responsibility - I want you to hear it, and I want you to know it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u7	Thank you for your contribution, and now with priority rights, the rapporteur is applied for, and then Mr Jiří Mašek, duly applied for, can prepare himself. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u8	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. My esteemed colleagues, I am, of course, also here in the debate that was for the approval of the programme, listening to my colleague, through you, Mr Cogan, if anyone has any doubts. I have the doubts, I must confess, because I simply do not understand how this House can fully approve of the postponement of the building law, which is, from your mouth, only for reserved buildings. That means the new construction law is good for the state, but you say it's not good for the citizens. I really have my doubts about this, and I'm going to do everything for it today to convince you again that delaying the new construction law is a bad way, because young people need to plan their lives, they need to stand up to people's deadlines, and not to be like it is today, that when a citizen doesn't do anything to the state, they immediately get a fine like a fool in 24 hours, but when the state doesn't meet the deadlines for a citizen, nothing happens. And this is what you're taking into account here, instead of putting a number two together here, so that we can bring the building bill into life as quickly as possible, so that it really has an effect not only on large buildings, strategic constructions of the state, but also on ordinary citizens, builders and so on. And you're trying to reverse the mermopower here. I don't understand anymore. Instead of at least complying with the deadlines that the new construction law has given, you're trying to postpone it here for a year. And I really cannot accept that, and that is why I have doubts, and again I will try to appeal to the things that the new construction law contains to consider your decision, because I really think that the crisis that the Czech Republic is going through is really a lot, and the crisis of construction, which we are going to amplify by putting off the new construction law all the time, is not going to help anyone. We have worked on the creation of a new construction law for four years, really four years of hard work with many experts from all possible areas that it touches. We have dealt with a colleague here, who I very much appreciate, that, of course, it would require a social agreement, but it is very difficult because many interests are mixed in the construction law. In the finals we came across that there are disgruntled municipalities with it, but it would need to be beneficial for the builders and so on. So finding a compromise solution will be very difficult, but I believe that the Minister and I will actually sit at one table and try to find that way. The path to this law, which you are trying to postpone, basically led through a number of compromises, otherwise it couldn't have been. In the end, however, we have achieved the goal that we have set ourselves, and the last Chamber of Deputies approved a new construction law with a clear motto that we set ourselves, that is, one stamp at one office within one year, and by that I mean a year, including appeals and judicial review. The law was signed by the President, published in the Collection of Laws, and is therefore valid. The new building law takes full effect on 1 July 2023, but some of the provisions are already effective earlier, which mainly concerns the new state construction structure. The Supreme Building Office, Specialized and Appellate Building Office and Regional Authorities were established on 1 January 2022. Unfortunately, as part of the reading, we have learned here that new concepts such as hibernation are introduced into legal terms. We're just not gonna follow the law, even if it's effective, we're gonna hibernate it because we want it different. Well, that's a nice signal for all citizens of the Czech Republic, of course, so if anyone doesn't like any law in the Czech Republic, because it doesn't suit them for any reason, then he says he's hibernating. Then I wonder what the Courts will do with the term introduced by the Chamber of Deputies here, and unfortunately, through the very mouth of Minister Šalomoun. I consider a significant acceleration and simplification of the construction process, which the new construction law will bring, to be the greatest benefit for both the citizen and the state. Thanks to it, it will really be possible to obtain a building permit within one year, including any appeal and judicial review. I was looking forward to people having their lives in their hands, not having to plan their lives, that is, building a house, a mortgage, starting a family, depending on how the official manages to get through the building process, and the authorities will finally follow the deadlines. I am incredibly concerned, as I have said here several times, that when a state fails to do something about a citizen, nothing happens, but when a citizen fails to comply with the state, he immediately gets a big fine. Of course, it is very important that the citizen himself should not handle everything himself. Today it is quite common that when you have project documentation for a family home, you must have ten to twelve pairs depending on how many organs you need to visit. Each institution concerned will give you a different opinion, and you're redoing it at home according to one or the authority that told you what, so there are even several project documentation in the finals for one family home depending on what stamp you need. You will comply with the sightseeers, you will get a stamp, but you will no longer comply with hygiene, so you will redo the project documentation according to hygiene, and this is how a lot of these wheels happen. Every stamp in the building process is expected for a month. It should be recalled here again that every stamp by having administrative rules, of course, it is an administrative decision, it is a round stamp, it is a binding position, so it is possible to review it separately against each stamp. And believe it or not, I've said it here several times, for example, trying to build student college for young people, for students, the construction is allowed for the seventh year, it's still not allowed, and the construction needed a total of 54 round stamps. Of course, in the process, the stamps are independently reviewed, so the other stamps have expired in the finals, so the cycle with the project documentation is still running. Our goal is that if a citizen submits a complete application for a building permit for a family home, he must have a permit within 30 days. This means that he can really rely on other activities that he has, the mortgage and so on, on obtaining a building permit within 30 days. Today, the builder feels like he's playing a favorite game, because before he goes to the construction office, he has to get up to the incredible 48 stamps. But this changes the new law significantly. As part of the digitization, it is being prepared - and I consider this to be the alpha of the omega and the new building law - digitization as such, the Construction Portal, which will enable these statements and opinions to be obtained electronically. A large part of them will be secured directly by the construction office itself. Authorities defending various public interests and not becoming part of the construction office will also ask the builder for a binding opinion or observations electronically through the Construction Man's Portal. If it does not submit such requests, the building authority shall request the documents from the competent authorities concerned. The point is, of course, that anyone who has the option and needs to be electronically able to handle a lot of stamps before applying for a building permit. However, those who do not have that option must have the patronage of being carried out by the construction office and of actually being able to rely on a highly qualified construction office. If the construction office requires all aspects, it will require them both from the environmental point of view, hygiene, transport connections and so on, and all these statements by the individual authorities concerned will be assessed by the construction office in a single decision. The only decision is very important, because today we are also removing the fact that we have two levels of authorisation, that is, first a territorial decision and then a building procedure. So it will now be just one building procedure with everything, one stamp, but, of course, all remedies are given, including appeals and reviews. But even for this, there must be fixed deadlines so that any builder, whether small or ordinary, or a large builder of a type of state, can rely on those deadlines. [[10.30 hours]] As regards the expression of firefighters, for example, this means for buildings that will be subject to fire surveillance, there, of course, also a building office can communicate directly with firefighters for a citizen. For us, it is absolutely essential that one project documentation, once submitted by the applicant, the builder to the construction office, all the authorities concerned meet at once in order for the health authorities to say their requirements, the firemen their demands, the conservationists their demands, the security guards their demands, and so on and so forth, and the builder gave one feedback, and not that they always tell him: Make some adjustments, he brings it adjusted, and they say: But still the firefighters have called in, you have to adjust it like this, but they haven't heard back yet... It's an endless process. Indeed, everyone needs to sit over one project documentation and give one feedback to the builder. In the finals, of course, it saves a huge amount of money especially to the builder, because when he learns all the information at once, he can, of course, reflect everything together with his designer into the project itself and, of course, thanks to integration, he can solve the whole issue effectively and quickly. Thanks to the electronization, the builder will be informed all the time about the state in which his design is, if of course it is transparent, it will all be online. This means, when he looks at the screen, he finds his project in the quotes of the building's birth number, so he sees exactly what process it is, who is currently expressing himself on the project documentation, what condition it is in, when negotiations are planned over the project documentation and so on. Even a possible appeal will be easier. We were trying to remove the ping-pong today. The way it works today is that if there is an appeal, of course it goes to a higher instance, that is, if there is a municipal construction office, the appeal is at the regional construction office, that is, at the regional office, which we know today. And what usually happens? The Regional Authority for some formal misconduct will return the first instance, which, of course, re-evaluates it and again such a ping-pong can actually run for several years. Even for a few years! And we're trying, and it's called the appeal principle, that's to remove the ping-pong. That means, if there's an appeal, it's going to go to a higher instance, a higher instance has to decide, not that it's going to go back to the first instance. Construction office just, that's the motto, it'll be one. There will be one construction office, a so-called state construction office, which, of course, will have its branches, but it will be a unified hierarchy of all officials who will be mutually representative. There is nothing worse than the current state of affairs where small construction offices, where one or two people are needed, of course everyone can get sick, can happen to everyone, but in today's form, officials at construction offices are irreplaceable. This means that if he gets sick, the building office puts a sign on the door "for the disease closed" and the builder has to wait. If it is one hierarchy of civil servants, it can be represented by anyone else in any other building office, because it will be a uniform structure, which will of course significantly facilitate orientation within citizens, because of course they will not solve whether or not the official will have the time for them, because the single hierarchy has the magic that when there are fixed deadlines, it can happen that more projects will be placed on one building office, but they may not have so many of them at another construction office, so, of course, colleagues can help each other. Even in the area of spatial planning, the procurement of territorial plans and their changes will be accelerated. Territorial plans should also be drawn up in a uniform manner, which will make their readability significantly easier for citizens. Of course, it often happens that citizens also build across the Republic, not only in one region, and what happens very often is that in each building office within different regions there are different procedures, other methodologies, which, of course, a citizen can never understand, let alone, of course, large investors who are imaginatively tapping their heads, as this is possible, that we do not have a uniform methodological environment, that even from territorial plans they cannot read in a uniform way, where there is an industrial zone, where there is a zone for the construction of family houses, for the construction of any civic amenities and so on. Thanks to the territorial development plan, which will be in the state's strategy and which will really be superior to all planning documentation, it will be able to better and more quickly stabilise the routes of key motorways and roads and, thanks to a simpler authorisation system, it will be able to prepare them more quickly for construction. This will, of course, increase the competitiveness of the Czech Republic in the field of construction. We will no longer have to wait decades for the emergence of new motorways and large structures, as is the case today. In the area of building law, we have finally, and I can say, entered the 21st century, which was also appreciated by the professional public. And once again, the new building law became the law of 2021, with the majority of several steamboats after the second place. He received 67.5 percent of all votes, which means both the people who voted in the second stage and the professional public as the nomination board highlighted the benefits of the new building law, which you are trying to postpone for a year instead of bombing the House, how to shorten the processes so that the new building law is effective as quickly as possible. When we look at the individual things, and given that I really don't want to repeat myself, a lot has been said here, but we still can't convince you that delaying the new construction law is not a good step, I will look again at the most important points. So I would start with digitalisation, and as has already been submitted, there will be no need to circumvent the authorities, really after the introduction of a new construction law related to, and of course, the elements of digitization, everything can be done from the comfort of our homes. The first major change is the form of administration itself. So far, the builder has submitted a request to which he has attached dozens of attachments, confirmations and various stamps. He will now submit a proposal through the Construction Man's Portal. The interactive form will intuitively implement it through the entire process. Project documentation and annexes can be submitted in digital form in standardised formats in order to allow their further use. The builder saves money on the purchase of expensive printed copies for individual authorities and authorities. The construction plant will now submit only one design, not up to dozens of applications, as is the case today. The process of building management will be fully digitized and all aspects of buildings from the environmental, hygiene, transport connections will be assessed by the Authority within one procedure. In one decision, they shall also take into account any observations, such as firefighters for buildings subject to fire surveillance. The basic part will consist of an integration platform with the Construction Portal, which will form a basic interface for electronic communication within the framework of the construction process and a simplified acquisition of the opinions of the owners of the technical infrastructure. It will be followed by three separate information systems. Firstly, it is a record of construction procedures, second of the register of electronic documentation and third of the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning with information on land planning documentation and other outputs from the territorial planning activity of the state, regions and municipalities. The building authorities will have a central information system that will help them through the assessment and decision-making process. In addition, the so-called workflow will be clearly set up in this system, a process that will ensure proper procedure, will allow control, and will mainly concentrate and centralise all actions that are now fragmented in the preparatory phase by territorial decision-making and building management under a single operation. For participants, their representatives and authorities, a full electronic administrative file shall be kept to replace the paper file. The possibility of electronic submission to the information system, including project documentation and other annexes, will be introduced along with it. The management monitoring service, which may relate to owned real estate, so-called notification, or, as we all know, the watchdog, will also be set up. The objective is therefore clear - a live digital system that allows and facilitates the whole process for all participants in the building process, a fundamental strengthening of eGovernment in the Czech Republic, the creation of information systems for digitization of building management and planning, software and hardware support for authorities, a comprehensive active and efficient system. [[10.40 hours]] Another important achievement of the new construction law is the so-called categorization of buildings, or category of buildings. The new construction law determines four categories. The first are small buildings, the second category are simple buildings, the third reserved buildings and then other buildings. With regard to small buildings, small buildings do not require the permission of the construction office, they can be carried out with their own assistance except for the exchange of lines and networks of technical infrastructure, which must be carried out by a construction entrepreneur. The building supervision or construction of the manager, the so-called authorized person, must be ensured. No qualification requirements for documentation processors are laid down. You're probably asking logically, what are some examples of such small structures? A small building is, for example, a building up to 40 square meters of built area and up to 5 meters with one above-ground floor, under the cellar up to a maximum of 3 meters, on the property of a family house or construction for family recreation, meeting other legal conditions. Another small building is, for example, a greenhouse up to 40 metres of built space and up to 5 metres of height without a basement or swimming pool up to 40 square meters of built area on a built-up property of a family house or construction for family recreation at a distance of at least 2 metres from the border. Other minor constructions are temporary buildings without sub-basement or facilities which serve for cultural, social and sporting purposes, portable sales facilities or stands, the location of which does not exceed thirty consecutive days. Another small construction is, for example, the normal charging point or the construction of renewable energy sources with a total installed power of up to 20 kilowatt, except for the intention authorised by another construction office. It is also maintenance work whose performance cannot adversely affect the health of persons, fire safety, stability, the appearance of the building, the environment or safety of use, and it is not maintenance work on a building that is a cultural monument. Furthermore, they are construction modifications if you do not interfere with the construction structures, the appearance of the building or the use of the building does not change, their design cannot affect the fire safety of the building and it is not a building modification that is a cultural monument. Other categories are simple buildings. Simple buildings require permission from the construction office. They can be self-helped. The building supervision or construction of the manager, the so-called authorized person, must be ensured. In addition to the designer, authorized person, the documentation can also be processed by a qualified person, that is to say, a person with the required education and practice, unless it is the documentation of buildings for housing, for family recreation, garages, constructions for residential cars and trailers, then underground buildings and buildings for advertising, which must be processed by the designer as an authorized person. The qualification requirements for processors of documentation for the construction of a garage up to 5 metres high with one above-ground floor, sub-basement to a depth of 3 metres, are not established. And again, you might be interested in examples of simple structures. These are mainly buildings for housing and family recreation, which have a maximum of two above-ground floors, one underground floor and an attic or a sheltered floor, then underground buildings up to 300 square metres of built-up areas and up to 3 metres of depth, if not technical infrastructure construction. Then they are connections to the technical infrastructure networks - these are all simple buildings - buildings for agriculture up to 30 square meters of built-up area and up to 7 meters of height with one above-ground floor, uncapped, unless they are buildings for housing animals, breeding or agricultural buildings to be used for the storage and processing of flammable substances such as dryers, warehouses of flammable liquids, warehouses of chemical fertilizers and others. Furthermore, among the simple constructions are products fulfilling the function of the construction, including the basic structures intended for them, in so far as it is not a small construction. Furthermore, it is a field treatment for water retention in the landscape up to 1.5 metres deep with an area of over 300 square metres, but not more than 20,000 square metres in an unbuilt area which does not have a common border with public roads. Third categories are so-called reserved buildings. Reserved and other buildings must always be authorised by the construction office, carried out by a construction entrepreneur. These are the buildings of the type of nuclear power plants, motorways and so on. These are really highly reserved buildings, so we can call them strategic structures of the state. A builder must always be provided, which means an authorized person, and the documentation must be processed by the designer as an authorized person. As far as examples of reserved buildings are concerned, I have already mentioned this, in addition to the construction of motorways, these are, of course, the construction of railways, the construction of aircraft, the construction of water tanks, the construction of nuclear installations, the construction of pipelines and pipelines, the production of electricity, the construction to be used for openings, the preparation and mining of bearings, as well as the treatment and refinement of minerals carried out in connection with their quarrying, and the storage sites for mining waste. Furthermore, of course, these are constructions intended for the handling of explosives. Another such chapter, which we looked at in the new construction law, is the requirements for construction. The construction requirements include such three basic requirements and this is a requirement for the definition of land, requirements for the placement of buildings and technical requirements for buildings. The construction requirements shall apply to land planning and project activities, to the authorisation, implementation, use and disposal of buildings. Everyone is obliged to comply with the requirements for construction laid down by implementing legislation or other legislation. It may also be important to mention when construction requirements will not apply. These shall not apply where three basic conditions are met at the same time: first, the safety, health or life of persons or animals, the environment, neighbouring land or buildings, second, to the extent that the serious territorial-technical or construction-technical reasons or other public interest are excluded, and third, when deciding to change the completed construction or change in the use of the building, the temporary construction or establishment of the site, the land or the site which is a cultural monument or a conservation zone, the decision on the land or building which is part of a specially protected territory or a European significant site or a bird area, the publicly beneficial construction or a publicly beneficial measure, and the decision on the definition of public land. There are exceptions, of course. This means exceptions to the construction requirements can only be allowed in individual cases from those provisions of the implementing legislation from which this authorisation allows exemptions explicitly or explicitly, and only if this does not endanger safety, health protection, life of persons, animals, the environment or neighbouring land or buildings. Another very important category of the new construction law is project documentation. We have often met with great criticism that we have all gone crazy and that we want requirements for project documentation at the family house, as if we were building, we, ordinary citizens, a nuclear power plant. That is why, of course, we have dealt with the project documentation very thoroughly. We have several types of project documentation. Firstly, it is the basic documentation for the construction permit, then it is the documentation for the construction permit of the use of the territory, documentation for the framework permit, documentation for the implementation of the construction, documentation for the removal of the construction, documentation for simple construction and documentation of the existing state of the construction, so-called pasport construction. As regards the documentation for the building permit, it contains a accompanying sheet, a summary technical report, situational drawings, documentation of buildings, urban and basic architectural and technical solutions of the projects enabling the assessment of its mechanical resistance and stability, fire safety and impact on the territory and the environment. The project documentation must be processed by the designer, attached to the design for the building permit and the building office shall assess the documentation within the management. The documentation for the authorisation of a change in the use of the territory shall include the accompanying sheet, the summary technical report, the situational drawings, the drawing documentation. Once again, the documentation must be processed by the designer, attached to the proposal for authorisation of a change in the use of the territory and the construction office examines it as part of the proceedings. What I would like to highlight here is the documentation for the implementation of the construction. It may no longer be part of the proceedings, but the builder actually provides the documentation before the construction starts, but the building office does not judge the documentation, but uses it during the inspection. [[10.50 hours]] Perhaps I would mention the documentation of a simple construction - here we have just responded to the requirements of family houses, that is, documentation on simple buildings, which are family houses and actually housing, which contains a accompanying sheet, a summary technical report, a situation drawing and drawing documentation. In addition to the designer, the so-called authorized person may also be processed by a qualified person with a higher education in the construction or architectural direction or secondary education in the construction direction with a graduation exam and at least three years of experience in building design. However, it must not, of course, be the construction of garages, underground buildings, buildings for advertising, which must be processed by an authorized person. This project documentation for simple buildings is attached to the design for the construction permit and the building office evaluates the documentation in the framework of the management. The whole process of building approval is very important. How this will work under the new construction law and what it is, instead of speeding up, we are trying to distance ourselves from the citizens. Very important, and I consider this to be absolutely essential, is that every citizen has the opportunity to consult, which is why we gave the so-called preliminary information, that is, if he sometimes issues a request, the construction office must give preliminary information, whether it is about location and so on, that means that the designer also has the basic signpost within 30 days. As regards observations, coordinated observations, a binding opinion shall, on request, be issued by the institution concerned within 30 days, in more complex cases within 60 days. What is quite the alpha of the new approach to the building authorisation process is clearly set deadlines, but we have clearly set deadlines - and now I say this with a little exaggeration - even today, but they are unenforceable. That's why it's so important that the new building bill works like a holistic mosaic, because once you take out one piece, of course, these things might not work the way they should. What is very important is that time limits are given for expressing the owner of public transport or technical infrastructure. That is what the citizens have often complained about, that when they actually ask the owners of the technical networks to comment, there are simply no deadlines and wait for it for a very long time. In addition, for technical networks, time limits are set within 30 days, in more complex cases 60 days. Then he's entering a court order of intent. This means that the applicant shall submit a form containing the general details of the application plus an annex, such as the documentation for the authorisation of the intention, a coordinated statement, a statement of binding opinions of the non-integrated authorities concerned, a statement of the owners of the public transport and technical infrastructure, a planning contract, in particular for municipalities, where concluded, the consent of the owner, the conclusion of the investigation procedure, if issued, other documents required by other legislation. If, of course, the applicant is able to secure this for himself, we have even put in there a process "issued in accelerated proceedings." If someone is so technically competent and able to communicate with individual authorities separately, he shall and shall reach a permit issued in an accelerated procedure. This means that the building office will issue the first act of proceedings where a complete application is submitted with the consent of all parties to the proceedings with the intention and intention to comply with the statutory requirements. I just need to point out here that this accelerated management does not concern projects where the EIA is. However, of course, there are builders who are not even willing or technically equipped to communicate with individual authorities separately, then they can apply and submit only the application and the building office will discuss all communication with the other authorities for them. Of course, part of the construction authorisation process is also the notification of the initiation of the procedure, no later than 7 days after the submission of the application. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, indeed, time limits are set everywhere, finally. I just hope that it doesn't change so that those deadlines are unenforceable again. Of course, the notification of the initiation of the procedure contains a way of getting acquainted with the intention, of ordering the oral hearing, of on-the-spot examination, of notification of the date of the hearing 15 days in advance. Then, of course, if this is not the case, the notification must contain certain time limits for the submission of objections, which must not be less than 15 days. What I consider very important in this process of building authorisation is the application of the objections of the parties to the proceedings and the comments made by the public. What is quite important, however, is that they can do this no later than, at the latest, at oral or public oral hearing or within a specified time limit. We have actually been concerned with the fact that bullying objections cannot then be filed in the course of the next trial. Now I'm going to say it a little bit popular, if there's a rare animal, it's there at the start of the procedure, and it's definitely weird that it doesn't get there until it's in the course of the procedure when it wasn't there at the beginning. Assessment of the design by the construction office. In the proceedings, the building authority shall assess whether the intention complies with the planning documentation, the requirements of the construction law, its implementing rules and the requirements of other laws protecting the public interests concerned. As part of the next process, the building authority's decision on the proposal is made. Authorisation for simple constructions within 30 days of the opening of the procedure, the period before which they expire may be extended by 30 days, i.e. if there are any serious problems, the period may be extended by 60 days. The permit for other buildings then within 60 days, i.e., for larger buildings since the initiation of the procedure, the time limits may be postponed again by 30 days. If the authorisation includes the EIA, then there is a period of 120 days with the possibility to extend by 60 days. Framework permit only in the case of nuclear installations or if the permit of intent is the competent other construction office, such as defence, inland or Ministry of Justice, that is, these are mostly constructions in certain modes. The authorisation shall be valid for 2 years, up to 5 years after the acquisition of legal power. In the case of start-up, the period of validity of the permit shall be extended to 10 years. The authorisation may be renewed for another 2 years. The expiry of the authorisation shall be in the event that the implementation of the project has not started within 2 years of the entry into force of the authorisation and the authorisation has not been extended, or the date on which the construction office receives the notice of the construction worker's withdrawal from the execution of the project. Then, of course, the appeal procedure begins. This process starts with the type of permit for simple constructions and for other constructions and for the framework permit. This is a special regulation different from the rule of law, based precisely on the appeal principle that I was talking about. This means that if the Board of Appeal concludes that the contested decision is contrary to the law or that it is incorrect, the contested decision or part thereof will be amended. That means he doesn't return the first instance, but he has to change himself. Then we have a management on the use of the building. It's a housewarming decision. The decision is attached only where the law requires it. The application for the approval decision basically contains the same annexes as today, or, of course, when it concerns documentation of the actual execution of the construction with indication of the deviations, if there is an insignificant deviation from the verified documentation, it must, of course, have an indication of the location of the defining point of the construction, in the case of the building, address point data, geometric plan and so on. The design assessment shall be carried out by the construction office and carried out as a final inspection and shall assess whether the construction is in accordance with the relevant authorisation. The building authority shall, within 15 days of the date of the final inspection or within 15 days of the submission of the application, issue the building decision as the first act of proceedings. Before completion of the construction, the construction office may permit the change of intent before completion, permit the premature use of the construction, permit or order the test operation, provided that this condition has been laid down in the permit. Then, of course, we have a recoupation, that is, after discussion in the co-admission procedure, the construction office can change the permitted use of the building. A very important part of the new building law - and I deliberately leave out the things that we have already discussed here in the first and second reading - is a judicial review. Perhaps even this judicial review would be worth mentioning a little more detail here, because the judicial review ensures the protection of the public subjective rights of individuals, builders, owners and associations for environmental protection. [[11.00 hours]] Recodification brings changes in two areas, i.e. territorial review of planning documentation and judicial review of building permits. The introduction of special jurisdiction of regional courts for so-called reserved buildings, and the Regional Court in Ostrava was elected. The judicial review of the planning documentation will take the form of a measure of a general nature. The exclusion of guarantees from the territorial planning documentation with retroactive effects always comes first to the legal power of the judgment. This is very important, because, of course, in practice, many lawyers have dealt with how to actually behave in this environment, if it is somehow much backwards and so on and, of course, according to the planning documentation, constructions have been carried out. The judicial review of the decisions of the building offices is reinforced by the appeal elements. The Administrative Court will not only be able to repeal the contested administrative decision but also, where appropriate, to amend the contested administrative decision without the need to refer the case back to the building office for further proceedings. The appeal principle will be applied by the court facultyly and will only be in proceedings before the regional court as an administrative court. What we are introducing as new and what the construction workers really very much acknowledge is that the builder will always be a party to the lawsuit against the decision of the building office. Furthermore, we introduce the inadmissibility of the plea on account of concentration. An objection which the applicant has not applied in the proceedings for the permit of the construction, as much as he could have done, will be inadmissible in the action against the decision of the building authority. The applicant should therefore comply with the obligation to object already in administrative proceedings, in which he sees infringement of his public subjective rights. The next thing is to dismiss the lawsuit on grounds of abuse. Probably all of us have read or heard about how we can really exploit the law. This means that if the applicant brings an action only in order to abuse his right to bring an action, that action will be rejected. Last but not least, what I also consider to be very important, especially for public bodies, regions, cities, municipalities, is the duty of the court to discuss all the points of law. There's nothing worse than when it happened that there was just - I don't know - ten objections, the second court said something was wrong, and he returned it without commenting on the other eight, because then the city didn't know how the court would react to the other eight objections. So I also consider this to be quite important, the duty of the court to discuss all the points of law. It is very similar to the Act on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water, Energy Infrastructure and Electronic Communications Infrastructure, which proposes to anchor the obligation of the Administrative Court to discuss and deal with all objections. The building office will thus be able to take into account any objections raised before the administrative court in the context of the renegotiation. Another category that I would really like to open, because we are already media witnessing that, of course, their rights are claimed mainly by self-government, is the area of spatial planning. It needs to be said how it is anchored today, i.e. in the new law of construction, but here I say, frankly, that's what I expected from the new government. Here I quite legitimately admit that we did not make it to the very end, that, of course, the cities had a lot of comments and objections, and here I expected that the new government would follow up, not that it would return the building bill a year ago, but that it would try to discuss the urban planning with the cities in detail. So far, it is in the new construction law that spatial planning creates the prerequisites for sustainable development of the territory, coordinates plans for the use of the territory, defines areas and corridors for public utility buildings and measures, protects the unbuilt territory, or free landscape, and sets out the conditions for construction and use of the territory. At the same time, it will be processed within the planning documentation, as well as an evaluation of the impact on sustainable development of the territory, including environmental impact and on the Natura 2000 system. A uniform standard of planning documentation will be introduced uniting their formal aspect to be better readable for both the public and investors. The obligation is always for follow-up documentation and for decision-making authorisation. It will not be necessary to wait for the follow-up documentation to be issued, it will be able to decide directly on the basis of the higher one. As before, procurement is a performance of state administration, but the elected authority, or self-government, always decides. It will also accelerate the process of obtaining documentation, in particular by conducting joint negotiations with the institutions concerned at one time, and the public consultation and the adjustment of the documentation will not be after each of these negotiations. The authorities concerned will continue to apply the opinions that the customer will have to respect, except where otherwise stated in the conflict settlement agreement. Everyone will be able to make comments on the draft, which will have to be dealt with in writing in the justification submitted to the authorising authority. Substantially identical comments will be settled together. All types of planning documents may be challenged by an action. A system of monitoring changes will be in place, that is to say, anyone who registers in the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning will receive free electronic information on documentation or its changes in the permitted territory. This is, of course, very good for citizens who have had to keep an eye on the official record. This way, if they register at the National Geoportal, they'll be able to get the information themselves. Furthermore, there will be a territorial development plan setting out the state's strategic intentions. A really top document, which will actually incorporate into the territory of the state's strategic construction, that is, of course, will define areas and corridors for state-wide important buildings, namely transport and technical infrastructure, and the over-regional territorial system of ecological stability. It should be taken by the highest construction office, but I assume that after a new one, if you actually approve today of deferment of such good things that are in the new construction law, it will probably be done by the Ministry of Regional Development and will be issued by the government by measures of a general nature. The principles of territorial development lay down the concept of development and protection of regional values, adopt solutions from the territorial development plan, define areas and corridors of excessive importance, in particular transport and technical infrastructure and so on. Of course, there is not much to change, the principles of territorial development are the same, once again it is a measure of a general nature. What I would like to highlight here is the regulatory plan itself. The regulatory plan should certainly be a great music of the future. It is already based on the current adjustment and is taken either in an area defined and assessed in terms of impact in the zoning plan or in another area, provided that it does not alter its character. Therefore, this plan no longer requires an assessment of the SEA. The regulatory plan shall be drawn up by the local planning authority, the municipality with extended competence or the municipal authority when meeting the qualification requirements, the so-called representative of the acquiring authority, and shall issue the municipal council with measures of a general nature. Other spatial planning instruments are therefore primarily the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning, all outputs from the land planning activity will be published, including proposals for discussion, notification of discussion, issue of land planning documentation, land planning documents and other spatial planning tools. Furthermore, within the area planning, there are so-called territorialanalytical documents, which include the detection and evaluation of the state of development of the territory. Their conclusion is to identify problems for the solution in the planning documentation. In addition to the land-use planning documents, there are also territorial studies that suggest possible solutions to selected problems in specific territories, i.e. solutions to a particular territory comprehensively, or just for example transport solutions or network management. Then, of course, there are new things that we have put into the new construction law on the basis of appeals from the mayors and individual municipalities, and that is the definition of the planning contract. The municipality may make it conditional on the conclusion of a planning contract in the zoning plan or regulatory plan for decision-making on changes in the territory. It shall be closed between the construction worker and the municipality or the region or the owner of the public infrastructure. Another person may be a participant, it may also be closed at the initiative of the municipality or construction worker. Of course, last but not least, there are compensations in the new building law for changes in territory. This is the equivalent of today's compensation for change in the territory when the construction closure or cancellation of the pauseability of the land is caused to the owner of the damage. The replacement does not belong when the owner was able to build and, within five years of his inactivity, did not start the steps towards the implementation of the proposal. [[11.10 hours]] At the very end, I'd probably touch on institutional changes. I understand, of course, that this was the very center of what divided the Chamber of Deputies, but again I would like to say what was actually the aim of the institutional change. That is, the aim of this - because once again it must be recalled that the construction law is in the competence of the State and the State has put it under delegation, in the performance of individual municipalities or individual municipalities - has decided under the weight of some arguments that it will continue to pursue this activity itself. In particular, the following reasons led him to do so: firstly, to ensure a uniform and predictable application, that is to say, the interpretation of public building law by unifying a fragmented system of construction offices. Secondly, to improve the possibility of methodological management of civil servants by central government bodies, including the core public interests. Thirdly, to limit the problem of the systemic bias of the building authorities. Fourth, fundamentally strengthen the conditions for staff stability, career growth and personal development and the proper performance of the activities of civil servants. Fifth, to ensure the sharing of professional personnel capacities and resources, such as the possibility of temporarily assigning an expert specialising in, for example, the authorisation of a type of complex project to the relevant workplace. Sixth, more flexible use of material equipment within one organization. Seventhly, it will allow more efficient implementation of financially demanding actions, thus eliminating today's problem of insufficient funding for some of the activities of the building office. This is where I mean mostly black buildings. Black buildings - already mentioned by my colleague - are indeed a huge problem, and we need to realise that. One of the reasons why we wanted a unified state structure is that black buildings and their removal into their shoulders take over the state. What's the problem today? If the construction office identifies the black building, it must be removed by the municipality with extended scope. It has to go through their council, but how many times these buildings are not located in the territory of the ORP itself, but, of course, in another village within the ORP itself. It is very difficult to convince the representatives that the construction in another area of the ORP will be removed for the money of some specific ORP. The municipality complains that they don't just have the money to do it, but they don't even have the personnel security, because of course they have to enforce the resources of the owner of the property that he built black. The state has both, the state has both finance and, of course, personnel security to ensure that black buildings can finally be dealt with. In fact, I think that in the 21st century, we should not turn a blind eye to the fact that the Czech Republic is going black. Of course, this institutional change has also led to specialized professional workstations for line and energy buildings requiring specialization, but here I am very glad that this may not be the case for those dedicated buildings. In conclusion, I would just like to mention what has already been said several times, why we actually constantly object to this press. It is important to recall what has already taken effect. The Construction Act shall take effect on 1 July 2023, with the exception of the provisions which take effect on the day following the date of its publication, that is to say from 30 July 2021. It is in particular § 36, which means the definition of the territory in order to ensure the defence and security of the State. This means that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior define measures of the general nature of the territory in whose interest it ensures the defence and security of the State. I think that's a very important paragraph. Section 313 - Territorial Development Plan. The territorial development plan issued under existing legislation is considered as a territorial development plan under the new construction law. If, on the date of the entry into force of this Act, the Supreme Building Office - unfortunately, the Ministry of Regional Development - fails to examine the intentions of the transport and technical infrastructure defined in the principles of territorial development. Section 322, par. 1 and 3 - validity of the land-use planning documentation approved before 1. 1. 2007. Territorial planning documentation of the settlement unit or zone, the municipal zoning plan, the so-called old zoning plans and the regulatory plan, approved before date 1. 1. It shall expire on the date of entry into force of the new planning dossier, which shall replace it, but not later than 31 December 2028. This provision concerns, in particular, the Metropolitan Plan of Prague, which, of course, has not been able to live for many years. § 324 - non-use of certain parts of the planning documentation. Parts of planning documentation issued pursuant to Act No. 183/2006 Sb., which cannot be part of it under the new construction law, shall not be used and shall be deleted from this documentation at the earliest amendment. Article 326 (1) (c) of CRR This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be As of 30. 7. 2021 shall cease to be effective for building closures declared or issued pursuant to Act No. 50/1976, the so-called old construction law, in order to prevent, impede or prevent future use of the territory according to the upcoming planning documentation. According to my information, the Ministry has already issued a methodological communication on this provision. Furthermore, it became effective on 1 January 2022, but unfortunately the new government does not comply with the law's effectiveness and does not fulfil it. 1 January 2022, § 15 to 18 - state construction administration. The Supreme Building Office, the specialised and appellate building office and the regional construction offices, which form a system of authorities of the State Building Administration and which are administrative offices, is hereby established. Article 3 (1) (a) (ii) of CRR 1 and 7 - transitional provisions for offices and officials. Section 313, par. 1 and 2 - terms and conditions for the award of invitations to tender to the Director of the Specialised and Appeals Office and to the Director of each regional authority. Article 3 (1) (a) of CRR 1 - transfer of jurisdiction to the Supreme Building Office. And what should be waiting for us in the next few days? I assume that the Minister will confirm that this is the case, that they are issuing and preparing implementing decrees for the new construction law, although concentrated only on dedicated constructions. It is therefore necessary to prepare a building order, the contents of which will be contained in the annexes to the individual application forms, i.e. a form for the construction authorisation, for the submission of an application for comments or a binding opinion of the institution concerned to the owner of the public transport and technical infrastructure, etc., a document setting out the scope and content of the prescribed types of documentation and project documentation, a decree laying down the requirements for the construction of the land, the requirements for the installation of buildings and technical requirements for the construction, a decree laying down the operating conditions for the operation of the Portal of the builder and other important components of the digitised construction process, a decree determining, for example, the content of the territorial documents or the assignment of the zoning plan, not least the decree on the National Geoportal of the spatial planning and uniform standard of the territorial plans and other documentation. So much for me to say again here what you want to delay with your votes today. In my opinion, it is actually possible to prepare a substantive amendment, but I think putting off the new construction law is a mistake. It is accompanied by legal uncertainties, which even the Prime Minister has not been able to answer, and I believe that these questions will constantly fall, that we can get into a situation where the amendment will not be, but it will be postponed, and there is no respect for the amendment law. There are just so many "but" that I would really like to call on the Chamber of Deputies, even under the weight of wanting to push the Czech Republic a little further, so that we can be competitive so that we can actually include the imaginary 2 and not try to reverse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u9	I thank the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee and also the Chair of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee. At this point, I have two applications with priority rights, but before I give my word, I'm willing to read my apologies. I have here an apology from Mrs. Anna Hubáčková, Madam Secretary of the Environment, for health reasons today. Then I have an apology from Home Secretary Vít Rakušan, from 9.45 to 10.45 for work reasons. Then there is Mr Jaroslav Bžoch's apology, today between 12.15 and 13.30 for work reasons. Then there is an apology from the Minister for Legislation and Prime Minister Michal Šalomoun's meeting of the Legislative Council, today from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons. Then there is an apology from Mr Jan Volný, between 10 and 14 o'clock for work reasons. At the same time, I was here to apologize to the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová, who apologizes from 10.30 to 11.30. Those were all excuses. [[11.20 hours]] And as I have announced, the first application with priority rights - Vice-President of the Government for Digitalization and Minister of Regional Development Ivan Bartoš. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u10	Thank you so much for the floor. I will try to be short because I do not want to delay the discussion of such a simple drop-off amendment. However, I see one thing in this as beneficial. If we repeat this exercise every time we talk about the construction law and talk about the things that are already in the construction law today, most of us here will actually become experts on individual parts of the construction law, because Mrs Dostálová has passed quite a lot of those areas. Just quickly here to Mr Kolovratník, through Madam President, black buildings - the law, as you have interpreted it, even as proposed, is heading for the future, is not retroactive to black buildings that we have been dealing with here for a long time. So if we wanted to apply it to some black buildings, the timeline for the finalization of a material amendment, that's the time you think we're losing, so the existing black buildings aren't affected by this delay in any way, because the ergo hammer wouldn't be considered anyway. The current legislative regulation, of course, makes it possible to remove black buildings. Maybe Minister Kupka will talk about it afterwards, he even has experience on how to proceed. It's not easy. The building office will order the official removal of the black building. The problem is not even in the removal, but with the enforcement of decisions by municipalities that provide the activities of construction offices. There's the real problem. Minister Dostálová, excuse me, Mrs Dostálová - the custom is an iron shirt - it is a big change, I agree with you, but you represented a change that should be coming on, and every change that is coming on has some phases, gradual running, applications, methodological activity, digitalisation, which will be tested at the office, is then launched throughout the Czech Republic. This is a perfectly rational approach, advantageous for all citizens. So I think, on the other hand, it makes sense to me to factor in and move in. Partial delay and gradual start-up of the amendment to the Construction Act is necessary to eliminate the cessation of construction proceedings for up to a few months, which I think, on the contrary, is a risk that is not acceptable to undergo. Stamps - co-ordinated binding opinions of the authorities concerned in the context of an enlarged community are already common today, so this is not entirely new. Of course, the number of stamps depends on the type of construction and the territory in which the construction is placed. Thus, the family house, which is often used as an example, is then illustrated by the number of stamps on a more complex building, perhaps in some construction, does not always sit on each other. The establishment of the NSÚ and the regional construction offices - they arose, Mrs Dostálová, and for you in paper. Nothing was prepared for the establishment of the NSÚ at regional offices, except that the law as we wanted it, before the end of this year actually went the way, where there would not even have been individual parts, so there was nothing prepared here, nor there was money prepared. Even the Ministry of Finance, under the leadership of then Minister Schillerová, pointed out this. There was no budget, there were no employees, there were no activities. But from the logic of the matter, if I have a substantive amendment that does not implement this system, I would find it quite strange to move in this direction as well when the decision that had already been made in opposition when we were preparing a comprehensive amendment was that we do not want the creation of a super-office. Otherwise, the first proposal - if there were such consistency in the first proposal presented by the Ministry of Regional Development in the previous period, there were 8 000 comments. I know we're updating a smaller part of a material novel, we've got hundreds of them up there. Built-in portal - ready for 1. 7. 2023 - completely unrealistic from the point of view of the readiness of implementation, as we took it over, of the individual projects. Single driving doesn't always have to be faster. The location of the building plays an important role. We want to work to ensure that this is actually dealt with by regulatory plans and thus simplifying the construction process. I am glad that at the end of your speech you responded to the zoning plan and to the regulations, because if we solve everything in the territory, the construction process as such will not be such a difficult process, it will be without major inputs, because everything will be defined in the regulatory plan. That's what MMR supports. In the previous proposal, this has indeed been ignored, we have talked about it, we have had several seminars on this subject still as an opposition, and at this point things are already under way regarding spatial planning. You were talking about the fire department statement. There is no change in the new construction law. Fire department's unintegrated. It was never meant to be part of the construction office, and I don't think I want to discuss it like this. But some things to sum up: territorial planning development is contained in the existing law, there are regulatory plans. The town of Olomouc already has about hundreds. Of course, the amendment you presented in the last parliamentary term improved some things, but it was said here in the debate that a lot of things are not now and will not be because we are voting here to delay the entry into force of certain parts of the law. Yes, it is not perfected in it, but also preliminary information, it is called today's planning information § 21 of the construction law, it can be requested at the edge of the office of zoning, the customer plays a role in it. So these things are already anchored in the law. To me, a large part of the presentation seemed like this wouldn't actually happen, it wouldn't happen until the original amendment or the recodification of the construction law was effective, but these things are already in the construction law, even if there are some changes or improvements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u11	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Martin Kupka, the Minister of Transport, is the next one who is registered with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only allowing myself a brief response to those black buildings, whose removal really poses a problem in the territory, but since I have my own personal experience at my disposal, I will, on the one hand, allow myself to set some inaccuracies straight. This obligation is not only for municipalities with extended scope, but it is in fact for all municipalities which have in their own office a construction office with its respective administrative district. In such a case, the black building must be removed in cooperation with the council and with the management of the municipality. The removal is complicated, but it is complicated because it is simply really - and it doesn't matter whether it takes place at the level of the community, the region, or the state - it creates a load which must be subsequently enforced after who caused the black construction. No one's gonna miss this trouble, no matter what the law says. And what is essential, and all the experience that has been shown so far, is the real determination to solve the problem and the acceptable methodology, or method, to recover the removal of the black building. So far it has been shown that successful were those who armed themselves with the help of the executor to enforce the removal of the black building. And if anything would help, it would really help, so apart from the methodology, it is also financial support for the removal act itself. These are specific tools, specific help. At the moment when we have it beautifully treated in the law, or better than it is today, and it will not be a will to remove, the process will always be so complicated that it will cause certain complications for any official, and it will be a thing that will be a burden to him to a large extent. And the recipe that I mention is really subsequently to find both financial support for those who will remove, and especially to find the right and effective procedure with a clear recommendation. The new law did not actually solve this perfectly, because it would have to use, as I mention, other tools and other methods to make it really effective. [[11.30 hours]] The second point concerns the real reason for delaying efficacy. Here in the speech by President Dostálová, it was said that it was a matter of ensuring - and here we agree - that the building procedure should be measured as quickly as possible to people as the state is measured. Let me just stress that the first step to this was taken by the opposition of the time, members of the Civil Democratic Party, who were in Act No. 416, on speeding up line constructions, they proposed and subsequently pushed through the Chamber of Deputies the so-called "ficture of consent." This was the first significant step towards the same balanced position between citizens and the state in this regard. I completely agree with the righteous uproar that in the Czech Republic it is measured in this direction by another metro. However, I just want to point out here that those who have actually done something about this can also really fight for it now, but it is hard for me to hear it from President Dostálová when the facts say that in 2014 the average length of the entire construction authorisation process was 120 days and after eight years of government YES 246. We can question the Doing Business methodology and, in some cases, the data may not be perfectly telling, but the relative value in this respect fits, simply the fatal extension of the authorisation process from 120 to 246 days, i.e. more than twice the extension, has unfortunately occurred over the past eight years. Then it is really hard to hear that the petitioner of the original proposal really had an honest effort to ensure equal and comparable conditions for the people and the state. In fact, today it seems like a very calculated statement with a remarkable amount of hypocrisy. Let us agree, however, that the Czech Republic is intended to be significantly more supportive of people in this direction in administrative processes and will indeed guarantee the fulfilment of deadlines and the same conditions. And I dare say that even the substantive change that we're going to be talking about in the coming months will meet these very essential conditions. And I'm going to mention one more important thing that has to do with the delay. The translator then lived in the belief that if something belonged to the state, it would go automatically excellent, that it would solve the problems. Well, reality tells us otherwise. The real situation of administrative processes in central government bodies, or ministries, is often the same or even worse than at regional and municipal offices. If words have been said here that we need to ensure the most effective use of personnel and material equipment, then I dare but only provide a real picture of the performance of administrative activities in the Czech Republic. The equipment of municipal and regional authorities in terms of both material and personnel is not only comparable, but often especially in the field of material equipment better and officials get to the necessary computer equipment that really helps to avoid wasting time and driving unnecessaryly. When we were talking about heading under the original law, or we were supposed to, to create a new structure for regional civil service construction agencies, a hierarchy that was designed by an independent institution directly dependent on the state, what would that mean at that moment? What would be the guarantee of better personnel use and faster procedures? Well, examples say, for example, that it took four months, instead of being in 14 days or 30 days, to make a simple decision on the designation of an office to be systemically biased, unnamed body of the central administration, at a time when all processes had to be accelerated here in the Chamber of Deputies, how to focus on faster implementation of key transport structures. That's what reality was like under the dome of the state. Please, let's not succumb to the delusion that if something is right under the state, it will run beautifully like butter. Reality does not fully respond to this, which is why we are trying to prevent the emergence of the new structure, because not only would it not ensure a better exercise of building law, but very probably, and in this respect the Ministry of the Interior has also made a clear statement, it would threaten, given the very lack of newly recruited officials, those who would not have passed under the new regional authorities, the failure of activity on the part of building authorisation and the paralysis of construction activity. This is the real cause of the proposal that we are discussing here today, to prevent the collapse of the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic and to resolve it in a way, and now I want to emphasise a fundamental principle on which it will simply be possible to find a consensus that will have to be a compromise to some extent, but will not threaten by crippling the construction activity, but at the end it will be elementary agreement across the Chamber of Deputies that this solution would be bearable, that it will not involve a disruption of public administration in the Czech Republic, a revolutionary step that no one knows exactly how it will turn out, no one is able to project exactly. And those who are paid for it at the Home Office are beating the alarm that it could end in a fiasco. These are the real reasons that lead to the necessary step of delaying efficiency, and at the same time, and that is a promise, which is no longer just a promise, there is actually an inter-resorative reminder procedure for material adjustment to ensure the necessary elemental agreement, and a solution that will answer serious questions of building proceedings in the Czech Republic. There's a consensus, we need to move on. It is not possible to put this to ice, and that is why the current government is proceeding in this direction as far as possible, quickly to have on the table a material about which we will have a debate, at the end of which, I firmly hope, this year will be a basic agreement in the Chamber of Deputies and it will be possible to follow all these steps: the digitization of the building process, all processes so as not to result in threats and delays, but in order to be a law that actually helps investment activities in the Czech Republic, it will help transport structures, but it will also help all small builders, which we are also interested in, that the Czech public administration does not throw sticks at people's feet in this direction, but opens opportunities for them under clearly defined and transparent conditions. I am calling for this, and I very much ask the relevant professional opponent to really have factual arguments on this table and a joint effort to reach a solution that will be acceptable and effective in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u13	Thank you, Minister. Your speech raised one factual point, and then the rapporteur, Mrs Klára Dostálová, reports with the priority right, so Mrs Berenika Peštová is registered with the factual point. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I would like to respond to the Minister of Transport, who spoke beautifully here, which he has always been good at. In any case, you said here that the amendment to the Construction Act is going through an interdepartmental commentary procedure. She is already after the interdepartmental commentary because the Minister for Regional Development mentioned it here and he himself stated that she returned with an incredible number of critical comments. He said hundreds. [[Minister Kupka responds from the bench.]] So I don't think it was hundreds, maybe it got into the same trouble as we did with the Waste Act when we put it in interdepartmental commentary proceedings, and actually that set of laws came back with almost 3,000 fundamental comments. [[11.40 hours]] So I don't believe if it was hundreds, maybe a thousand, maybe even more that you're able to deal with the order of one month. It's not real, it's absolutely not real! So if you're telling us something here, I'd like to know the schedule you set. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u15	Thank you for keeping time. The rapporteur, the Chair of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Klára Dostálová, is now registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I wanted to make a factual point at first, but then I changed my mind, because in the meantime Minister Kupka also spoke, so I would like to respond to both of the speeches, both Minister Bartoš and Minister Kupka, by your means, Madam President. I'm so glad the Minister said I introduced what was in the proposal. Well, yes, I represented it on purpose because I responded here to the reminder that, of course, we have to stick to the point at hand, and I wanted to draw attention to what is good there and what you are trying to postpone for a year. So, obviously, logically, I reacted, which is why I don't understand when you're actually going to say in your words: Yes, that's good, that's good, but we're talking about a one-year delay here. It's good, and we're putting it off for a year, so I don't understand anymore. As far as the black buildings are concerned - no, I'll go back to what Bartoš said, the oerpé. Of course, Minister, I'm so glad you said that here! Yes, that's one of the options - if it integrates at ORP level in the new novel, I'll give you a hand, that's exactly it. I agree that there were two versions, there were two versions for us, as well as government versions counted on integration at ORP level. If your version goes in this direction, it's also a step in the right direction, even if we don't completely solve all the points as a unified methodology and representativeness of officials and solve systemic bias, but it's definitely a step in the right direction. So if our negotiations are conducted at the amendment by integrating at ORP level, great. Then you were talking about the opposition proposal. I would just like to say that the opposition proposal, which was tabled in the last term, could not be discussed because you did not make a change law. It just wasn't possible. This could not have been approved at all because other component laws would not have been amended to do so. Well, then, Minister, since you've repeated it to the microphone several times before, and I'm not starting at the very first good one, but it's probably the fifth time today, so I'm gonna take the liberty of reacting to you saying that I didn't hand over the ready digitization. Well, I'd like to give you the Minister's decision here, me, of 19. 10. 2021, where you have the whole organizational structure, including setting aside all the things that individual people have to do at the Ministry of Regional Development. [[He's showing the document.]] I'm sure it wasn't one person, as you said in the media somewhere, but it was a whole system of people, because, of course, all the departments of the Ministry involved in digitalization must work together. The fact that, of course, the ICT unit, that means in the section, you called off the Deputy Minister, one lady left you, that's not my problem anymore. Of course, the fact that you can't keep quality people is your problem. But I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed for you and your digital advice - even though, of course, we've been working very closely with the government's board, with Mr Dzurilla and so on - to make things work. So please don't say it, it's not true, here's the secretary's decision. And now for the words of my colleague Kupka. Minister, execution of the decision - I had to smile at you when you said that basically everyone was fulfilling it. We met constantly with the fact that the municipalities bombed us, that they didn't have the money for it, so we made a grant title for the execution of the decision. I put $60 million in there. And can you guess how many applications came in? For $2 million. The people don't want to solve black buildings, they don't, because it just makes trouble for them. And if we're not able to admit that, we're not going anywhere. The state really won't have mercy on the black building. And believe me, on the one hand, you're lashing out to protect anything, any public interest, and then you have one black building, which, of course, happens on the territory of the Czech Republic. Regarding the fiction of consent, since we are already pouring pure wine here, of course we proposed the fiction of consent in cooperation with Martin Kolovratník, of course. It processed the MMR because it went into the construction law. Just so we're clear. And I'm just saying too much that you don't go down a multi-year path that if we deintegrate, everything will go through a fictional consent because it'll all end up in court. It is not possible to rely here on the fact that the fiction of consent will automatically be at the end of the deadline. After all, our efforts in the new law were to eliminate the fiction of consent, so that the authorities concerned had to agree on the documentation, what and how it would be. And as far as I'm concerned, and here the Minister is right - and I'm saying this completely frankly, on a microphone - yes, the road to hell is paved with good intentions, that's often said. Indeed, although in good faith, Minister Šlechtová has made an amendment to the construction law, paradoxically, an additional stamp has succeeded and we have actually gotten, and I agree from 120 days to 246. We have fought a great deal here about the fact that the stamp of territorial planning, or Section 96b, has to be removed in some way. But how to remove it? That's why we didn't go through any more novels and we went through a whole new construction law, because any amendment would only cause more and more problems. That's where the green meadow had to be and start building it all over again. What was that all about? In the novel, it was about the merger of building and territorial proceedings. But if you merge this together, there had to be somebody, and that was decided at the Prime Minister's level at the time, in order to say who would actually say that the intention was eligible for the territory as such. Back then, the political will was tilted to the fact that it would be the zoning authorities, which caused crazy delays, because, of course, they weren't equipped for this. I just wanted so much, Minister. Still - you really are a master of demagogy. I recognize your rhetorical abilities, but on the other hand, the highest construction structure or the state construction structure had major objectives, and that is representativeness. If you leave it to the municipalities, even if you have the availability formula, how many jobs they do and so on, then still, when a lot of projects come in, those officials won't be deputized. If it's in the municipalities, it means it's in the delegation, it just doesn't work. But I understand that you want at least three or four of them to be there, so that the one-headed and two-headed construction agencies aren't. Another objective was a uniform methodology. We discussed this on the Public Administration Committee during the last parliamentary term, when the Minister and I had replaced the seats, he was chairman of the committee, I was the minister, where he himself was upset, as it is possible that in each region he allowed himself otherwise. We explained to him that this is, of course, due to the administrative order, the hierarchy, how binding the methodologies are, are not binding and so on, and we agreed that it is not quite okay. That is why we have proposed a uniform structure for the construction offices. If you leave it in a delegated capacity, it will again be unenforceable. You will, of course, methodically as an MMR give to the regions, the regions towards the municipalities, and it will happen to you that it will be dealt with methodically by any other way. You call it a disruption, I call it depoliticizing the government from the government. That's the difference we miss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u17	Thank you. Your entry brought up two factual points. Before I give the floor to the Minister for Regional Development, I would like to read the apology of Mr Marek Ženíšek, today between 12.30 and 13.30 for work reasons. Thank you. The first factual point is the Minister for Regional Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u18	Thank you. I'll be short. I would just like to clarify, from the DSŘ, from the digitization of the building process, did not leave one lady, but the only lady who was alone in the department of digitization of the building procedure and was to manage four contracts worth about CZK 600 million. There is much less to Mrs Peštová, through Madam President, of the essential comments. I have mentioned all the comments sent, i.e. recommendations. A lot of them are very inspirational, only 200 I thought were from the Chamber of Commerce. For the fact that this is an amendment to the construction law, from the point of view of the last ten years and previous amendments it is basically not enough and the timetable is by the end of June of this year, so it is two months to settle those comments. [[11.50 hours]] And just about the introduction: I really wanted to mention that a lot of the things that Mrs Dostálová spoke about here are being dealt with in the current law at the moment. Something's changing, something hasn't changed in the recodification, so to talk about the whole plajade, that we're losing this and it becomes unsolvable, I won't use those strong words, but it's also not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u19	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. And the next person to come forward with a point of fact is Minister of Transport Martin Kupka. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u20	A brief return to the black buildings: I really have experience with this and I know what it is, I have experienced it with my own skin and I have led one of the black buildings to real removal. I know what obstacles the municipalities have there, how big the problem is, and I don't understand how you can be sure that if it is in the hands of purely civil servants, that the situation will change 180 degrees. It will not change unless there is a will that is crucial to this. Even today, the mayors had the opportunity, like their construction offices, to take that step. They had it more complicated, but if there was a will, they could have just gotten to it. Of course, they had to overcome countless obstacles, but they were not anchored in the construction law, but in other related legislation, and if we do not remove this, we will still be fighting the same problem. You're talking about the key being to ensure representativeness. Well, there was a problem with representativeship right when the new stamps came up, and the officials just weren't there to handle it. So what you're saying is, we've created a problem, and now all of a sudden, we have a great argument to dig it from scratch, because suddenly there's a huge rush at some offices, so we need representativeness, and so, as a key principle, we're going to ensure representativeness. The view from practice, from reality - in many cases the representativeness is complicated in itself, because it is not easy enough to replace an official from one end of the Republic with an official from the other end of the Republic for the knowledge of that territory. Please, let us proceed with real knowledge of the issue, knowing that each building is growing in a specific, quite specific place. And what is to be brought about by the digitalisation of the building process is, for example, to ensure continuity of decision-making, not to differ the individual views of officials in various areas of the state administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u21	Thank you so much for keeping time. We have three further factual comments, first Mrs Berenika Peštová, and Klára Dostálová and Minister Ivan Bartoš will be prepared. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u22	I would like to respond first to the Minister of Regional Development, Minister Bartoš. So I didn't understand how many of these fundamental comments came. Did you mention that there were 200 essential comments from the Chamber of Commerce or just 200 essential comments? Recommending comments, they don't interest me, because the recommendations are only recommendations and you don't have to follow it. That's where the big points are, that's the gros I've been filming here. And as far as representativeness is concerned, I would respond to the Minister of Transport again. You're saying they're not familiar with the environment. You know, when you're a builder, you get some background, and, of course, the builders are able to get a quick look at the materials. Yes, then when we're talking about territory, maybe it's about something else, but there are zoning plans again, so I think there may be some representativeness there, maybe it's not as big a problem as you say that an official from one ORP isn't able to represent an official from another ORP. I don't think that's true, okay? I say, if you can read maps, and I think those officials should be able to read maps, first of all, and secondly, they should be able to read project documentation. If he can't do it, the clerk shouldn't be there! [[In an elevated voice.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u23	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. The rapporteur and the Chair of the Public Administration Committee, Mrs Klára Dostálová, are the others who make a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u24	Thank you. I'm really just a quick response to my colleague Kupka. Firstly, hopefully we will not argue that the state certainly has more financial possibilities and more personnel capacity than the municipalities, so the black buildings would probably not be such a terrible problem for the state, but I agree that legislation and so on is needed. And like I said, you really are the master of demagogy in these things. Here I never said that we made the new construction law conditional on putting §96b in, you deduced it in your head, but I didn't say anything like that here. I said that the fact that the novels were being made is a way to hell and that we went the way of a completely new construction law, and not that the representativeship of officials was not because of § 96b, so we created a state construction office. This is complete nonsense, simply representativeness is necessary at all levels of the construction process and that is what we wanted in the construction law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš and Mr Ondřej Benešík will be prepared. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u26	Thank you. I'm just lightning. When we were talking about methodology and how the construction law was interpreted. I've given it several times as an example. When you decide to go into a lawsuit, the first question of a lawyer is which court has it and who judges it. So it can be seen that any law in the Czech Republic, which I suppose should be interpreted and understood equally, even in the courts of the lowest instance, is very crucial where it is and who is the person who judges it - the first question of the lawyer. So the thing with the methodology is that it doesn't go all the way, I think it's nothing to justify -- we won't say it's going to be -- but it doesn't matter. So let's just say there's one thing around here, one right, and it automatically falls down. I have fresh information from Mrs. Peštová's office. It is settled or sorted out about a third of the comments, of the first 290 is 90 major of the ministries. So far, it seems to me that there are not so many significant comments, and perhaps from the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court, we have the law without comment, which is quite important to me. And maybe the last thing: when we have prepared the proposal that we are now presenting, the substantive amendment, including this one, at the Ministry, yes, in cooperation with experts from other ministries, and so when we, as opposition, presented a comprehensive changeling, we did not have millions to write an amendment, just as with the right to information service, we then, in cooperation with the ministries, completed the laws of DEPO, all the implementing ones, with the Ministry of the Interior and delivered it as a whole. But it criticized the opposition for not having a comprehensive amendment with implementing ones, it simply cannot be made out of opposition benches. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u27	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík is another person who is registered with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, fellow Members, nothing is black and white. I understand that we all want to speed up, make it more efficient, lower the construction process. The law, of course, contains, or the original one, the original one, a number of very interesting and important and beneficial passages, but in a number of things it is simply wrong and will not lead to the desired goals. I'm going to tell you my experience as a community policy that moves in a community that has a construction office for 20 years, and I've been working as mayor. Our construction office covers other municipalities in the area, we have less than 4 000 inhabitants, so it is not completely negligible territory. There are two workers and neither one has full-time, logically, it is not necessary, and they cover other activities in the village. With these people, there's a huge probability that they won't go to the state construction office, they'll stay elsewhere. They'll stay in the village because they have a job there. Of course, the smaller one, which is rather administrative, can be replaced at the state construction office, but the really professional one, which is larger, say 0.8, will not be replaced. In other words, the building office is going to die. Physically, it is not possible for us to separate the municipality and provide space for the state construction office, where it is currently located. So besides the fact that the building office is going to die, there's a good chance that there's at least one person missing in the system in our territory that you won't be able to find today. So these are things that, in my opinion, are preconceived, and I'm telling you my experience here from practice, and believe me, if the law applies in the original draft, it's gonna turn out that way, it's gonna get more expensive and more expensive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. We have other factual points. The first to report is Mrs Berenika Peštová, and Antonín Tesařík and Klára Dostálová will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u30	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. You described it correctly. When you worked in your village, you had officials there who did some work. For the job, that's the transferred jurisdiction of the state, you were getting some kind of remuneration. I don't know if she was 100%, but for some part, the state paid you most of the time for that official working for the state, and you're doing it for him. So if you're telling me the clerk won't want to cross, I'd be surprised why he wouldn't? Because he's doing it for the state, he's a specialist in doing it, and you're going to burden him with another job that he's doing outside of his business, which he's supposed to do, so that's the problem of the community, not the official. And I can't believe that clerk isn't gonna pass. I can't believe the officials wouldn't pass, because there's a vision of them working in the state administration, and they're going to execute the government. And we're back with that ass-bridge thing where it's nonsense that there's this mixed model, that there's the government and the government in the same house, and there's the officials who do it, too. That's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u31	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, I would like to read an apology, for work reasons, to Mr Ondřej Benešík between 12.15 and 13.30 today. Mr Antonín Tesařík is now registered with a factual remark, so I will ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have your floor, and at this point, I will hand over the proceedings to my colleague, Karel Havlíček. You have your word, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to comment on two facts that may have not yet been said too much here, listening carefully to the speeches of the previous speakers. The first thing is that according to the statistical data of the Ministry for Regional Development, the Institute of Territorial Development two-thirds to three-quarters of the buildings are completed in the proceedings by issuing consent, i.e. the simplest form of the result of the territorial and construction proceedings, and this concerns the simpler constructions. When I remind you that it could be 60 per cent of the buildings, 40 per cent of the buildings are complex, which require a thorough discussion from the moment of the construction's location - this concerns spatial planning, regulation of spatial planning. And I have to say that I really feel a match here with the rapporteur's opinion, who has already expressed it at that first reading, and I have seen it as a great missed opportunity in this modification of the construction law, which we should pay attention to, because everyone who comes into the territory as a new builder always has a neighbor in the densely built territory that we know here, where it is necessary to deal with these relationships and resolve possible future disputes that may arise under the pressure of resignation, let's say, the officials and deadlines that are contained here. So I believe that there will be further discussions on this and that we will really prepare a standard that will serve quality and well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u33	Thank you. I wish you all a good day and another one, with a factual remark, is submitted by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u34	Thank you so much for the floor. Only to your honourable colleague, Mr Benešík, through you. I think there's really been a misconception here, because in the proposal for a new construction law, territorial workplaces are everywhere there are construction offices. That means the territory isn't gonna lose its territorial workplace, even the lady at the construction office isn't gonna lose her job, it's not gonna happen. The whole dispute that's being brought about here is whether it's a state's jurisdiction, a pure state's jurisdiction, or a transferred jurisdiction. And I repeat, building law is the competence of the state, the state has only decided to do it itself, and the fight is for it to be carried out. But here it really is, as the Supreme Administrative Court defined it, a clash of two universes. It's just that building law was never supposed to get into the delegation. It wasn't either of us, in 2000, I don't know if any of you were here, but this was just inappropriately chosen. But if a new construction law can be enforced, the local offices will be the same, the same lady who works in your village will work in the local workplace, only those people will be mutually representative and can help each other if there are more project applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u35	Thank you, and with another factual remark, Mr Benešík is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't think we're in any major dispute. I understand what delegated powers are, the performance of state administration and self-government. As mayor from such a utilitarian point of view, I'd love it if the construction office wasn't there, because people, as they don't understand it, felt that the mayor would order an official at the construction office as it should be. I've never done that in my life. I don't know how it works elsewhere, but we just had this construction office that really worked as a state administration without self-government interference. I see a huge logistical problem there. Specifically, it will not be possible for us to ensure that employees of a completely different organization move freely around the municipal authority. That means such a territorial workplace will have to be created somewhere else. I see these possibilities as very limited, and they will ultimately be more expensive in the end, specifically in this case. I'm pointing out that it looks great on paper, and I totally understand. The reality will be that the construction agencies of this kind will be very limited, eventually disappear, and it will all be for a citizen to have longer elbows than it is now. And really this will also lose knowledge of local terrain, local competence, when an official knows the terrain, knows specific people and is able to deal with it in many cases simply more qualifiedly, and this will fall away. So I understand that we want the construction office to be completely state-owned, but we have a mixed public administration model here, and if we do this kind of intervention, it's really going to end. I talk to these people, that's how it is. I'm not making this up, I'm just saying my own experience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u37	Thank you and another point of fact, Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u38	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker again. Now you're a little conflicted. The MP won't listen to me... On the one hand, you say you don't want it there, on the other hand, you say you want it there. So if you're saying that the mixed model is wrong, then you should do everything you can to make a law that is now valid and gradually becoming effective, so you should support it and give it a chance to prove whether the law is perfect or not. But you sentenced him to extinction at the very beginning. That means instead of fulfilling the diction of the law, you just said everything was wrong. Then you're all getting off here and saying this isn't bad, this looks good, well, this might want to fix it a little bit. But no law, when it's created - and now the Minister of Legislation isn't here, he would definitely confirm it to me - it's all births, because each law then requires some adjustments, some amendments that will complement or modify what was perhaps well intended at the beginning, but practice has shown something else. And when you say about the officials, we're all calling for digitization, we all say digitalization, we all want everything on paper, but everything on the computer. So, what, he won't be available? You have a computer, you log into this computer, you log into that server, or into some app, you put it all in there, the attachments, and you're not going anywhere. That's why the digitalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u39	Thank you and Mr Benešík wants to respond to the facts. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u40	I didn't want it or want it, I didn't mean it a little differently, I don't know if I was right. It's an extra job for the mayor, and it's kind of annoying, 'cause these people go to him without having jurisdiction. That's why I said it's better not to be there from a utilitarian point of view as mayor. But from a citizen's point of view, the user is of course better. And I think the mayor is worried, he's supposed to work for the citizens, and he's supposed to hear all sorts of complaints that maybe don't fall on his head. Unfortunately, that's how it is in municipal politics, the mayor is usually such a lightning rod. But it's more user-friendly for a citizen. [[12.10 hours]] And if we're talking about digitization, I'm sure, but the first one here was digitalization, and then we were supposed to talk about putting the territorial workplace in jeopardy in the Czech Republic. That was supposed to be the opposite. And I'll tell you that my experience with the communal, when... Of course, there are young families who are good with computers who want to build a house or a fence and so on, but the idea that Mrs. Popelková, who is 80 years old and needs to deal with something with the building office, simply finds an app, it doesn't quite meet reality. My experience again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u41	Thank you. We have two more factual points. Mrs Peštová came forward first, and then the rapporteur Dostálová will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u42	Mr President, of course we are not talking about - I do not know who you mentioned now - the name - of an 80-year-old lady we are certainly not talking about. This is where we talk about, of course, the times going forward. There are companies here, I'm sure you won't do the project yourself, you'll also find some company that will do the project to you, and the same company that will do the project to you will certainly be able to control the apps. I'm sure we can agree on that. But when you mentioned it, it was more like she stopped me - or I kind of paused over another thing, like you said the mayor was from caring, people going to see him, if he could influence it, he couldn't control it. And I'll tell you one thing. Before I went to this Chamber of Deputies, you certainly know that I was at the Ministry of the Environment, and I've been dealing with a lot of cases where officials have been influenced by politicians, and they've come themselves to help them, to pull it off, to download it to the Ministry, or to determine the other region that's going to do it, and that's exactly what these are mixed models. These are the very mixed models where politicians are influenced, and then those officials, they have nothing to do but walk and ask for help, because they do not want to comply with politicians and they do not want to lose their jobs, even if it should be some kind of reward that the Secretary - the Secretary of State is not there, there is the Director of the Office. So I've been dealing with these cases, and it wasn't pleasant to deal with it. And if anyone wants me to name names, I won't say those names. I was glad they found the courage and came to me to deal with it, because if I didn't solve it, no one would solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u43	Thank you. Mrs Dostálová and then Mr Benešík are signed up with another factual fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u44	Thank you. I am only once again to Mr Benešík, through you. I totally understand him, I totally understand, and I want to say it here on the microphone, because that's what many mayors have been telling me. They said, Ježíš Krist, let someone take the building office, because a citizen, a voter just doesn't understand it, he doesn't understand that it's the performance of the government that the community is doing for them, and that the mayor can't intervene. And I'm glad you're saying that you've never stepped in, which, of course, honors you because you've honored the law, but a citizen will never understand this, ever. It's just in your municipal office, it's under the mayor and secretary of the community, mayor, do whatever you can't do, and these people can't be explained. On the other hand, I don't understand why we're defending this model from being a clean state construction administration, when I say again that there will be territorial workplaces everywhere, so there will be no distance between the building administration and the citizen. They stay where they are, even with the same people and so on. And, of course, into the electronization, that the more competent would take it out of the comfort of home, but of course, we can't expose the older people to this kind of thing, so the territorial workplaces have to be there all the time. And just a little slip. Not everyone is as aware as you are, and I thank you again, Mr. Benešík. I also met with the fact that the civil servants of the construction offices came to see me. He may not enter the office of the building office, but the secretary may, and the secretary decides on their rewards. And that's exactly what the Supreme Administrative Court is judging, that it's not torn away from self-government, because, of course, through the paychecks and rewards, you keep them in pliers, and the officials often said to me, "We pay mortgages, we can't afford to resist."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u45	Thank you. Mr Benešík wishes to respond to the facts. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u46	I promise you, the last de facto, very brief. I think we could have this debate for a really long time, and I'm glad it's relevant that we're just sharing experience here. I just wanted to say that Popelka, Popelková is the most common last name in the Strání, which means I used something like Novák, Nováková, on our terms. So I wasn't really talking about anybody in particular, I just know what people in the Strání are called, so think of it as completely impersonal. On Prague's condition Novák, Nováková, in Strání Popelka, Popelková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u47	Thank you for meeting the Popelkův. [[Fun.]] And that was the last point in fact, so we are still in the debate, and I ask that the next one entered into the debate - Mr Mašek - should take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u48	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, allow me, after a blur of factual comments, which have been exchanged here by those who really understand this building bill, to give my own view of the matter - a little different. In the headlines they presently appear: Wasted chance for shortening the construction process, Best Law of 2021 is deboned and hibernated, Postponement of the construction law is a bad way. I chose another headline, and I would like to quote something to you here, and that is: "Every crown invested in construction will return to the economy three times, spoken at the summit." Constructions authorised in the last half-year could bring nearly CZK 916 billion to the Czech economy. This results from the construction barometer published by the Association for Architecture and Development at the construction development summit in its mid-term analysis of the construction and housing market. This is historically the highest result and is an increase of more than 35 percent compared to the previous half-year. For the following period, however, there is uncertainty in the construction industry. "As part of the barometer of construction, we are based on the volume of permitted buildings and apply a multiplier to it, where each crown inserted into the building means three crowns into future GDP," explains partner of the consultancy KPMG and member of SAR Pavel Kliment. During the second half of last year, this indicator showed a sharp increase. The multiplier, referring to the fact that the koruna invested in construction returns three times, is based on the calculation of the investment effect on the increase in revenue. With a value of three times in the case of construction, the Ministry of Regional Development also works in analyses. It is essentially that every construction and development generates additional revenue in the budget after it is completed, and that is perhaps the point. If, for example, a multifunctional house with offices and apartments is built, a shop or a café opens on its ground floor, new jobs will be created and so on. According to Mr Kliment, the current record values of the barometer are partly influenced by rising inflation, which increases the estimated value of building permits. Moreover, during the pandemic, many projects were delayed due to the limited functioning of the construction offices, so they have now accumulated. Therefore, this does not necessarily mean that it is only allowed more. However, according to Jiří Nouza, President of the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the barometer shows that construction as one of the few disciplines during the pandemic did not stop its activities. As far as individual segments of construction are concerned, the most important are engineering buildings, which could bring almost 380 billion, while at the same time the value of construction permits increased by 77 percent, so for example for non-residential buildings it almost did not change. This is mainly due to the declining construction of offices. A number of projects were left on paper due to uncertainty in demand or changes in companies' preferences, and above all in Prague it meant a huge decline. [[12.20 hours]] However, this offsets the construction of industrial real estate and storage areas, where there was a large increase. Apartment buildings account for about one third of the total value of permitted buildings, while the contribution of newly authorised apartment buildings to the economy for the last half of the year was CZK 303 billion and the value of building permits for residential buildings increased by up to 30 percent compared to the first half of 2021. According to the owner of the Central Group developer Dušan Kunovský, it is therefore clear that the accelerated approval of new flats is in the country's greatest interest, not only because of the housing crisis, but also because of the housing construction, it brings hundreds of billions of crowns into the tax budget. There are 130,000 flats in Prague at different stages of preparation that would bring the state more than 155 billion. In terms of speeding up the approval of new flats, a new building law is expected in particular. The one approved by the previous government is now on hold - and that is what we are discussing here. According to the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš, however, due to the circumstances of Czech construction, there are no golden times waiting. Direct speech: "We may have to get a taste for big ambitious projects," he says. Well, that's probably wrong, Minister, I say. While demand, despite adverse economic developments, is still resisting and people and companies are still willing to invest, there is increasing uncertainty on the supply side in building capacity and supplies of material. It's not possible to determine future costs now. It is a fundamental problem that leads to the caution of developers and will certainly lead to higher prices. It is now a question of whether to postpone the effectiveness of the construction law to 1. 7. just for selected constructions and the related establishment of a specialised construction office is a good compromise - I think not. There's a threat - it's got weaknesses. For example, it has fallen repeatedly, there may be confusion, legal uncertainties, and also paradoxically an extension of the building authorisation process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u49	Thank you, and the next one entered in the debate is Mrs Peštová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, at the previous hearing of the construction law, I mean second reading, I had a few questions about Minister Šalomoun, and these questions were: How will this retrospective law be defended? Will it be argued that it is common practice, or that it concerns only the transitional provisions of the law, that it is retroactivity, but in favour of the addressees of the standard, or that it is an unusual legislative technique, but that there is, in principle, no decision by the Constitutional Court to prohibit it? And Minister Šalomoun's reply: "Thank you for the floor, honourable Member, I am not quite sure if your preparation, your question is directed to this press, because in the House there is a similar press number 63, because the transitional provisions are a little bit different designed there, and I believe that your question would be somewhat more reasonable there. However, I will try to answer that, as I understand it. If the question is how will it defend retroactivity, I think, on the one hand, that the question is essentially random and expects that it isn't really about retroactivity. I don't think so, and what bothers you is that it might seem that the effectiveness of an effective provision is being shifted, if I understand it correctly. However, I believe that it is not really happening in this case. And if you look at the head of five, then the head of five already has a special provision in the title on the applicability of the law in transitional periods, and we have the effectiveness or shift of effectiveness in Section 335, so the effectiveness is shifted by this law only where, so to speak, it goes, where it has not yet taken effect. However, where it took effect, a different procedure was chosen. I can still say I didn't invent the procedure, I'm just defending him here. Even to me, the procedure seems Solomonian, but basically possible. And the way that a transitional period was chosen was chosen, and in that transitional period, the effects of this law, in fact, are hibernated for some time. However, it must be noted that the hibernated provisions do not interfere with anyone's rights, the builders will not be affected. It will not affect officials either, because the state construction administration has not yet been established and no official has gone to the newly established state construction administration. Nor will the President of the Supreme Building Office be affected, because he has not yet been selected. In other words, the present amendment will not interfere with any of the rights. But of course, it is clear that this amendment will have to be followed by something else and a change in the construction law, which is already under review, and I believe everything will be done. And what I wanted to say is that when the petitioner approached this solution, it was not such an innovative solution. An example may be the service law of 2002. It has also partly taken effect, among other things formally established the Directorate-General of State Services, but this has never been fully established, because the effectiveness of the rest of this law has been constantly and forever postponed. This is basically an example that is somewhat comparable to our situation, with the existence of the Supreme Building Authority, which is not yet occupied. So I suppose I've already satisfied your curiosity." End of quote. Minister, you have not satisfied my curiosity, my curiosity is much greater. And I ask, who invented the hibernation procedure if not you personally, Minister? You told me it wasn't you, so I'm wondering who invented this hibernation procedure? How is a transitional period treated after which the provisions that have become effective will be hibernated? How is it treated, what is it treated with? Furthermore, we have already said here - that the law has been passed through a commentary procedure, which was already answered by the Minister for Regional Development, who told me that there had been significant comments, namely only from the Chamber of Commerce - so you mentioned that you have only one third settled, as I understood, so that means that still... [[He's speaking towards Minister Bartoš.]] I understand, I understand, through Mr President. I understand that it came on Friday, but I know that one third of it is not three thirds, so I'm sure what you have finished, you have certainly finished ministerial comments, you don't have the other comment points like regions such as the Union of Cities and Municipalities, such as the Chamber of Commerce, such as the Confederation of Industry and Transport and so on and so on, because there will probably be the most essential comments of a fundamental nature, so maybe then I'll keep asking questions. As for the explanation, the Minister for Legislation: the comparison you have there with the Service Act, it must be added that the Directorate-General for State Services has been established. That it didn't go any further, that's what you told me, but the Supreme Building Authority hasn't even come up here yet. At least something was done in the Service Act and then the other dictions were not fulfilled because the effectiveness of the individual provisions was constantly shifted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Minister Šalomoun, who apparently wants to comment on Solomon's hibernation process, came forward with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u52	Šalomounský. Mr President, honourable Members, I will try to respond to this. Thank you, Mrs Peštová, for reading the interpretation I gave earlier. I'm sorry that I didn't have it ready, that there was a lot of that "I've got"-type word cotton wool. Anyway, we lawyers talk like that sometimes, so I'm sorry. A few questions I've written down here. Who came up with this procedure: I believe that you are very well aware of how the Legislative Council of the Government works and what the role of its chairman is, and I am not actually the petitioner. Of course, the bill is made at the Gestures Ministry, which is the Ministry of Regional Development. I'm not fully aware of the details, but it seems to have been consulted by my deputy, Dr. Kněžínek, so maybe he was the author of such a solution. I was just about to say, last time I used the term, it hibernates. Of course, it's a metaphorical term, and I could also use other legal terms as a sistatism. Or rather, it could be explained by the fact that it is a certain application privilege, that you have an old construction law here, so to speak, you have a new one, some provision has already become effective there, and now you have to deal with what you are actually going to use. There are legal interpretation rules on what to do with it, as lex specialis derogat legi generali, or by simply derogating that later regulation, however, here we went by another legislative technique. In fact, right here in the law it was said what is used primarily, and this is actually due to the fact that a transitional period has been defined here. You asked me, which transitional period is it? It is in Section 334 (a), I could quote the whole that the transitional period is meant for the purposes of § 334 (a). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4, which is the Supreme Building Office, where the transitional period means the period from 1 July 2022 to 30 June 2023. So I think I've explained it a little bit more. I recognise that this may be an unconventional approach, but I believe that legislatively possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u53	Thank you, Minister. In fact, Minister Bartoš is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u54	I don't know if I'm gonna be Solomonian or Solomonian, but I'm gonna respond real quick. Mrs Peštová here said, through Mr President, about her curiosity. So I keep finding out where these people are. 5. 2022, which was Monday, received at eKLEP - it also seems to you - received how they gradually settled it so that we could somehow give it... it is placed in the table, it is put there, what is the seriousness of the comment and who is the provider. Today there are some resorts, parts of regions, VOPs and other several institutions in the table. Some 290 are transferred, with comments expected to be crucial around a third. It's 11. 5. 2022 at half one and five minutes, i.e. the most recent information from people who are currently sorting comments to be in logical cells, because these comments are structured as the law, so you're either going after institutions and dealing with institutions, which is one approach that, for example, seems to me personally not so good. In my opinion, it is better to take the merit of the matter and see what comments are gathered on that part from the various departments, so even the seriousness of the comment may be very rational. I am not saying that there can be any error in the legislative text that has been overlooked, and then it can be seen even the frequency of comments on one thing and then you focus more on it. So it's just a settlement process, and it's Monday from night, it's the deadline, so we've got a day and a half so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u55	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u56	I, through Mr President, would like to thank the Minister for Regional Development. I've been through a lot of these laws, so I know what a settlement table is, I know how settlement tables are made. Of course, as you said, yes, you can either do by resorts or by comment points, or you can do it by section to see if you have more comment points on the section. And then what happens to me happens to you, you get notes that can't be dealt with at all, because one wants something, and the other wants something completely different. And then it depends on what priority you give it, because by settling one comment, you get in conflict with the other four comment points. So I wish you luck if you have one third. I wish you luck so that you can deal with everything in such a way that you have as little conflict as possible, which means the way we have prepared it, that is, in the Legislative Council of the Government or at the Legislative Council of the Government, we have gone to a maximum of ten contradictions, because they have been absolutely impossible to deal with. And the time you took is really gallows time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u57	Thank you. With the de facto Minister Bartoš. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u58	I think you don't know because you work at the Ministry of the Environment in Word and we in Excel, so you don't put it in the table - but you can also insert a table into Word. It's a joke. I just want to respond. The settlement of comments may also be: We all made comments and rejected them all, which we need to... which is the result of some very intense colloquiums, which I have unfortunately experienced from those who made comments. And the settlement of the comments was a rejection. Of course, at the moment, if you have two contradictory comments, you cannot comply with all. That's what the political debate is about, that's what the political debate with the partners is about. There will be a debate in the region, even in public settlement, at round tables, where we will actually meet over some things. But at some point, you have to say the direction that's preferred, as the promoter is this one, and then there's just voting on these things. Of course, there are many comments that prove to be ignorance. I am not an expert on all legislation, but, for example, in the field of the environment, if it is regulated by European legislation somewhere, so is the requirement that we cannot accept this because there is not a fiction of consent, is simply a reminder that is raised as fundamental, but I cannot accept it by its very nature, because I perceive it as the person who put it there may not have looked at how the whole part of the public interest, for example in a single environmental opinion, has been constructed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u59	Thank you. Another one, with fact, is registered by the rapporteur, Mrs Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to get back to Minister Šalomoun. I get it... What you're saying is that the newer law beats the older law. Yes, these are so-called lex specialis, but the problem is that this law has not exceeded the special laws, because there is absolutely no change in the laws of change. So, Minister, I don't think I understand it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u61	Thank you. Minister Šalomoun reports with priority. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u62	I'll try to explain. What I'm saying here is that there are different interpretation clauses in law on how to resolve a conflict of two, possibly several laws that regulate the same material. One of the interpretation rules is that the special arrangement takes precedence over the general one or that later it takes precedence over the primary one. [[12.40 hours]] However, these interpretation rules will not apply here and here it is settled directly by law within the transitional period of application of the existing rules for a transitional period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u63	Thank you. We are continuing the debate and the next one entered in the debate is Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u64	Thank you. Mr President, the remaining colleagues, the remaining colleagues, the ministers, I have joined the debate and I do not have the text prepared. I would just like to point out that, in the context of the construction law, we have touched on an interesting issue, and I would ask if my fellow ministers could also deal with this issue more closely in the future, and this is the link between the performance of the state administration and the authorities. Once in the 1990s, this model joined together, and it is unfortunate for me, because under the town halls, which can then influence, for example, where officials place their salary, their number, they can influence the self-government, delegated exercise of authority, i.e. state administration. This has happened in many areas. Here we are discussing one of the things where it has been an attempt to make it visible in some way, too, that it is not a self-governing exercise. Ladies and gentlemen, the construction authorities have absolutely no say in this administration, that is the administrative order - as far as possible as the party to the proceedings. But unfortunately, the council of the municipality sets out the number of officials and thus can quite significantly influence this performance of the state administration. This is, for example, also in transport activities where I have noticed - it is already a long time ago - when it is trying to get a trial commissioner to avoid being under municipalities to create a special institution. I would say that we should look at the question of whether to really divide the performance of government from self-government. Between us, it would also be clearer for self-government, and all the agendas she should have at the office would know that they could influence. That's how when someone who's not fully knowledgeable comes - even if the Civil Code says, I'm going to paraphrase a little bit, if I'm not up for it, I'm not supposed to take that function - that they want to interfere with this performance. I don't know if you've met this, I have, and as a former mayor, I've kept my eye on the fact that I'm not going anywhere to interfere with the administration, and then I was so surprised how some of the authorities are fighting to have the construction office with them. Oh, my God, why? We can't even interfere, we just have to pay him all the time, make sure they have a place to sit, so they have computer equipment purchased. And one more interesting thing. I will go a little bit, maybe a little bit to the political question, allow myself to put on glasses, and one beautiful sentence from the explanatory note to this law: "As a result of this situation, the construction law threatens to become subject to frequent changes according to the will of the current political majority, which is an extremely undesirable situation. " Well, the promoter is right, but that's what he did. So I understand that this is actually predicted that every change in the direction of government, new governments, all previous laws will change, cancel or hibernate. Excuse me, it's not quite good. I quote from the explanatory note, Minister, given your reaction, I can have it read. I don't like it. However, there is one thing I am calling into account here in this law. In accordance with the Government's programming statement, this is presented as a government, not a parliamentary bill, as is the case with other exposed prints. It might also be good to think about the compliance with this government's programming statement, but I will not comment on that until the drafts of Parliamentary laws tabled by coalition MPs. Thank you for your attention to all those who have stayed in the room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u65	Thank you, and Minister Bartoš is taking action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u66	Thank you, I'll just respond quickly. The mixed model - and I will certainly take care of it on the inside - the public administration is not even the Ministry of Regional Development, and it is not even a question of Solomonian, so I can certainly show you some things about strategic development and coordination of public administration, what was the philosophy behind it and what was the genesis behind it, and it is a conceptual issue of public administration, so I can certainly show you. And I, then, recalling the last term of office, for example, the law that we are dealing with now is actually the original government, subsequently submitted by a member of the government party. So just so we can... [[Ambassador Ožanová responds off the microphone.]] Mr Kolovratník's comprehensive amendment was the original... Very well, but the law that we are dealing with at the moment is the law that Mr Kolovratník has tabled as an MP's comprehensive amendment. There.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u67	Thank you. In fact, Mrs Ožanová is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u68	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification. I'm saying this because we should think about the principle at all. You see, Minister, try to see - thank you, you are right - all the bills that you advocate at extraordinary meetings that are government and that are parliamentary. [[He's responding to Minister Bartoš.]] It would be interesting if you took a look at it. And as for the mixed model, I know you haven't affected this, and we haven't affected it, but I'm asking you, as a member of the government, to present it to the government and address this issue. And now I will speak for myself, not for the YES movement. In the long term, I advocate and consider this mixed model completely inappropriate. Sorry, I was a clerk, I was a mayor - it's wrong. It is misunderstood for citizens that the mayor cannot interfere with this or the other, or then wrongly thinks that self-government is interfering with their affairs, which is not true, and there are many misunderstandings. A clear "state does this, this is what self-government does" would help to clarify our legal system, even for citizens it would be much easier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u69	Thank you. In fact, Minister Bartoš is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u70	Since we still know that this law won't wake up in two hours, that's okay, so I'm gonna respond because there are some pretty interesting questions opening up here. One: When there are laws on which there is great agreement, such as the right of a citizen to digital service, digital technical maps, and many others, these remain more or less unchanged, regardless of who is in power at the moment. The laws often change very strongly, although the original government in the previous parliamentary term had a very similar composition to that of the government that came after that, which, for example, in the case of the construction law, was the amendment A, which made it really worse in order to recodify it in the previous period. And so when the guards change completely, the opposition becomes a government coalition and vice versa, simply the laws that the opposition has been acting on in the long run, and we have been against the EET -- well, it was a long time ago... - but we were against the third, fourth wave, we were dealing with these things, so it's logical that the new government would want to change them in accordance with the programming statement, because then it would be inconsistent with the way she performed in the House. And otherwise, the House - what I would give for a slippery mandate, but the House is legislative, so any Member can make a proposal and the House can and does not have to deal with it at the moment. Of course, when you have some critical time, the government proposal is probably always the best way to go, but I can imagine variants where something goes quickly with a parliamentary proposal, because there is another regime of other deadlines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u71	She obviously wants to respond to Mrs Ožanová's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u72	Thank you for saying that the government proposal is the best way. Thank you when you say that in the conflict of interest law. As rapporteur, I say so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u73	Thank you. In fact, Minister Bartoš is reporting again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u74	[[He's laughing.]] I'm glad we're dealing with this. So we will do an analysis of the most important legislation ever made in the previous parliamentary term by a parliamentary proposal and how the changes were made, whether it was due to some kind of temporal distress, due to some crisis. Of course, I think it's good to talk it all out, but not even the parliamentary proposal itself - and notice this, when we proposed some laws as opposition, they also do not have a bed on roses, and they can go through a number of months in the House, so that eventually they may end up, well, and maybe sometimes they don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u75	Thank you. In fact, no one is claiming any more, so I would like another one of the participants in the debate, and this is Mr František Petrtýl. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as a man working my whole life in construction, also to express myself to the construction law, as well as to the former councillor of the Central Bohemia Region for transport. In fact, long periods of handling of the construction proceedings are plagued by all participants in the construction, both by investors and by the contractor of the construction works, and logically by other residents. Recently, several mayors have turned to me, where according to the government's proposal, the removal of construction offices in their municipalities is being considered. They're really worried about it, and they're a little scared of it. That is why I signed up in the debate to try to defend the new law and highlight the major five fundamental changes that will bring about the new building law. Firstly - it has been presented here several times, but I will repeat this - a unified system of construction offices and their separation from self-government. The law introduces a unified system of state construction offices headed by the Supreme Building Office. This is a systemic change that solves the fundamental problem of systemic bias, i.e. the risks of interfering with local authorities' decision-making on building authorisation. The creation of a single system of state authorities can prevent such cases. The benefit can also be a uniform and predictable interpretation of construction regulations. However, the condition is to ensure the transition of a sufficient number of high-quality officials and the organizational provision of this system. The second principle is the simplification and acceleration of the building process, the end of the so-called building ping-pong. One of the main reasons for the adoption of the new construction law was the complexity and fragmentation of the current legislation, resulting in a disproportionate length of proceedings for the approval of constructions. The construction law introduces one joint procedure for the permit of construction instead of the current territorial and construction proceedings and a number of other so-called special procedures. This is also related to the integration of some of the existing individual permits and opinions into the decision on the permit of the building. The decision of the building office will be made in cooperation of more authorised officials. For example, the opinions of the Nature Conservation Agency for projects in specially protected areas, the decisions of the authorities of state conservation care in the protection zone of cultural monuments and conservation zones, the opinion of the Fire Rescue Corps, the expression of mining authorities, veterinary administrations and so on and so on. In addition, the Board of Appeal will not be entitled to cancel and return the decision issued at the first instance, but will always have to decide definitively. As I was saying, this will prevent the renegotiation of things to the so-called official ping-pong. Thirdly, changes in spatial planning and changes in construction requirements. The territorial planning documentation at all levels, i.e. the territorial development plan for the whole state, the principles of territorial development of the region, municipal planning and regulatory plans, will be developed in a unified process. The time limits for its acquisition, albeit non-binding, shall also be introduced. The possibility of making changes to the land-use planning documentation and regulatory plans at the initiative of authorised persons and authorities is further modified. The spatial planning documentation will be required to be prepared in an electronic version in a machine-readable format and their selected parts in the so-called uniform standard, in the same formal way in all cases. The cities of Prague, Brno and Ostrava will be able to issue their own construction regulations which lay down detailed requirements for construction by way of derogation from the national implementing rules to the construction law. Under the law and implementing regulations laid down in the construction requirements, it will also be possible to derogate in certain protected areas for public works and in some other cases if such a solution better protects the public interest. Fourthly, planning contracts will treat the relations between municipalities and investors. The Act contains a detailed regulation of planning contracts which gives municipalities and investors greater legal certainty as to what may be the content of their mutual obligations in the area of future use of the territory, in particular in the construction of public infrastructure. The municipality may set the conclusion of such a contract as a condition for the implementation of a certain construction project in the zoning plan. In a contract concluded on the basis of a voluntary agreement of the Parties, the municipality may undertake, inter alia, to provide steps to change the zoning plan or, on the contrary, not to change it for a certain period of time. This commitment only affects the party or parties to the contract. It is not a legal obstacle to the exercise of the powers of the municipal authorities. Investors' obligations may relate, for example, to participation in the construction of public infrastructure or other buildings caused by their intention or, where appropriate, to the taking over of the costs of such construction or the provision of cash or material supplies for the evaluation of the land by issuing land planning documentation. The last standard, the last advantage I would like to mention, is more stringent removal and additional approval of constructions. The law tightens the conditions for additional authorisation of so-called black buildings built without permission or contrary to its terms. Such a construction will be possible in addition to fulfilling all other legal conditions additionally only on condition that the builder acted in good faith, i.e. that he did not knowingly break the law. The Act also expressly states that if the application for additional building permit is not issued within a specified period, the construction cannot be additionally authorised. Milder conditions will apply when the construction was legally authorised, but the permit was subsequently revoked. In these circumstances, the construction office will authorise the construction by a new decision if, in repeated proceedings, it proves that all legal conditions are met. Even if any of these conditions are not met, the construction will be allowed in repeated proceedings if the construction worker acted in good faith and if the removal order would result in more injury to third parties or to the public interest than that resulting from the non-regulation of the removal of the construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. No one is reporting with the facts, so the next one entered in the debate is Mrs Pošarová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u78	Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, perhaps all Czech political parties in their programmes declare the need to change the current state of public building law and simplify and speed up the authorisation processes. Even the current government, in its programming declaration of 7 January 2022, at several locations, declares that the most important is the crucial acceleration of the construction process at present. At the same time, it states that it will try to change the construction law so that the construction authorities are preserved at local level. New Construction Act No. 283/2021 Coll. and related amendment law No 284/2021 Coll. has been approved after four years of intensive preparation and legislative work carried out by a broad expert team of dozens of experts outside and within the state administration. Since 29 July 2021 they are part of the valid legal order of the Czech Republic. Some of the provisions of the new Construction Act have already taken effect on 30 July 2021, the next one being on 1 July 2021. 1. 2022 and as a whole should take effect 1. 7. 2023. [[13.00 hours]] The approved construction law, in most of the provisions, fulfilled the expectations that the professional and interest public in the Czech Republic had placed on the necessary reform of building law, namely the recommendations of the European Commission and the OECD in the Czech Republic, of course the fulfilment of the wishes and petitions of citizens, and even NGOs, in particular the real and fundamental deformification, unification, acceleration and simplification of the authorisation process, with the preservation of all public interests and rights of participants, and with an emphasis on the substance and weighting of conflicts of interest in the territory in the framework of integrated management conducted before a single and uniform building office, the so-called concept of "one office, one procedure, one stamp". The new building law brings in particular the following positive changes: the first change that was, is the establishment of a new uniform system of state building administration, following the model of cadastral offices and the abolition of municipal and special construction offices in municipal and regional authorities, the resolution of the problem of disunity of the administration's performance and its political influence by elected representatives of the government. It is for these reasons that the courts very often judge systemic bias. The second point is precisely why there was actually a unified structure of the state construction administration. It was precisely disunity in the authorisation within the Czech regions. One and the same project were otherwise permitted in one region and another in the other. This is due to the administrative order, because the hierarchy within the delegated scope is that the Ministry issues methodologies to regions and regions subsequently to municipalities. This hierarchy, of course, does not work very well with each other. The methodologies are not binding and according to this authorisation in the Czech Republic in the finals looks. Another important moment, which essentially brings about a new building law, is material law as such and procedural reform. Process reform is very important because it essentially repeals all the existing ten types of authorisation processes. Just to remind you that we know what types of processes in the Czech Republic and currently we have and what we are trying to postpone for another year here today. The ten processes are: territorial management, territorial management with the EIA, common territorial and construction proceedings, common territorial and construction proceedings with the EIA, simplified territorial management, territorial consent, common territorial consent, consent to the implementation of the notified construction project, notification, building permit and public contract replacing the building permit. This is all being abolished by a new construction law, and there will be basically only one procedure. As I said before, the effort was before one office so that in the finals every builder would get only one stamp. As far as one authorisation is concerned, there is essentially a replacement of the current amount of authorisation processes by one procedure to which the intention will be authorised. Of course, it will be possible to use the accelerated procedure. That means the building office will issue the permit as the first act in the proceedings. Another very important part of the procedural reform is the inexhaustible deadlines, what everyone is complaining about, and we have also met this in the framework of the construction process. It's about citizens complaining about how the state doesn't respect their deadlines. If we, as citizens, fail to meet the deadlines in taxes, for example, we are immediately sanctioned. If the state of the building process fails to comply with the deadline, nothing really happens. Of course, there was a huge problem, for example, for young people who were looking for a mortgage, wanted to build a family home, a mortgage was granted to them, and a building permit nowhere, and of course they had to postpone the mortgage maturity for years to come. It was absolutely essential for us to deal with precisely these inexhaustible deadlines, that is, both for the construction authorities and for the authorities concerned and for the proceedings and appeals. The issue of building permit is therefore within 30 days for simple constructions, within 60 days for other constructions and up to 120 days for constructions that have EIA. At the same time, construction authorities may extend the period by 30 or 60 days at their discretion so that they can actually conduct a process with a particular construction worker. The same time limits shall apply to appeals. Other important elements of procedural reform are the institutions concerned. We have come to the conclusion that we have really integrated the authorities concerned extensively into the system of state building offices. The point is that a builder can have up to 12 project documentation today. He'll take every file to another office, and each office will tell him otherwise. Fire department tells him, for fire safety, you need this, the landlords need something else, so we can get on with it. These authorities just don't communicate. Therefore, it is essential to integrate them into the building office in order to assess one project documentation and to tell the builder what needs to be adjusted, if necessary, so that the project can be successful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u79	Thank you. Mrs Peštová came forward with a point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u80	I'd like to follow up on my previous speaker here about systemic bias, and I'd like to ask Minister Šalomoun if he's met or not? But I met with systemic bias while I was in the ministry. By going according to the administrative order, of course, I passed through and tried to improve more and more, so I went to training where we discussed individual judicates and problems that are currently occurring in terms of application of the administrative order. And just when I was on the last one, before I went to the Chamber of Deputies, we were discussing it, and we came across the question of the construction law, when we were told that, in essence, every ORP would, if it asked for a building permit at an office that is in a mixed model, that is, at its office in its house, it should not do so and it should ask for a building permit not to be systemic bias, in the ORP that neighbors it, precisely to eliminate systemic bias. Have you thought about it in any way? Because by keeping this model mixed, this will happen, which means systemic bias will be challenged, and municipalities will be in trouble about not being able to... or being difficult to obtain building permits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u81	Thank you. Minister Šalomoun reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u82	Madam, in principle, you will never solve the systemic bias; it will always be there. Now you have a community level, and if the construction law is adopted or if it becomes effective, you can't eradicate systemic bias, you're actually going to move it up a level, because it's going to exist at state level. If it costs to build something, so will his officials, so systemic bias will only appear somewhere else. So the system bias will always be here, whether the system is in a mixed model, or the system is strictly separate, it will always happen, and all that matters is what level it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u83	Thank you. In addition, Minister Bartoš submitted a factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u84	We were just discussing that this was dealt with at the Supreme Administrative Court with some result, but we always play systemic bias. The construction authorities will decide 117 000 things per year - territorial decisions, territorial consents, building permits, public contracts and so on, and the objection of systemic bias has been identified in 0.002136 - these are the places behind the decimal point - as a percentage of the total number of these performances. This results from the Ministry of Interior's data on the number of objections submitted to the system bias for 2018. [[year]] 166 objections were raised by the first-instance building authorities, 25 objections were raised by the second-instance authorities. Only I, in the short time that I was here in the House for four years, have encountered cases where the construction of systemic bias or even bias was built on the fact that, for example, someone had in their electoral program that they wanted something to happen in that village, and it really came true. [[13.10 hours]] Or when a politician says, it would be nice to have family houses here, and then they're created there. Of course, the creativity of attacking bias can be different, different levels, differently justified, but if I came out of statistics, it seems to me that it really is two zeros behind the decimal point and then some small percentage of the total number of operations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u85	Thank you. In fact, Mrs Dostálová is enrolled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u86	Thank you. Of course, systemic bias is also one of the topics that we could be dealing with here for a very long time. But I would like to follow up on the last words that Minister Bartoš said through you, because that's exactly it. You actually said the big absurdity, which is that building law is part of a mixed model. After all, the politician elected in the village is to say that he wants a new primary school there, that he wants an industrial zone and so on. And then it's absurd that whoever attacks it succeeds with systemic bias, because of course he can influence the projects. Just what the Minister said. This is exactly what we have been dealing with, Minister Šalomoun, with the Supreme Administrative Court. We even had it in the original proposals to make it all fall under the Ministry of Regional Development, and they pointed out that we would move the system bias to a level higher, so they recommended that it be a central government body, so that it would not be subordinate to any of the ministries as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u87	Thank you and Mrs Peštová, then Minister Bartoš, is also signed up with the facts. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u88	Systemic bias is blooming now, it's starting to be the right time. I don't know, she probably needed some time, but anyway, before I came here to the Chamber of Deputies, she was starting to develop more and more. And once something is attacked by systemic bias, of course it doesn't address the authority, it solves the higher authority, which must take into account whether or not there is systemic bias, and then it goes on. And that's exactly what the previous speaker, Králka Dostálová, said in front of me, Klárka, I'm sorry. [[Mr Dostálová's response from the rapporteur's table.]] The village is just trying to do something, and then it can get into that systemic bias with anything. At least I, if I take from the personal practice I've had, we've been dealing with the systemic biases of the regions, but completely senseless systemic bias. For example, there were applicants in those regions who asked for something and were attacked by the fact that they had concluded a memorandum with the county that they would behave ecologically and that they might drop 10,000 trees. And for that, they were already attacked that the region is systemically biased because it cannot decide on this matter because it signed a memorandum with the applicant, while the applicant was only trying to greenen the region. So these are the systemic biases that will be there. And that's when I think that the county also has a mixed model, we've got a little bit of a mess going on here, and it's gradually coming from not only the regions, but it's getting to the village. The village will want to make a new road or a new sidewalk and will be attacked for systemic bias by, for example, the entity that competed and will perform the reconstruction or construction of something new, or by giving the city something, like some elementary school where they are founders, is actually being attacked for being biased. [[President: Madam, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u89	Thank you. In fact, Minister Bartoš is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u90	And that's why I thank you for this beautiful bridge. I've already dealt with the chairwoman of the committee once again. And that's why we need to focus on that part of the planning documentation and the regulatory plans where the future of the territory is fixed. We're working on it at the Ministry. The whole group, which in some way - that there were elections and then waiting for a moment before the government - was not an action, it is an action again, we already had the first meeting with opponents of the fundamental change with supporters. And if there is good planning documentation, there will be - the Olomouc model - hundreds of regulatory plans with the appropriate detail - height, use, width - significantly lapse these disputes, because, in fact, when you go into that territory to enter a building procedure, it is more or less clear what it will be, as it should be, and all the debates at the political level, including the authorities concerned, are in the process of approving the land planning documentation, which is also a regulatory plan, which, of course, is not, although it is sometimes viewed, the territorial studies that are there. When I say to myself, "Look at what it would look like if there was a park -- a park study, see what it would look like if there were houses -- there's a study with houses, and it's often viewed as some kind of legal act that's binding. She sometimes provokes the discussion itself, which of course is not part of the planning documentation and, as such, is simply the basis for some political decision, such as the future change of the zoning plan or the establishment of a regulatory plan in the process where it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u91	Thank you. In fact, no one is claiming any more, so please, another person who is enrolled in the debate, and this is Mr Kolovratník. Let me just remind you that at 1:30, I'm going to have to interrupt the debate, and I'm going to have to break the point because we have fixed voting points. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u92	Thanks for the word. I hope I can make it by 1:30. I've been listening to the debate. I've listened to it carefully. I am glad that in a number of moments, and I appreciate that, I appreciated that in second and first reading, the Minister responds to us immediately in the debate. Thank you for that. But, you know, it's kind of déjà vu. I'm going back to last year in my thoughts, when we were discussing today's valid draft amendment to the construction law. When I heard passionate debates here about systemic bias and bias, I have to remember those beginnings again, and not even last year, but really sometimes minus four, five years for 2016, 2017, and now it's actually said to my colleague Peštová, when the whole philosophy arose and was looking for ways to avoid systemic bias. There were respected names as an economist Professor Michal Mejstřík, and there was Professor Stanislav Kadečka. I think it's too bad these gentlemen are already watching our fights from above, that unfortunately they are no longer among us, because they might be able to help us. They would help us professionally, and I don't want to downplay it, I mean with humility and good, maybe in last year's debates, and they would help us bring our opinions closer together even now in the current discussion. But again, and now it may be too much simplification, too lay towards the minister, the reaction to him, the ordinary people, the applicants, the builders, it really doesn't matter how organized one or the official who decides is included. We've always given and given it a very simple analogy to the cadastral authorities, to the Financial Administration. It works in the whole republic, it has its workplaces. Perhaps the Financial Administration - not possibly, 100% - is more often encountered by people than by the construction office. A common man probably builds once, twice as many as possible, as they say, not in ten years, but in life, many of us are in contact with the financier several times a year. I don't think anybody's gonna question the argument that the Financial Administration works well. She's helpful, she's communicative, she's already digitized, and so on and so on. But that's not what I want to talk about. It's just looking back and a certain reaction to the debate here. What interested me, though I may be running ahead of the next debate, and therefore I will say this very briefly, are really the animosities and moods or resistance of the regions and municipalities against the newly introduced amendment to the construction law, or the factual one, when the minister could oppose me that we are not talking about it yet, we are talking about the relentless one, but it is bound. And it's connected because we say, "Please don't postpone the law, let it run, and let's do it in some common agreement, upgrade the agreement." And if it's a match, if we start working on it, not just the construction law, but the line 416 of 2009, which we did here in the last House, we're able to put it together in six months of intensive work. And I think it's been heard since Klára Dostálová. As the author of the complex proposal, I'll confirm it. [[13.20 hours]] If you want to go the way of integration at ORP level, that's the thing that we understand. That's the kind of thing we'd love to sit down with you guys at the table, we can make it happen, and we can work it out. And then there's the useless work of the minister, of his officials, of the useless spending of our time here, of the drop-off novel, or of the thing that's already waking up huge controversy. And I quote it fast, and I look at it quickly. We might be pleased to say that, even politically, within the Pirates and STAN coalition, the starosta and independents, which raise such contradictions, but we are not happy here. We'd be happy to find the match. But we can say that it's political for you, for you, that we don't care. But look what I'm reading here, I think it's from yesterday's media: The new version of the construction law prepared by Minister Ivan Bartoš with his team went through an interdepartmental commentary procedure, within which the Ministry could express itself by Monday midnight, and so on, and so on and so forth. She met with harsh criticism from both regions and municipalities. In the end, hundreds of fundamental comments were submitted to it, and the ministry and the unions added more, and of course, that is what the Ministry will be discussing now. Well, you see, we've heard nice ones here, I believe well-meaning words about the need to find a match, I think Minister Martin Kupka said those words, a consensus as large as possible, a society-wide, political, but then colleagues, please read it and see how it hasn't even come to the House yet, and how huge controversy you already have on this proposal, which now ends on Monday. Comments, comments were made by all 14 regions. They criticize the zoning adjustment, criticize the standardisation of the land-planning documentation, which, by the way, is the content of my amendment, which I want to conclude on whether or not I can make it, or the next time we continue, try to explain it to you and ask for support. Suše's introductory words today were stated by the petitioner and rapporteur that the committee gave a negative opinion on this proposal - but I apologize, it was a political vote on the number of people we do not want, we disagree. In doing so, there is such a huge reminder, a reasoned amendment, why they need, especially those big cities, exceptions, such as exceptions to standardisation, why they should have a chance to deviate from them. Still, in quotation marks, it's off the table. And don't be mad at me, I don't mean that offensively, but this isn't a match, because you're going head-to-head again, and you just can't get that match. And I'm coming back with that donkey bridge: the consensus is that we have a valid law here. We've repeated it several times, I said it here at first reading, things that didn't work out in quotation marks a year ago, for example, four urban articulas, it was urban planning of municipalities and regions in separate scope, it was a better position of builder in the process of possible subsequent appeals, it was a better procedural position in municipalities for investment projects that are happening on their territory. And I repeat again, and as the author of the comprehensive amendment, it may be the debate to return to integration at the level of municipalities with extended scope, and that is what we will agree on. But then there is no need to spend our time, spending time in regions and big cities over the way or over the form you have chosen. I looked into the material, I didn't have time to read it completely into detail, comments from the capital city of Prague, I suspect there were some 70 or 70 or two, and of that roughly, friends, fifty-five major, serious, only Prague has such serious comments. And don't be mad at me, and that goes, Minister, to you and to your team, when I see the communication, whether in the media or in the comments, or in the settlement of my amendment, where the Ministry, ministerial servants say: We think it is better for Prague and for statutory cities to have uniform standards in territorial plans, because it will be cheaper for them. But the cities say, "We don't want it, it's more expensive for us, it's gonna cost us more! But in the justification for rejecting my amendment, the opinion of ministerial officials is: We think it'll be better for those cities. So look at the huge contradiction we're in. And now I'm turning a lot to my colleagues from STAN, the mayors. When we were arguing here, when we were fighting for the building bill last year, your very strong argument or counterargument against our path was subsidiarity, that the performance, the decision making should be as close as possible to people. Don't do the central administration, it's supposed to be as close to people as possible. O.K., it was a relevant argument, and I confess to you, I've been thinking about it a lot myself. I, too, am an unreleased representative in Pardubice in the city, I am a regional representative, so I was very serious about whether or not you were right if we were going the wrong way. But then, a year later, here in the argument against the amendment, we read that ministerial servants think it's better or cheaper for municipalities when the municipalities themselves see it differently. Think about it, please. That's what they're arguing about. I, unfortunately, will no longer be able to read from the media, I will just update when we continue the debate, that I have an amendment prepared there, and even if it was rejected by the committee, I will try to make an argument with you, and I will return to it. Indeed, they are trying to correct the biggest mistakes, first of all, the incompatibility between the postponements that you may eventually vote for and the link to the change laws, and secondly, they are trying to help cities and municipalities, for example, in those territorial plans. I think I know how the minister will respond - he's gonna say he wants to deal with it in the material novel, I think I've noticed it somewhere. But maybe it's pointless, maybe, we've got it all set up, we've got it all figured out, so maybe we can do it now. So much for me, there's still another spokesperson registered, so I'll see you later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, Minister Bartoš is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u94	I'll close it humorously. Mr Kolovratník, through Mr President, if you are the author of this comprehensive amendment, I am Mickey Mouse. The proposal is to recycle the proposal that was originally written by the lawyers of the Ministry of the Interior. The second thing, when we deal with the comments, it's not "some ministry officials think" but the ministry comes in as a whole. When you spoke of the number of comments, you read quite a tense title. So when you say, there are hundreds of comments, and I said there are about 800 of them, of which about a third is serious, so the original proposal of the government or the Ministry of Regional Development for Mrs. Dostálová still had over 8,000 of them and caused horror because it landed there completely out of nowhere, written on the Ministry's orders. So I would just like to ask: we, as the Ministry, present the law, your amendment that spoke there: And we will give all the statists our own construction regulations, so it is certainly not desirable even for all the stats. Here, an ANO member is performing with the importance of standardisation, terribly, so that it will be the same everywhere, and then you are performing with the fact that it isn't supposed to be the same everywhere, that it is supposed to be its own building regulations. And please, just that there's a debate going on over the level of integration, and that even the oerpéčka, it was the original proposal, we solved it in the coalition. So I wouldn't illustrate any split, we just came up with some proposal, and even now, as part of the settlement of the commentary procedure, and I said that at the beginning, if there are any relevant arguments, if something is handled in that law maybe not quite well or if something is added there, it will work better. It's a settlement process. The settlement process is not automatically rejected, the settlement process is not automatically accepted and the process is such that a consensus is sought that was not found in the previous parliamentary term, then it was frameworkally with the Government's hybrid proposal and then it was swept away by the parliamentary proposal that you, whose dare I say, were not the author. I also did not physically write every paragraph of the comprehensive amendment, at least we admitted who created it with us. And the thing that we're going to discuss has been prepared by the Ministry of the Interior as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u96	[[Returns to the microphone:]] Ministry of Regional Development! Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u97	Thank you for the time being and also with a factual remark, Mrs Dostálová reported. And I'm just saying, we're gonna have to cut the point in a minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u98	Yes, I'll try to be very quick, I'm glad he's fixed up. I would just like to correct the Minister in that it is really necessary to look at the hierarchy of the creation of a new building law. We actually followed the legislative rules of the government, that is, the substantive intention of the law, which was passed by the Legislative Council of the Government, then the substantive intention of the law was approved by the Government, then, of course, the Legislative Council of the Government, the approval of the government, and the amendment that then took place here in the Chamber of Deputies was based on the substantive intention. So please, there's no place for invectors here, because everyone can track it down the way it was. And as for the comments, well, Minister, we went through a brand-new construction law. You're making a partial amendment, and, of course, there are a number of comments, and I'm going back here again to the fact that the whole social agreement over the construction law is basically impossible. [[President: rapporteur...]] I'm sorry, I'm done. I know it's time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u99	I have to interrupt you and, as I have anonounced, I have to interrupt this point, given that we have a fixed ballot since 13:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-003-077.u100	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, we now have firmly placed points on the agenda. The first is the electoral point number
