ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 289 - first reading [[9.10 hours]] Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Vladimír Balaš. Please, Minister, take the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Colleagues, colleagues, yes, I hear your colleagues are trying to keep you down. It's not helping yet. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Thank you. Mr. Secretary, let's see if it helps. Please. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Yes, thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, to justify the proposal to amend the law on pedagogical workers and school law. The proposal follows up on the Government's programming declaration of 6 January 2022, and in terms of its intentions, it should strengthen the position of school director as manager, support the early teachers and implement the reform of teacher training accentuates their practical skills in particular. With regard to the recognition of professional qualifications, the school head may for a maximum period of three years recognise the presumption of vocational qualifications as a second-grade primary school teacher and secondary school teacher for the teaching of subjects which correspond to the studies completed. This also applies to practitioners, if their education and practice correspond to the nature of the subject being taught, and to students in a Master's degree programme aimed at the preparation of teachers in second grade primary schools or secondary schools. However, for a particular employee, the total period of recognition of professional qualifications shall not exceed three years or, in summary, for more than one employer. As regards educational programmes for pedagogical staff, the proposal narrows the scope of accreditation of educational programmes in the system of continuing education of pedagogical staff only to programmes which acquire the professional qualifications of pedagogical staff and to studies leading to the acquisition of qualification assumptions and other qualifications of pedagogical staff. Here, for example, there is talk of a specialization study or a study for the director. Educational programmes for continuing education of pedagogical staff will not be accredited in the system of continuing education of pedagogical staff. The choice of appropriate educational programmes or other professionally developing activities for pedagogical staff will be under the authority of the headmaster of the school. And the school will be able to use the funds provided from the state budget. On the other hand, all lifelong learning programmes undertaken by universities, if they acquire further vocational qualifications for teaching staff, will have to be accredited in the system of continuing education for teaching staff. For the qualification programme for second-level primary school teachers and secondary schools, the range of providers from universities and facilities for further education of pedagogical staff is extended. As regards the adaptation period and the question of the teacher, accompanying the teacher and the teacher, the position of the teacher shall be anchored within the adaptation period, providing the initial teacher with the necessary support during the initial period of his career. In connection with the implementation of the reform of teacher training and teachers in the Czech Republic, the position accompanying the teacher is newly defined as a key element of improving the quality of pedagogical practice. The work of a class teacher is also newly defined, which consists mainly in organizational and administrative activities, but also in further work with pupils and their legal representatives. As regards the changes following the evaluation of joint education, so-called inclusion, joint education has been evaluated. There is mainly a revision of the requirements for professional qualifications in the case of a special teacher, school logo and teaching assistants, with emphasis being placed on increasing the requirements for training. Another important point of this proposal is the salaries of teaching staff. It is proposed to lay down the rules on the level of salaries of teaching staff in schools and educational establishments established by the region, municipalities or voluntary associations of municipalities. It is based on the proposal from the last parliamentary term, but you can verify it in the 503, unlike this original version, the proposal outlines the rule as a commitment of a minimum amount of funds for the salaries of all pedagogical workers, with a specific level of pay rates still being the subject of government regulations as for other employees remunerated by salary. Therefore, sufficient funds will be provided to fulfil the commitment enshrined in the Government's programming declaration. As regards further changes, we can, for example, find a minimum level of proof of knowledge of the Czech language for pedagogical workers who have obtained professional qualifications in a language other than the Czech language, there is also a link between the qualification assumptions of selected groups of pedagogical workers with Act No. 179/2006 Coll., Act on Recognition of Results of Further Education. I would also like to mention the related implementing regulation. The amendments to Decree No. 317/2005 Coll., on further education of pedagogical staff, accreditation committee and career system of pedagogical staff, as amended. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u2	Thank you, Minister. I ask now that the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Pavel Klíma, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u3	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good morning, colleagues. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports presents, within the framework of the House's Press, 289 a draft amendment to the Act amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on Educational Workers, and Act No. 561/2004 Coll., so-called school law. The Minister has introduced us to the details, I will not repeat them. Let me just remind you that the amendment to this law was under discussion in a slightly different version of the House in the previous term. It wasn't approved. For what reasons, I'm sure we'll ask each other during the hearing. Ironically, this gives us the opportunity to approve perhaps a more comprehensive standard, which during spring went through not only a classic commentary procedure, but rather a broad debate among the professional public. A meeting with representatives of professional groups, universities, non-profit organizations dedicated to modern education and the preparation of teachers and directors took place on the school committee and subcommittees alone. So much news for the most important points in the novel. I will say more for myself as former director in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u4	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening up a general debate to which Mr Ondřej Matěj Havel joined first. Mr Pavel Klíma will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u5	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, please allow me to see the proposed amendment on three aspects, which I consider to be very important. My colleagues will surely complete me in the next debate. I consider the amendment presented to be conceptual because, in my view, it fulfils points and resolutions in the 2030+ Strategy very effectively, and that is, first and foremost, the 130 per cent gross salary for teachers. I think it is very crucial of two aspects that I would like to mention. [[9.20 hours]] First of all, it is an instrument that we can really give perspective to talented people who would think about teaching and maybe now, for various reasons, maybe even financial, choose a different profession. We just need to drag them in. Another thing that is very conceptual and which is important in this very resolution, if we want to strengthen the role of head of the school, is that we keep 20 percent of the salaries in the upper-level teachers. It is indeed a matter that will strengthen the role of director as manager, along with the fact that then there are a number of things that strengthen his pedagogical leadership. Furthermore, I would like to stop at this perhaps a little controversial point and thus open the teaching profession to unqualified people for a maximum period of three years. It would certainly be best if we did not need such an adjustment at all, but I do not think that education would always be a priority over the past 30 years. This means that the situation is such that teachers are not enough, and for a transitional period this provision simply makes sense because we do not have enough qualified teachers. Surely, in the future, in the next amendment, it would be best if we were to cancel these paragraphs, because we could say that there are already enough pedagogical workers. May this succeed! And one more thing I'd like to touch is the position of a class teacher that the submitted amendment is a little bit modified. It's about changing the concept of a class teacher. The teacher is no longer in the new concept of a clerk who merely handles a note, who controls the classroom and only leads the administrative agenda of the class. In that new concept, the class teacher is someone who works with the class team, where he actually hosts relationships in the group, in the classroom. This is highlighted in the 2030+ Strategy in modern pedagogical ways. This is a very good reflection of the amendment that has just been mentioned. Thank you for your attention so far and I am ready to answer any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u6	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have now noted one point of fact. I beg you to bear with Mr Klíma. Mr Rais came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u7	Thank you. I would follow up on the previous speaker about the average salaries, because I'm sure it's commendable that there's an effort by the coalition government to balance salaries. So far, of course, the well-known fact that it has not been fulfilled is that the press release from the press spokesperson has now come forward that the 130 percent average salary will be paid by the end of 2024. Well, that's the first point. Second point. I'd like to ask - what about the unedagogists? Everyone here is talking about teachers. On the other hand, there is a huge army of qualified people, whether specialists in the economy or in the food sector and the like, and we should probably also do that in some way. I merely describe this as the problems that we should be discussing on the committee, because I think that there is an opportunity, in the form of amendments, to intervene here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u8	Thank you. Mr President Výborný has now signed up with the facts, and then Mr Havel will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u9	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I think it's good to have that debate at the point where it is, so I want to respond to that factual remark from my colleague, Rais. I totally share, and I think, with the Minister and the rapporteur, the concern for the salaries of non-teaching workers. I just want to remind you that we are now open and discussing the law on teaching workers. So, from the logic of things, we can't deal with the salaries of non-edagogues. I would like to remind you that it was our government and the Minister, who, this year, in the half-term, pushed for a 10 percent increase in the salaries of non-edagogues. Because we're aware that schools have to work and there have to be cleaners, there have to be janitors, there has to be a school cafeteria worker and so on. Of course, we can have a political, academic debate here, whether it is sufficient or not. I respect that. It's your part of the opposition. I get it. But I just want to remind you that it's not like we're throwing non-edagogues in the trash or somewhere, but right now we're primarily talking about teaching workers, teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u10	Thank you. Mr Havel will speak with another de facto. No, he's downloading. Mr Klíma also withdrew. Now with Mr Fridrich in fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u11	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, everyone. I would just like to respond to what has been said here - to enable unqualified teachers to teach. I don't think a graduate like matphyzu or CTU or VŠCHT is an unqualified person. I think he can teach these classes a lot better than a graduate of the faculty of education. What we're missing here is a combination of theory and practice, and that's what these people might lose. Many large companies have already gone directly into having their educational programs and schools, such as Škoda Auto or Pilsen Prazdroj. So maybe I welcome this point very much, and I certainly don't consider these teachers unqualified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u12	Mr. Secretary, hold on. [[Balashi]] Mr Havel came forward with the facts again. And you're applying for action, Mr. Secretary? [[Yes.]] Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u13	Thank you. The unqualified ones. Of course, the cooperation of experts from practice with schools is a thing that works for a long time. Maybe we can still develop this. However, we look at qualified teachers, those who control, when I say it a little bit maybe, who control the teacher's craft. One thing is our professional qualifications, that we know the field we teach, and the other thing is that we know how to teach it to children or students or pupils in high school. That's exactly what we should make a very good distinction here. During those three years, when these people, which we consider to be unqualified from this point of view - please, not really because they are not experts, but because we need to ensure that they are also teachers - so, of course, during those three years, they have the opportunity, and this is what they are systemically counting on, to complete their pedagogical education, the craft to actually learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will now speak with effect. Please. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: I just want to thank you. I don't think matphyz or science school graduates are unqualified either. The qualifications really concern those didactic procedures. And I can even add that even at the Faculty of Science or at matphyz, didactics is taught, and very well. So I think that we are absolutely in agreement on this, and especially in some fields, some of the proposals, we should, of course, take advantage of the experience of these people. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u15	Thank you, Minister. I have an application from Mrs Dražilová, who I do not see here, so her application is failing. I will now return to the participants in the debate. [[Mr Vondrák is reporting for the floor.]] That is probably where you then, Mr Member, signed up for action and Mrs Dražilová is registered there. Just hold on one second, please. Mr Vondrák, with the facts. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u16	Thank you for the floor, very briefly. We need to tell each other what the conditions of expertise, pedagogical knowledge are, within the entire education system. This means, what the lower education is - that is, you have kindergarten, primary school, first degree, and then you move to the higher schools, that is, second degree, secondary education and higher education - so there is an increasing need for expertise. Unlike, let's say, the lower degrees. So I think we have to take it this way, not demagogically, that everyone has to be teachers. Because I'm a university professor and I don't have any pedagogical education. When I did an anonymous evaluation, I went to college as one of the best. So we have to say that we just have to use what I think we often lack, common sense. I think the director is the one who is essentially able to judge this, where expertise should prevail over the didactic one. So, in my opinion, it's just a matter for the director to judge, and in my opinion, that's how it's conceived under the law. That's a yes for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with one more factual fact, Mr Berki is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we have been having a discussion here that has been going on for a long time and always succeeds in the relationship between this pedagogical and professional education. Please, let's not lower either. They both have their representation. By the way, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports addresses this matter to some extent as a regulator because it sets the conditions for, for example, accreditation of study programmes leading to teaching, where it sets the ratio. Obviously, these conditions will change. I think it's definitely in time, because the discussion is going on, but please don't lower the pedagogical-didactic part with the teachers, she's an integral component in all stages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mr Klíma, I will read the apologies. She apologizes to Jana Berkovcová within 11 hours without giving any reason, Richard Brabec all day - health reasons and Richter Jan all day for family reasons. It is now time for the debate, Mr Klíma, to be properly signed up for. Mr Kettner will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, are to change what is not working or outdated or asking for additions. In the case of Law No 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers, in my opinion, the school's long-term director is about supplementing the provisions that we lacked as teachers and directors, an ad accompanying teacher - stating the teacher. There are studies proving the need for high-quality teaching students' practice in their decision to pursue the teaching profession even after graduation. The situation in schools is that a student takes up one of the experienced educators, mostly doing well, but let's face it, no one has ever taught us how to effectively guide future colleagues, how to give them effective feedback. I feel a great role here for the faculty of education. It is one of the ways to get the principles of modern pedagogy into all the choir rooms, among all the teachers. The same applies to the position of a teacher who is to attend to a graduate for two years. No one doubts that the incoming doctor, for example, works under the supervision of an experienced colleague. However, no one wonders that a graduate of the Faculty of Education has been able to solve very serious situations since the first day without any previous experience. You don't mind until it's your baby. Ad class teacher. In the post-covide era, even more than ever, it shows how important quality work with the class team is. A long time ago, a class teacher is an organizer of a school trip or a fundraiser for a theatre performance. The teacher is the one who helps our children create a safe and stimulating environment in the classroom and helps to build healthy and functional relations between pupils. Here too, no one has ever taught this teacher. Of course, the enlightened school management ensures that class teachers do not cook from water and are adequately trained in these skills. But it is right to ask by law that class teachers have a duty to control and apply the above skills. About entering unedagogically... or teaching uneducated people into the field. One of the most controversial points in last year's amendment, which failed, and this year's discussion confirmed this, was to allow people from another practice to enter the teaching profession. I thank my colleagues from the YES movement for joining us and for confirming that this point is well intended in this novel. Of course, every director wishes to have ten candidates from whom he can choose in the need to fill the required accommodation. I wouldn't want anyone to experience the despair of the director when he just can't get the teacher he wants. Therefore, let us give the Director the opportunity to accept a non-educed education under clearly defined conditions, of course with the obligation to supplement his pedagogical education. Let's trust the principals that they're not gonna put any dilettante in front of the students. And I add that I wish nothing more than to use this paragraph, as my colleague Havel has already said, because the faculties will offer us enough teachers of mathematics, physics, computer science and so on. The amendment to the Education Act, which guarantees teachers the level of salary, should also contribute to this. I understand the objection that this will be the only profession to use such benefits. However, let us add that no other profession requiring higher education has been so long-term underfunded, which has also led, among other things, to the fact that a large proportion of high-quality graduates did not consider a teaching career precisely because of their low pay grade. The last two years, when the teacher's salary increased, the interest in studying at the faculty of education increased despite the fact that it still does not reach the average level of higher education. As I mentioned in... or, as they say, or mentioned in the news report, last year this point was strictly related to tariff tables. This year it is different, this year there is talk of the amount of funds. In practice, this means that we strengthen the powers of directors to reward the true leaders of the congregation with a different amount. The tariff and over-the-counter ratio is shifted over time. It used to be 90:10 %, today there is no exception of 80:20 per cent depending on the type of school and we should be directed according to my ratio at least 75:25. Before the election, we said, "Let's trust the directors, they know their teachers best." And the government is reporting this in its programming statement and 130 percent. If we finally want to shift the perception of the teaching profession as a prestigious profession, and we have a long way to go, the level of salary, quality studies and quality practices are only a functional condition as a set of conditions, not individually. Believe that the proposed points lead to the goal that we all wish our children from the department to be accompanied by education - I repeat, accompanied by education - motivated and successful people. In conclusion, let me express one wish. And if you've heard my story before, I'm sorry, but you'll hear it again. On my trip to Denmark, I asked one of the Danish seniors what university they were heading for. He said, "I'd like to go to teaching school, I can't get there, so I'm going to law school." This dilemma of a Danish grad student tells of everything, the prestige of a teaching profession in Denmark. I wish the same dilemma not only to Czech seniors, but to all of us and especially to our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, before Mr Kettner comes forward, I will read the apologies. Richard Brabec apologizes, all day - health reasons, Aleš Dufek from 12.15 hours - working reasons and Richter Jan all day - family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Berki will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u22	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be extremely long. I suppose I could be expected to perform on this novel. Of course, I welcome the amendment to the Education Worker Act as a educator. There are some points I agree with, but I have one problem with this law. I would like to make an example of my colleague, through Madam President, my colleague Haas. That was a perfectly professionally prepared law, consulted, discussed really with the professional public, those involved. All amendments have been discussed again, they have been implemented there. And only when the law was, I can't say exactly perfect, maybe there'll be a little thing in practice that needs to be fine-tuned, but I believe that the law will work as a whole thanks to this approach. Unfortunately, as far as this novel is concerned, I just don't see her this prepared. The amendment was submitted in the last parliamentary term. She didn't pass. Now he's presenting himself again. There are some positive changes, but some of the fundamental issues have simply not been changed. I'll start with the commendation first. This means that I certainly welcome positively for me that the novel is trying to somehow focus on the preparation of the early teachers, and so on. I totally agree with my previous speaker, that's great. As far as the finances are concerned, I also completely agree.I just find it a little strange that, at the moment that teachers' salary conditions can improve voluntarily by raising our hand for some amendments, we will not do it, and now we will put it into law. So we're forcing ourselves, if we didn't do it voluntarily, we're not going to vote on it now, and it's going to pass as law? [[9.40 hours]] Second thing. I was told there wasn't a hand up for it, because the finances aren't. Now all of a sudden, we're sure they will? When the money's gone and it's in the law, what are we gonna do? So I'm saying, I'm positive about the finances, but I'm kind of looking a little further. Next thing I know, the directors... that it's gonna be great, that high-quality teachers get extra money. But now, in approving the last two budgets, all the steps have been taken to make sure that there is no money for the rewards. So it's gonna be nice, it's gonna be fine, I'd really love it, if the teacher, who's just doing the basic, isn't trying to do it, so let him do it for the base. A teacher who devotes himself to children even in his spare time, afternoons on weekends, get really a lot of money to prove that the maximum work for children, that it even pays off from this point of view. So, yes, the directors would like to reward, but they don't really have anything left. More of my comments. As for the unqualified workers. Given how long I have worked in this education, as in many sectors, it is from wall to wall. I experienced a situation when suddenly it was announced that anyone who did not have a faculty of education would simply not be allowed to teach and have a certain time frame for it. So I had a colleague who retired for two years and applied to the Faculty of Education and studied those two years. She said she wasn't even interested in getting ready for the state's office, that she just had to put up with two years of retirement so she wouldn't just come in right before she retired. And we now had a huge time frame to systemically adjust education so that we could have enough qualified teachers. It didn't happen. Yes, I can imagine a professional in high school subjects. I can imagine, and I think it'll be positive. But we've got some inclusions at primary school, we've got kids with different specific disorders and so on. Yes, they have teaching assistants at their disposal, but in some cases you plan to take them away. It would be ideal if these children had a special educator who is a professional who knows exactly how to do it. As a educator in certain situations, I'm not ready to work with these kids. Okay. The fact that I'm that educator helps me somehow. But I can't imagine very well how - yes, a math professional will teach mathematics, but I can't imagine how he can cope with these children without education. It's just gonna be a problem for me. Next up, I'm sure I like the position of the teacher, accompanying the teacher, anchoring the class teacher. I'm sure I like that. It's great. But I don't understand why it's legal. School psychologists have been tested for 15 years. The testing has its meaning. Set the parameters to just make it work. Now we're going to put these positions right there, and what if it's set up by some-- we're going to find that it's not working completely, so it's going to have to change? Well, then we're gonna have to regulate the whole law. Why not do it the way it is normal, in the form of a decree by the Ministry of Education or government when it will work, it will be legislatively enshrined, but the moment I find out that it doesn't work in any way, so in this case we won't have to have the complicated legislative process to regulate the law, but will the decree simply be amended? It'll be easier, it'll be faster. And as for... I keep hearing here that it's backed up by the general public and so on. When I looked at who didn't agree with all this - the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education, the Czech Moravian Workers' Union... I'm here - I've got it here - I'm not gonna read it to keep you from doing it. I've got one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine organizations, training organizations that disagree. So I'm wondering which professionals we have left here who agree unconditionally with this amendment. This means that I am not opposed to the amendment itself, I welcome it, but I am very sorry that such an important law did not come here to the House in the same way as, through Madam President, my colleague Haas, when it was indeed alienated. So I think that accepting something where there will definitely be a lot of amendments and adjustments, so I think that's a step in the wrong direction, and for this reason, I suggest that the press bring 289 back to the petitioner for revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President Excellent with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u24	Thank you. I just wanted to respond to that last remark by Mr Kettner, through you, to the process. Well, my colleague Haas here has submitted a relatively brief amendment to the law. On the contrary, I am glad that such a fundamental amendment to the law on teaching workers is not written by Members here in the House. As much as I believe that what was prepared by fellow Haas and Janda and Šimek and others was very well written. But such fundamental laws, or amendments to laws such as this amendment on pedagogical workers, are supposed to be created in a team of experts and with the background of legislation, in this case, in Karmelitská, i.e. the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. On the contrary, this is the right procedure, and not that it will arise here in the Chamber of Deputies. It's just a little thing to explain, and then I'll comment on the other things in my contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I'm just going to read the order of factual remarks. First, Mr Havel, then Mr Šimek, Mrs Nováková, Marek Výborný, if he wants to speak again, Petr Gazdík, Mr Klíma and then Mr Kettner. So you know when it's your turn. So now, Mr Havel. And before I give him my word, I'll read an apology. Jiří Havránek apologizes all day for family reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u26	Thanks for the word. I will simply respond briefly to the question of who the amendment to the law has been or has not been discussed with. It is, of course, that education concerns us all. 250,000 people work in schools, a little bit more. We've all been through them, we've got kids in schools. That means finding a complete social consensus here is probably complicated. Nevertheless, I think that this amendment is successful because, for example, you mentioned, Mr Kettner, through Madam President, the opposition of the deans of the faculty of education concerns precisely, as I mentioned at the outset, a somewhat problematic provision for recognition of qualifications for three years. Which I really personally see as a patch that is transitional, which should simply not be systemic, but that is all we have to do right now. And one more thing I'd like to touch, and that concerns the salaries. Certainly in the current situation in Europe, the financial situation, or the economic situation of our state, as our colleague Výborný mentioned, we have found the means for increasing the salaries of non-teaching staff. However, it is now a matter of priorities. And setting 130 per cent systemically in the law means that from 2024 we can count on these expenses, we can just prepare for them, and so also parametrically set up the state budget. That means this makes sense to me. And it also calms me down, and I'm not worried that the money won't be found after that, because it's just two years ahead of schedule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Šimek is now registered with the facts. Mrs Nováková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u28	Thank you. I would also like to respond, through you, Madam Vice-President, to Mr Kettner's speech. I think that on the school committee we have discussed for a long time that the main objective is to maintain the quality of education. I think that's the thing we're pushing across the political spectrum here. [[9.50 hours]] Recently, our colleague Vondrák informed us about the trip in Finland and about a certain quality that we would all like to see in the Czech Republic. If we want to achieve this, we must raise people who will educate our children. You know for yourself that college studies last at least five years, and it is good for high school students to see today that there is a long-term trend to support teachers in education. You said yourself that you are a long-term educator, so you know how pay in education develops, that it is, as you well said, the situation from wall to wall, the changing of political Garnitures changes the support of educators. That is why I think it is a good thing that the level of salaries is firmly anchored in the law, which can be a long predictability for the early students of teaching faculties and a great effort to start making the quality of Czech education move significantly further. So I'm saying that this will be enshrined firmly in the law, and we won't always wait, teachers, for what political guarantee will come and which area will be supported in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u29	Thank you. Mrs Nováková will now speak with the facts, prepare Marek Výborný if she is still interested. Yes. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to add to what the previous speaker, Mr Šimek, said, and I would like to follow up on this debate about anchoring pay sessions directly in the law, as well as the introduction of an experienced teacher who will watch over an early teacher. For me, both of these things create the predictability of the environment. Our goal must be for people not only to graduate from the Faculty of Education and to get a Master's degree there, but to go to those schools. That's why the predictability is extremely important. I would just like to remind you that the reality of our education is still such that it is, say, a gender-absolutely unbalanced environment. There's a dominance of teachers' wives, which is an absolute disadvantage for an average gifted boy. So it is the predictableness for students who would like to - I now have a lot to appeal to - men who would like to study and become teachers, and not only to graduate, but to go to that school. That's important. And then there's another thing. The teacher who presents an inexperienced educator is the first step towards this. We all know that we have a great task ahead of us, and that is to work out a career order carefully. And this is actually the first step. And debates with teaching faculties, that's a very dynamic matter, because we, who are in schools, tell them that they are preparing future educators badly, and they are convinced that they are doing it well. [[Time.]] So this debate is still going to happen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr. Výborný and Mr. Gazdík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u32	Thank you for the floor. Don't smash it. Mr Kettner, through Madam President, you mentioned here that it was not discussed with the professional public. Then I have to say no to that for our government coalition. First of all, the law went through two years of discussion in the House where you didn't sit, your colleagues at your club did, some of them. One thing at a time. Sophomore. When our government, and Minister Petr Gazdík, made it his task, as Minister of Education, that it would be the first crucial thing the Ministry will deal with, it again went through a professional opponent, because it turned out that the crisis of not approving the law at the end of the last parliamentary term was a chance to add some essential things to it, and I will then talk about it, which was not in the original version. And only here in the House I organized two round tables this year, on May 17 we also discussed with your appointed representatives of teaching faculties just the neuralgic section 9a and this is the education of teaching staff, a week ago we had a debate here over the positions of listing and accompanying teachers. I'm sorry you weren't on either round table, if I'm not mistaken, because you could have been involved in the expert debate. Different other platforms, because they are open round tables, participated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u33	Thank you. Mr Gazdík, Mr Klíma, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u34	Madam President, fellow Members, I would very much like to turn against the words of one of my previous speakers that the law has not been discussed enough. The law had a good basis in that last term law, which did not pass, and that is why six months were discussed in order for the Ministry to settle all the comments of all. And it wasn't easy. It is extremely interesting that in that list, which Mr Kettner named, which I would proudly call a list of Czech schoolmakers, which makes education more likely to resort to Marie Terezie's education than to 21st century education, there are institutions with which it was discussed and which have somehow ceased to apply their fundamental remarks and promised to support the law, such as the Czech Moravian Trade Union or the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education. As a result of the discussion with them, some of the paragraphs were changed in the law and their comments were accepted. The fact that a law of this kind will never be discussed in a way that everyone likes is a simple fact. I'll give you an example of clinical logos. The business of clinical logos will always be defended by clinical logopers and will not want school logos. But we're here to fight primarily for children, because children's speech levels are getting worse, clinical logos are often waiting for half, three quarters of a year, and the result is catastrophic. So please do not pursue the business or other media interests of some groups, but have the interests of Czech children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u35	Thank you. He will now speak with Mr Klíma, Mr Kettner will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm just going to respond quickly to my colleague Kettner, through you. Your comparison with Mr. Haas' law really limps. The NSA is without any ministerial support from the Ministry, it was created as it was created, and we thank you for complimenting it. Thank God, the law on teaching workers was established in the Ministry and was really consulted for six months, said colleagues, and I will not repeat it again. And the three-year obligation to complete my pedagogical education, and thus, it's as if to allow the entry of pedagogically unqualified colleagues into the teaching field until then... We merely codify the state that is now, no one wants it. And I'll just give you a specific example from the principal's office. At this point, when you sit there as a mathematician educated musician, a pedagogically educated musician, and a mathematician who doesn't have a pedagogical education, you have a duty to take that musician. Maybe it's a little demagogically built, but that's just the way it is. And we say, Directors, we trust you not to employ a dilettante and to put a man in front of those children who fits the field. And that statement from the deans of the faculty... I respect them very much, but again - deans of faculty-educated teachers have a monopoly on bringing educated teachers behind departments. We say 20 years, teachers are few, especially maths, physics, computer science, so the monopoly, when you have it, you fill it. And that's not happening. I'll take it a little bit that it's pressure on them to think about whether students really go behind departments the way we want them to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I'm going to read the list of actual notes. First, Mr Kettner, then Mr Rais, Mrs Bělohlávková and then Mrs Zajíčková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u38	Thank you for the floor. I don't know if those two minutes are gonna be enough for me, because I've had a little bit of a storm coming on me like I'm some heretic trying to take out Czech education. First of all, I reserve some comments that I want to defend someone's business here. If anyone here is defending someone's business, they're some other five-calice colleagues, because they're defending some nonprofits who have such amazing ideas as that teachers cancel their cabinet so they can get closer to their kids. Then we'll soon have a Bonfire full of teachers completely burned out. That it's not meant to be graded that children are only to learn what they think is appropriate. The basic parameters especially - I'm talking about basic education now - are always the same: read, write, count, communicate in the collective. And it doesn't matter if the kid learns the letter on the tablet, or if he writes on the paper with a goose quill. So be careful with that. [[10.00 hours]] Some darkenings of Czech education - mostly those organizations bring together really don't... I'd say most of the educators. So they're dark? Then try telling them face to face. So I'd beg for that. As to the fact that we here, Members, should write this law. I didn't say anything like that. Of course I expect it from the Ministry. I assume the Ministry employs the experts. And it's nice that it's discussed in some way when it's not implemented. So I can discuss, I can promise mountains of mines. If there's no effect of working with it in any way, then it's just a waste of time. And yes, I was in Finland, and I loved it very much. And that's where it's about teacher prestige. So there's a completely different case, there's a question of teaching faculties, preparing those graduates to have such prestige and such status, those teachers to actually make it work. But unfortunately, that's not in our country, and it's a long run. So much for the shortcut, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u39	Thank you. Mr Rais will now make a point of fact, and Mrs Bělohlávková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u40	Hello. I am glad that the previous speakers from the coalition spoke of quality, because I think that this is an extremely important matter and it is a political thing that we can definitely agree on. And now the question is, why, essentially, deans of the faculty of education have more or less a negative opinion here on this material. My answer is that they are afraid that the quality will go down by more or less the whole accreditation process, which I want to talk about in the main contribution, will be spread out. It's not even about the money, it's just that there's stuff to be done by the faculty of education, or college, and what to do by some... I'm not gonna say "non-production," "profit-making," "profit-making" or "profit-making," "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or "profit-making" or Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u41	Thank you. It is now Mrs Bělohlávková's turn to comment, and then Mrs Zajíčková will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, they appear here as a pediatrician who, I think, has quite a lot of experience with dyslalia in children, and I really have a very pressing need to stand up for clinical logos and to maintain speech therapy at a level that deserves it, because at the moment a similar model exists towards kindergarten schools, and I am sorry, but it does not work. So it happens to me that children who are two to three years in the care of the logopedoes in kindergarten, after three years, end up with a clinical logopedo, and fix what was supposed to be fixed three years ago, is always much more complicated, more demanding, and it doesn't always work out. And another thing is the overlap with other expertise, such as phoneists, ORL doctors, neurologists. And I'm afraid the school's logoped won't be able to handle this overlap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u43	Thank you. In fact, it is Mrs Zajíčková's turn to prepare Mr Berki. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u44	Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk here, and I will allow myself to make a brief comment on some of the opinions here in relation to the qualifications or the lack of qualifications of higher education teachers. I'll speak clearly from practice. I've been headmaster for 15 years, and I know how difficult it was, and it's still hard to get a qualified, good teacher today. And my colleagues - I was also a councilman through education in Prague 5, so I had contact with the directors, our experience clearly speaks of the fact that the faculty of education does not guarantee quality training for this profession, and, on the contrary, there are times when a well-educated person comes who, for example, goes to ski courses, to camps, experience with raising children, has the education of children, and if he shows interest, we should not prevent him from doing this, because sometimes he can be a better teacher than he is fully qualified. And we really do have that experience. And what else has to be said. Today's legislation allows unqualified teachers to employ unlimited, for an unlimited period of time, this in a). And for b), the unqualified teacher may not even have a higher education, which is what changes this amendment and makes it much tougher. Thus, although we will allow an unqualified college student to be taught, we are limiting him to a period of three years. So I wouldn't see it as black here as it is sometimes presented, and sometimes the devils really paint on the wall because, on the contrary, this amendment tightens up and regulates the unqualifiedness of teachers. They'll only be able to teach for three years, they'll have to complete their education, and they'll have to be college students. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u45	Thank you. Mr Berki will now take the stand, and then it will be Mrs Válková's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'd just be a little emotional. In my opinion, the emotional output of my colleague Gazdík would be a little bit right in saying that I hope that he does not think that the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education is darkening, that it was in the context of Mr Kettner's speech that the law was not discussed and compared it with the Act on promoting sport. A little comparison, but it's not correct. Firstly, the debate on this amendment has been going on for quite a long time. The result of this discussion is also some adjustments, which I will specifically talk about in my speech. But at the same time, let's say, and it has also been said that there is no absolute agreement on all these paragraphs and adjustments, which is probably hard to achieve. The question is whether the opposition to the amendment declared in a letter from my colleague Sárközi was to the old version, or to the current version, in which there are already some modifications. First of all. And secondly, maybe there's a conflicting position in terms of individuality. It almost sounded like the associations and organizations were against the whole novel, but it has to be said that the reservation is always against specific points, okay? So I'd just take it back to the specific points that I'm going to be doing in my longer performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u47	Thank you. Mrs Válková, Mrs Hanzlíková, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have the ambition not to use the time of two minutes, I will see if I can do it, but because the previous speaker here said what I would like to draw attention to. The associations don't say the law's wrong. They really only go into specific comments, at least I read it this way, and so I strongly support the amendment for us. And those corrections that aren't irrelevant, and I see that I'm gonna need those two minutes. For example, with regard to school logos and so-called clinical logos - I say this intentionally, so-called - there I think that Mr Vondrák and I have reached a certain compromise or perhaps not a compromise on the basis of many interviews with these professional professions, but a solution, but we will keep that until second reading. So I think-- yes, I'm sure we need to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u49	Thank you. It is now Mrs Hanzlíková's turn, and then Mr Klíma. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly return to discussing school logos and also speak here from the practice of a man who worked in school counseling for 15 years. I really don't want us to generalize here in any way and talk about school logos like they're negative because they're an individual. They are people, and in every area we find excellent, average and unfortunately bad. But for myself, I have a very positive experience. And it is very well to associate the care for the child of a clinical logoped and then at the same time of the school, because, as has already been said here, clinical logoped does not have such time possibilities, while school logoped does, so the frequency of child care there is much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u51	Thank you. Now, Mr Klíma with a point of fact, followed by Mr Kettner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. There's one more thing, a really small thing about teaching faculties and their deans. I see a great opportunity in this novel for the faculty of education. I don't want to talk about the education of students who are in college right now, but we have an army of 150-160,000 cantors outside the departments. And this amendment is just through the accompanying, and therefore mainly stating teachers has the option, giving space to teaching faculties to get the quality of modern education to the choir rooms. We're talking about quality. It's supposed to be about the quality of modern education. And this is exactly the opportunity for the faculty of education. It is actually a good thing that the debate is going on and that this topic is opening up: that teaching faculties should be exactly what we want from them - the bearer of the quality of modern education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The last one, with a factual remark, is Mr Kettner. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u54	Thank you, Madam President. I only have two notes. Firstly, I would like to thank my colleague Berki, through Madam President, for the clarification. Exactly what he said, that's what I meant. I didn't say I didn't want the novel. I want it, too. Yes. So thank you for making it clear that you've made my thoughts clear. You specified it, and that's exactly what I meant. And as for improving the quality of teaching faculties, if we do not approve of funding, increasing the funding of universities, we will still be in the circle. It's been dropped here since my previous speakers. It is important to prepare graduates of teaching faculties. And if the teaching faculties are underfunded enough that some teachers prefer to teach in high schools where they are better rated, then unfortunately it will be our godly wish. I really wish that even teaching in teaching faculties would be prestigious so that the best of the best are there. In such a moment, of course, we will also have quality outputs, because we will also have quality graduates. And I think that this is the right way for our education to start to work the way we all want it to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u55	Thank you. We will now return to the duly signed up for the general debate. Mr Berki will appear, then Mr Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u56	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I will begin with the last part that does not concern the whole novel, but actually we often revolve around it here. I just want to point out that future educators, therefore, are not only prepared at pedagogical faculties as part of the undergraduate preparation. Even for high school teachers, it's a lot more in non-teaching faculties. First of all. Secondly, teaching faculties have long been involved in the debate on reform of undergraduate preparation, and they are taking this constructively, albeit cautiously. Then again, I want him not to get into a general discourse like some sort of narrative that teaching faculties are the ones that are holding something back. It's not true. And teaching faculties have long sought quality education. She may seem to be a sort of discourse between some progressive and conservative wing. I think it's more excited and careful between the wing. I consider myself to be more of a supporter of the progressive line, but cautious at the same time. And from this...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u57	Ambassador, I understand that you want me to ask my colleagues to keep it down. Anyway, I think that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u58	I tried the same thing in class. When I stop talking, they, oddly enough, stopped talking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u59	Excellent. It's obvious you're a good educator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u60	So I'm going to try to look at the changes in the novel. In Section 7a, we break the limit between second and third grade qualifications, which might actually seem a little strange, but let's say that most of the teacher's study programmes, which are aimed at teaching for secondary schools, focus rather on teacher training for grammar schools. But we also have vocational schools and vocational schools in that third-degree article. And maybe the methods and forms are much more consistent with the second grade than those of high school. [[The speaker has silenced, he's browsing in his notes.]] Another... [[Reaction from the right: Noise again?]] No, no, now I have to get my bearings in the notes. [[Laughs in the hall. Let's hear it for a few Members.]] Thank you. The next paragraph is § 9a, which is probably the one that is, say, the most controversial. And even with him, I'm the most careful. Let's face it, this paragraph can transmit two completely contradictory signals, both inside and outside. Inside it may actually raise the question: I studied, he did not study teaching, and yet we are now three years in the same way. On the other hand, it can send out a signal: "Oh, the director doesn't just look at his diploma when he's admitted, but also at references, that means what history goes with me. It can signal out: anyone can teach. But at the same time, it can send a signal: the profession is open, but it has rules. Here I would just remind you that two changes were written in this paragraph after the debate, and that is the link to the relation of the disciplines and the explicit mention of the fact that this exception cannot be chained. It may also have an effect, however, in the sense that the school board, or the founder, will pay more attention to whom the director accepts, which I think may again reflect on quality. The objection is also sometimes in the discourse that we don't have a teacher's register, which means, basically, it can't be verified whether or not the exception has already been granted. But once again it may have the effect that the director will be much more interested in references from the previous assignment. Then we have § 18a, which concerns the school logos. It's starting to feel a little bit like the discussion is basically narrowing down to naming the position. Well, if that's the case, the discussion from my point of view could be relatively easy if no one is questioning the importance of that position at school. As my first question, of course, why is he removing himself from special educators from the logoped? And I see there, on the contrary, an opportunity to distinguish the school logo from the clinical logo. At the same time, we have § 22, which instead of a supplementary pedagogical study introduces the study of pedagogy and, at the same time, the possibility of accrediting itself outside of universities, which is one of those, let's say, controversial ones. I understand why there's this fear. On the other hand, in conjunction with the fact that only qualification and specialisation studies should be newly accredited within the DVPP, this gives the Accreditation Commission the opportunity to focus more attention not only on meeting the requirements for accreditation, but also on implementing and ongoing quality monitoring. However, what I consider to be crucial in this context is that the accreditation requirements for the study of pedagogy become closer to the requirements that are applied to the accreditation of standard studies in universities. Because if a university has to provide professors, professors, doctors to some extent, practice to some extent, expertise to some extent, then it is logical that if it is to be an alternative, then the alternative must meet approximately or analogically similar requirements. I understand the concern that these demands will be imposed by a sub-legal standard, but I would still be optimistic about this. Again I will touch § 24, where it is now said that accreditation within the DVPP will be limited to qualification and specialisation studies, which I think is a positive change, unlike my colleague Kettner, precisely because the accreditation committee will have more scope to really monitor the quality of the large study programmes under the DVPP. At the same time, it will open up, and the Minister has already said, the scope for choosing courses actually according to his interest, according to references, not only according to whether they are accredited under the DVPP or not, and at the same time we have agreed with our colleagues that we would like to add a point to this section 24, which would just indicate that there are more ways to supplement education on an ongoing basis, how to grow. [[10.20 hours]] At the same time, in § 24a, b, c, d I will mention briefly what other benefit this brings. Because here we anchor something that exists. We're not inventing anything new. And it is precisely that it gets into the law that I see it as saying that stating, accompanying as well as a class teacher are important elements of the career order. It's because it's in the law that it's not in the decree, that's how I perceive the signal in this direction. Although I have tried to mention the individual views here as someone who is a supporter of, say, a progressive but cautious stream, I ask you to conclude that we are releasing the amendment by first reading, because I think that we can do it between the first and second readings when you used the analogy with the Sport Support Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Rais will now appear in the debate, and President Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u62	Thank you. I'd follow up on the previous speaker. I think the same thing is that we still have to discuss in second reading the changelings that we've already put there, some of which we're going to put there, because it's really... Maybe we should tell strangers what's really going on. Two or three years ago, the accreditation took place by applying to the Ministry of Education, where the competent clerk took care of it, and basically the university was able to do additional pedagogical studies and could basically educate people in teaching studies. This suited everyone. They weren't... I don't know how long it's been, like, twenty-thirty years, basically at least fifteen years since I've been in office, so it's been going, and it didn't bother anyone. Now it comes here with this controversy, and as my colleague said, the proposal raises concern that it will turn out the way it has done many times, which means that instead of increasing quality, it will be about reducing quality. And now in this post, with permission, to which I will devote, among other things, to controversial Section 9, I will try to prove it. So if I go back to what I'm set up to do. Let me, in fact, also say a few words about the submitted government proposal, as the previous speakers have said, so have I. There's a line... For one thing, we had the opportunity to actually get acquainted with the proposal, or the basic features, at the meetings of the previous Chamber of Deputies, when we also raised some objections. There's been a refinement over the past two years. Of course, the proposal contains a number of positive topics - defining the role of a class teacher, a misleading teacher, the assurance of substitute teachers that they will receive a reward and so on. It's already been presented here, so I won't repeat it. But from my point of view, the amendment contains several problems that I have a problem with, so I cannot agree with. One of these problems is the disengagement of the accreditation process of teaching. I think it would be appropriate to remain here with the original definition of the old law, I mean the original one before the amendments, which means that the study of pedagogy means the education acquired by the study in the educational programme of pedagogy and which is accredited for the further education of teaching staff carried out by the university. So my point is to keep it in college. In my opinion, the eventual disengagement of the accreditation process presented by the amendment will clearly lead to a reduction in the quality of further education. If we apply this controversial Section 9a, there will be an increase in demand for relevant educational programmes accredited for further education of teaching staff, which could become an undesirable motivation for non-university organisations. The quality of these educational institutions cannot be controlled not only at the time of obtaining accreditation, but especially during the implementation of these programmes. By law, universities must prove their quality in the long term, including institutional, instrumental and, in particular, personnel background. In addition, unlike private business entities, they are not primarily motivated by commercial profit, which is to a large extent a guarantee of prevention of mass or formalised education at the expense of quality. The Ministry's proposal favours reducing the administrative burden for its own office to an interest in the continuous improvement of Czech education. Whether they're doing this intentionally or unintentionally, they're gonna relieve themselves of their duty to someone else who doesn't have to do it in the quality we're used to by the Ministry. A more viable solution could be to limit accreditation to an educational institution as such, not to accredit each educational event separately, since only an accredited institution, which achieves the necessary level of personnel and expertise, can offer educational events to ensure a high quality of education for teaching staff in general. We have seen the shift of accreditation processes to private business entities and their subsequent impact on quality reduction, and so far we have seen in practice in the framework of previously adopted laws in the House. I've been here a long time, and I remember right now, and I fought it unsuccessfully. The transfer of international accreditation processes, at foreign universities, is often talked about so-called validation, to Czech business entities in the case of studies, MBA, LL.M., MPA and other managerial courses, this transfer has clearly led to the degradation of these titles and, in particular, the process of the whole management education. I could do that as a person who has been teaching for over 30 years, and I've organized basically a lot of these programs, so I can tell you about that. Huge talk, just like that. Also, based on these experiences, I believe that the accreditation and evaluation of the quality of this supplementary pedagogical study should clearly remain in one place within the Czech education system, and this is the Ministry of Education. Of course, responsibility for the quality of supplementary pedagogical studies should remain only in public universities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Prime Minister Michálek has signed up with priority rights? Preferred or factual? [[Priority.]] Yes, please, you have the floor. Mr Jakub Michálek will speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u64	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, honourable Members, I have taken the liberty of speaking for the Pirates Club to convey our position. We consider this to be a fundamental proposal, which is why I am commenting, but only very briefly. We have that promise of stable money for teachers in the programming statement, and it is something that we are applying for, and what we would really do today, if we manage to approve it, and I believe that they have given a clear signal to teachers that the teaching profession will be more attractive in the future to attract other quality graduates who, for example, now decide whether to become a teacher or to go into another profession, because being a teacher is the life course that one chooses, and the effect of quality teaching that will manifest itself in the prosperity of our state, that happens after many and many years. Therefore, the stability of the whole system, predictability and attractiveness for teachers is so important. As the pirát with other parties, we have initiated a similar bill in the last parliamentary term, which is now reporting to the long-term predictability of money for teachers. We processed the proposal with CERGE experts, Dan Münich, Filip Matějka, and I would like to thank them. But unfortunately, in the last parliamentary term, the proposal, although we have spent very much time doing so, failed to reach the end. So I hope that we can fix this now, because obviously, investment in teacher salaries, in quality education, is one of the best investments for the state in the long term, according to the CERGE calculations. And it is not only teachers in primary schools and secondary schools, which are 90 000, but also about 30,000 teachers in kindergartens, because it is education at an early age that has a big influence on how one develops in one's life. So even in this area, the predictability is to be maintained. [[10.30 hours]] It was a great pity that during the last parliamentary term we failed to approve this for time reasons, and I would just like to thank you by concluding that we are having today's debate at a reasonable length so that we can make the first reading today. And I would also like to thank Minister Balaš for processing the proposal and ask you for his support at first reading, which will then allow you to deal with other matters in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Výborný will now be speaking in the debate, Mr. Vondrák will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u66	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, fellow Members, as Vojtěch Filip said here, I am the tolerance myself, so I have let my minor coalition partner go with the priority right, but I myself have entered into a general debate because I want to thank you for the debate that we are having here with colleagues from the opposition. I think this is an example of how a substantive debate should take place here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't want to repeat what's already been said here, but maybe I'll remind you of the things that haven't been completely pierced here and which are in the law. Of course, I think I might have said that in that factual remark, that the law, under the circumstances we know, and my colleague, President Schillerová, remembers it very well, ended up under the table at the end of the last parliamentary term, so it turned out to be a chance that we could actually add and complete some things there, and I am glad that the proposal, as it is drafted, fully respects the strategy of education policy, Strategy 2020-2030+, because, finally, our government has committed itself to this, both in the coalition treaty and in the government's programming declaration. When the teacher's salary was fixed here, I would perhaps be a little in response to my colleague Matěj Ondřej Havel, to remind us and the public of one thing. However, let us not live in the illusion that the quality of Czech education by snapping fingers will ensure an increase or fixation of teachers' salaries. Unfortunately, it's not like that. But it is, yes, and I totally agree with that and I have always supported it, it is an important certainty, it is a kind of stamp on the fact that we take education here regardless of our party shirts as a priority and that we want because the quality of education depends directly on the quality of the teacher, or the quality of the director, who should be not only the manager of his school, but also the one who gives the school a vision, a clear direction and who, on the very basis of that vision, is able to bring and reward the school, justly reward those teachers who are the key aspect of the whole educational process. The law, and that's what I want to remind you here, and it didn't quite come out here in the debate around Section 9a clearly, into the law, that's the difference compared to the last draft in the last parliamentary term, some important positions have been added, whether they're helpers, for example, school logos, but then the positions that are supposed to help the quality in schools, and these are the positions that show, respectively, accompanying teachers. Only to explain, accompanying the teacher is the one who will accompany the student of the faculty of education, respectively the faculty of the education teacher, during his professional practice. This means, it will not only be defined in the Education Work Act, but at the same time, and I think the Minister will confirm it, the Ministry is working on implementing regulations that will also address the question of the remuneration of those accompanying teachers, respectively, as well as the possible reduction of direct teaching obligations. All of us who taught or were school directors will certainly confirm that these are not often new positions. The sensible director already gave the new colleagues who came from college today, from the faculty, to someone who was supposed to take care of the new teacher, to give him feedback in quotation marks, to be a sort of supervisor of his first steps and weeks, months at the school, who was supposed to help him in the moments when he couldn't handle things during the educational process. So we're just here to define what already works in many schools, and at the same time we're going to put some rules on it, some order on it. And I think it's very important. The teaching teacher is then the one who will stand by the side, or rather behind the back of the new teacher, the educator who will come as a new educator to the school itself. So I consider it very important. Just as the class teacher's position was heard here. This is not only the one who controls the class book and attendance of his class, but if the teacher is to be the one who really cares about the class as such over the atmosphere in that class, then of course he must communicate with legal representatives, he must communicate with other teachers who teach in that class. It has to communicate very often with organizations outside the school itself, which is why it is good not only to define the position but also to evaluate it fairly. In the past period I have tried repeatedly, I am glad that we are actually getting there by this section 24d. This should also improve the environment in the classroom itself, so that it can develop relations between the pupils in the end. I think we can all agree here that building healthy relationships in the collective, not only in the school team, is very important for the positive development of the young generation, and it is the role of a class teacher that can play a significant role in this. Plus the last two notes. The one mentioned here in Section 9a. I welcome him very much. We're putting more responsibility in the headmaster's hands here. I think it's right and reasonable. Just as I have always been a fan of having the director have sufficient part of the above-rate salary component to appreciate his high-quality teachers, tow horses in that educational body that he needs not only to keep there, but also to appreciate their work beyond standard responsibilities, when he prepares pupils for various competitions, when they work with them in their spare time, when they can direct them, for example, to university academic workplaces, research projects and so on. This is very important for the development of the whole school, and the director is supposed to have the opportunity to really value these teachers. So I very much welcome it. It is in this section 9a that he is given the opportunity to accept the expert from practice. And I want to point out, contrary to the draft from the last term, these things here, I mean, just after the discussions with the faculty representatives, among other things, the Dean's Dean's Association of Education Faculties, they've actually changed that paragraph to the way we have it today. This means that it is clear here that an expert in practice must be with an education that corresponds, and I quote paragraph 1 of Section 9a, where the focus of his education corresponds to the nature of the subject being taught. So the kind of criticisms that sounded or sounded from some in the debate that people get to the schools somewhere off the street, who suddenly teach Czech language, mathematics and the like, are really odd. Just as there remains a condition to supplement your pedagogical education. So I think that there is clear evidence that there is no risk of a reduction in quality or resignation for teacher training in Czech schools. [[10.40 hours]] As for the school logo, I understand that we will not find an absolute consensus here in the House, I understand doctors who hold clinical logos, however, as I did - and I have devoted myself to this at many meetings with representatives of both groups, so those positions complement each other, but they cannot be replaced. The school logopede cannot replace the clinical logopede, and on the contrary, when it discovers that the logopedic problem with a pupil, whether in kindergarten or primary school, goes beyond the medical, medical, so then this pupil, the client, is sent to a clinical logopede. But if we resign as a school logo, I'm afraid we'll only cause the whole problem to get worse. I don't know if you're aware of this, but if I have the right information, the clinical logos in the Czech Republic are 74. I think we all understand that they can hardly guarantee that they will solve the whole problem of the logopedic flaws. So these groups should not fight each other, but they should complement each other and it will benefit the cause. So much for me very briefly. I thank the Minister for allowing us to discuss this law here now. I look forward to the debate on the school committee. We will certainly be debating the various amendments that are here or will be on the table, because there are some technical things that we already know about, which we will have as a government coalition ambition at second reading to correct and improve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, have a good morning. We will continue the debate. Mr Ivo Vondrák will be next, Mrs Renáta Zajíčková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u68	Good morning again. Ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said. I think you can totally agree with a whole bunch of things. Some things will still have to be done. I appreciate and appreciate the introduction of the concept of a teacher accompanying a teacher, a class teacher, because I think it can really help to adopt newly entering teachers into schools, because that is a problem. These studies show that it is the young teachers who leave early because they do not have enough money, but because they feel that no one is paying attention to them at the school. So I think these are the things I'm gonna agree with. I am also of the opinion that I have once presented here that an expert should not be underestimated in the teaching process for two reasons. First of all, we don't have enough teachers. About 6,000 teachers are missing, as I have read from my studies, and mainly teachers of mathematics, physics, information technology are missing. That means we are able to solve the problem temporarily in this way, but not only temporarily. I think everyone realizes that today's life is about lifelong learning, that there is a need for education. And I see it as very positive when people who are professionally qualified then make a minimum of education and will be able to teach in schools. So from this point of view, I see this not only as a transitional patch, to quote here, but I see it maybe as one of the possible trends that we should be able to use and show a little bit that we appreciate, for example, the older ones who are not, let's say, so creative, but are able to pass on their experience. There's no problem with that. I would like to say that I see this law as one of the next steps towards overall reform of education. We are still talking about reform of education. I admit I'm a little nervous when I hear we want to save some money on this. I don't think reform is about saving up for her. Reform usually requires extra money. And I will confirm that to reform the funding of education, which here in the House has been criticized, that it is wrong, that it is not a road, but it has proved to be a very good road, and it has proved to have helped schools. It helped above all quality in the sense that we have smaller classes today, teachers are paid, and that is something I want to say that we have succeeded in the past periods, and I think that teachers have also received the salaries they deserve. However, we must now say that education reform will bring great pressure not only on financial but also, of course, on education, on technical equipment of schools. But what is crucial is how teachers will be prepared to teach subjects conceptually differently than they have taught so far. That means it's really going to be about the essence of the thing, so let's just say it's not going to be an encyclopedic interpretation. It really means we need to educate teachers. That's where I think the expertise will play a very important role. Please, let's remember that. I take this as a call not for this law, but for the future, that we should really catch education and education reform financially, because we can harm ourselves in the future, and we will not have the money for that. What I think, and this is my life experience as a person in which the remains of a scientist remain, that things are to be done by doing what is called research scan, and I think that in this area we should learn from those countries that know best. It's been said. We had a very interesting trip to Finland. We visited the Ministry of Education, we visited Parliament, it means the Committee on Education, as we have in Parliament, we visited primary school, we visited scientific institutions, we visited the Faculty of Education of the University of Helsinki, and we collected all these things. It's a lot of materials. By the way, any one of you wants to take a look are available on the pages, respectively, on the school committee directory. And look at that, because there's a whole bunch of very inspiring things. Firstly, and that is what I would like to say here, although we have 130 percent of the average wage defined in this law, in Finland, teachers do not have 130 percent of the average wage. In Finland, teachers have a basic level, a lowest level, a below-average salary and a higher above-average salary. So it's not just about the money. It's about the prestige that teacher education has. It testifies that only 16 percent of students in teaching faculties will get to this study. So that's something I'd like to see with us. We just have to change that principle. Now, what's the cause of this? And it turns out it might be easier than we want to admit. It's about trusting each other. It's about trusting that teacher. By the way, the Fin don't even have a school inspection. The teacher is the one who really has confidence and tries to get to the children what he considers to be the most important, but the goals are defined by the national agency again, or basically leaving it to the teacher to get to it. I would love to learn from these things. It's nothing extra complicated, and it's not much different from our education system. I think you can adopt it. I mean take over. Not just adapt, but adopt. I think it has the potential. I'll be glad, I had a meeting the day before yesterday with the ambassadors of the Nordic countries, offering us that we could also go to Estonia. It's really worth seeing. You can't read it in the materials. When you were at that school where we were, they took the kids there, and the question was, "How do you like school? And the girl's answer was horrible. I like going to school. But with us? We're at the worst in the OECD. Kids don't want to go to school. By the way, I'm willing to say it now, when I came to first class and the teacher then asked if there were any of the kids who wanted to go home, I raised my hand that I wanted to go home. So I didn't like going to school either. But what's it in? We just have to say that the principle is deeper. In the end, school became my life's destiny. But what I'm saying is that these things need to be seen in a broader perspective. I would like reform to stand on trust. I think it would be a good idea if scientific capacities could speak into the reform, I think from technical subjects, because we really need to build this core's curriculum on expertise, not just didactic. But I don't want to underestimate the didactic one. Then someone has to be able to explain it to the kids, and they have to find a way to explain it. So I would like to say that I will certainly be in favour of moving this law forward, and I think my colleagues have also moved on with this law. I think the context, too, is that it's connected to what we did in the area, and I think we've done our homework in the first place, so I could say "A" with an asterisk, but I'm not gonna overdo it. So it's number one. I think it is necessary to follow up on what has been done well, and now to continue the reform. Because I think it's different from other schools as a force ministry, because it's about our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u69	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I note one point of fact with which Mr Matěj Ondřej Havel will speak. Mrs Renáta Zajíčková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u70	Thank you. I'll just briefly respond to my previous speaker. I, my colleague, through the Vice-President, very much agree with you and I am pleased to hear that we all see this as one of the steps of truly systemic reform of our education. However, I cannot fully agree with your view that the paragraph that we are still mentioning here, three years for unqualified teachers who may be in schools, that this could be a permanent solution. I believe that we must not resign from ambition in order to have schools that are truly full of qualified professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u71	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mrs Renáta Zajíčková to speak in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u72	Good morning again. I can see that I'm probably the last registered debater. For this reason, I will actually try to summarize what the amendment to the Education Worker Act actually brings. I think there's been a lot going on here, but in my opinion, we haven't really looked at the novel at all by the impression of the pupil that this novel actually brings to every child in that school bench, every pupil in that classroom. If I ask myself what such a student expects from his teacher in school, he will certainly expect a teacher who will be educated, who will be funny, who will of course know his field of study perfectly, but will also be able to discuss things that take place in society with the pupil. He'll keep tabs, he'll have perspective, he'll be, like I said, even fun. Of course, he'll be able to respond to any situation that might happen in that class at the moment. This is what I think the amendment can bring this expectation to pupils precisely because it opens up here to the director the opportunity to accept people who are unqualified, educated people, albeit without qualifications, as has already been said here several times, with the duty to acquire this qualification within three years. Since school experience clearly says that people who come from other disciplines are not just purely educated educators, sometimes they enrich not only the pupils themselves, but also the educational corps, their colleagues, bring new suggestions, bring new experiences, and so on. So, as I said here today once, this change will certainly be in favor, or it can be assumed that it will be in favour of our pupils, provided, of course, that these unqualified people complete their education and this obligation will be there. Like I said, kids really don't care if their teacher has a teaching degree or doesn't. He judges the teacher according to completely different criteria and standards. So that's what I think is, first of all, the child's perspective is that he's going to be looking at a person in a class that he can respect and recognize. That this will actually increase the attractiveness of the profession itself if the pupils respect the profession. As for teachers, what this amendment brings to teachers. So it brings many positives to teachers, whether it's anchoring the position of a class teacher. It's been discussed here, too. Until recently, the school teacher has not actually been legally anchored anywhere, although every school teacher works, exists, fulfills an unmistakable and irreplaceable role. Not only is he, as has already been said, the organizer, but he must be a great psychologist, he must be a good communicator, he must be a mediator. There is really a lot of expectations for him, and there is a need for him to meet many skills. So the fact that this amendment anchors the position of a class teacher actually gives the teachers some confidence, increases their attractiveness, and certainly gives them some stabilization. The position of accompanying teachers, that has already been said here. For teachers and directors, but now primarily for the directors, it's very important because it can actually have one motivational role, it can have one motivational element for those teachers. Because those experienced teachers who are good teachers have skills in relation to their colleagues, they can actually find some self-realization in these positions, some self-application, and it can actually increase the potential to prevent the burnout, which is also being discussed today. So the fact that I, as an experienced teacher, can perform a college student, the fact that I, as an experienced teacher, can be a lecturer, can give me some confidence, confidence, it can actually raise awareness of my position, of my role, perhaps in a given school. Of course, the employment of teachers on average salary in the Czech Republic is also a great positive, which brings stability, certainty, attractiveness to schools. Of course, a greater choice, a greater possibility of study providers for teachers, is also certainly a great advantage. They will not only be able to resort to teaching faculties, but they will also be able to choose from other providers. So the competition that is brought into this is certainly also a positive benefit for teachers. Well, when I look at the role of director, it's also said here several times that actually this novel...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u73	Absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to keep the room down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u74	The amendment to the Director increases the tools for the management of the teaching body, for its stabilization, for increasing its attractiveness. In fact, the school principal will be able to work much more with the organizational schematics at the school, have anchored positions of individual teachers, and will actually be able to manage the educational process much better. It is certainly a strengthening of the director's powers and a strengthening of his position, which is certainly very desirable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u75	Colleagues in the center of the hall, I ask you to really keep your voice down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u76	So that the headmaster of the school will be made clear that he will have the opportunity to assign a accompanying teacher at the arrival of the student who is preparing for the profession, the fact that he will have far greater powers in relation to the teacher, but also the fact that the headmaster of the school will have to cooperate with the teaching faculties is certainly a great asset to the principal, and, as I said, it certainly anchors, strengthens his position and anchors his position as a leader. So if I were to conclude this: both school directors and teachers, I think, are waiting with great anticipation for this novel. We have been promising it to them for a long time and I think it is desirable that this amendment be adopted, approved as soon as possible and effective from the next school year. If I were to conclude completely, what this amendment brings. It brings stability for teachers, directors, for university students, it brings some certainty, attractiveness, but certainly also simplification in terms of some administrative processes. Importantly, it follows up on the government's programming statement. So we are doing what the coalition government is committed to. I would, of course, like to conclude by thanking everyone, both the Minister and all the Ministry officials, but also my colleagues, both from the coalition and from the opposition, all the professional platforms, all those involved in getting feedback on this amendment. I think this amendment has been discussed in professional circles and is very well prepared. We all know our future is in our schools, our children. It is therefore important to take steps to improve our education so that their graduates are more competitive on the labour market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u77	Thank you, too, Madame. We have therefore exhausted all those entered into the debate. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u78	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would just like to ask in the general debate one thing that I think the school law is related to, because we all know that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u79	I'm sorry. This time, in the left side of the hall... in the left side of the hall, I'm going to ask for silence... Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u80	Because everything starts and ends with money. You know, we have been working very hard in the past term to raise teachers' salaries. And we approved the budget for 2023 in the Karlovy Vary Region last week, and I was very surprised that the amount that the Ministry of Education sent to the Region is exactly the same as it was this year. This means that in the budget for the Karlovy Vary Region, for example, it is 4 billion 800 million, and for 2023 we also have 4 billion 800 million. So only if it is possible, Minister, when you speak and answer all the questions that have been raised to this point, could you answer this question as well? Because if they are to increase their salaries to educators from January 1st, then what are they going to raise when we get the exact same amount of money in the region? Or if you're gonna send any more funds? I certainly don't need to remind you that practically the funds will pass through the regions, because the regions will then send the funds to kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools they set up, youth homes and other school establishments. But I was very surprised. I have to say, I've asked the Council and the Education Councilman about this, and I haven't been able to answer that, so I'd really like you to answer that question, Minister. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u81	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question. I just need to clarify whether you're thinking of this year's resources again or next? To the next one. These funds are distributed automatically according to PHmax, depending on the number of pupils in those schools. I don't know if the number of students has decreased, but I'm sure we've been adding. It's all over the approved budget bill. But I'm sure I'll look into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u82	Thank you, Minister. At this point, no one's logged in. So I ask you once again if anyone is reporting from place to place to debate? I see no one, I end the general debate. I want to ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final word? Please, Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, I would like to thank you all for a very constructive debate. It is evident that the education and future of the Czech Republic is an interest of all our Members without distinction of political affiliation, across the political spectrum. And I just hope that we continue to be equally constructive in the second round, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-001-013.u83	Thank you, rapporteur. You want the final word? It's not like that. Since there has been no motion to return or to refuse, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. [[Screams from the diaper that the proposal fell.]] I'm sorry, I'm not marked. This means that there was therefore a proposal in the debate to return the proposal for completion. Thanks for the heads-up. I'll take a vote. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll check you out. I'll ask you to come forward again. I'll read an apology. From 10:30 to 18:00 today, for medical reasons, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová apologizes. Well, I'm gonna rephrase the motion I'm gonna put to the vote. The application for repayment to the applicant for completion has fallen. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 68, 140 Members are registered, for proposal 11, against 126. I am of the opinion that this proposal has not been approved. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Committee on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 69, 142 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 142, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. I ask, do you have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? I do not see any proposal, so there is nothing to vote on. There was no proposal to shorten or extend the deadline. I thank you and end the discussion of this press. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
