ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, as amended, and some other laws /German press 175/ - First reading Again, this proposal will be presented by the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u2	Thank you again for your word. I will have an opening speech very short, because this is quite a well-known text, because it was discussed in the last term, albeit as two prints, but it was not possible to discuss it until the final, or conclusion. The main objective of this Act is to adapt, to the extent necessary, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 in the EU Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, so-called Eurojust. I think that's enough for an introduction. We've really talked about this a lot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u3	I thank the Minister for his introduction. Hello, everyone. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Ondřej Kolář, whom I do not see here. I don't know if he's anywhere near here or if we're gonna have to deal with the rapporteur's change. Mr Kolář has already arrived as rapporteur for the first reading, he will certainly introduce us to this press, and I ask him to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u4	I'm very sorry. In agreement with the Minister on this proposal only as the Minister has already said, it is a well-known text that has been discussed here many times. The Minister has already said everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u5	Thank you. Please take your seat at the news desk. I am opening up a general debate in which Mr Kohoutek and Mrs Lesenská came forward. The first speaker, Mr Kohoutek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u6	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unlike my previous speakers, I believe that this is a very complicated and important text, and we may have talked about it here in the past period, but of course we have a hundred new Members here, and I think it is necessary for them to get acquainted with the fact that I am our club rapporteur, so I will allow you to present my report on this press. The draft law which amends Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, as amended, and certain other laws, responds primarily to the first adoption of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2018/1727 of 14 November 2018 on the EU Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, so-called Eurojust, and on the replacement and abolition of Council Decision 2002/187/JHA, hereinafter referred to as the Eurojust Regulation. It also responds to the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2018/1805 of 14 November 2018 on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders replacing Council Framework Decision 2003/577/JHA of 22 July 2003 on the execution of freezing orders in the European Union and Council Framework Decision 2006/783/JHA of 6 October 2006 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation orders. In addition, it shall respond to the adoption of the Agreement on Trade and Cooperation between the EU and the European Atomic Energy Community, of the one part, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, of the other part, of 30 April 2021, in the part concerning the areas of judicial cooperation in the provision and confiscation of property and the surrender of a person under an arrest warrant. It also responds to the judgment of the fifth Chamber of the Court of Justice of the EU of 29 April 2021 in Case C-665/20 PPU, which shows that it does not comply with European rules such a provision of the law of an EU Member State which provides for a reason for refusing to exercise international judicial cooperation in criminal matters as mandatory if that reason is formulated as optional in the relevant EU legal act. It also responds to the requirements for unification of the international judicial cooperation procedure in criminal matters and the elimination of shortcomings identified in the evaluation of the existing application of the legislation contained in the Law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. In addition, the proposal responds to the identified shortcomings related to this issue, in particular the shortcomings which prevent damage to the effective use of funds resulting from property criminal sanctions or the shortcomings of the fact that, according to today's regulation, the disposal of fallen or seized property cannot be suspended, even if the decision on the basis of which the property became State property is subject to review under exceptional remedies. The proposal also makes amendments designed to align the arrangements where appropriate, both to the EU Member States and to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and to other foreign countries. The European Judicial Cooperation Unit, i.e. Eurojust, was established by Council Decision 2002/187/JHA of 28 February 2002 on the establishment of a European Judicial Cooperation Unit, i.e. Eurojust, in order to strengthen the fight against serious crime. This Decision established a Union institution with legal personality to support and improve the coordination and cooperation of the competent judicial authorities of the Member States, in particular in relation to serious organised crime. The Eurojust legal framework was subsequently amended by Council Decisions 2003/659/JHA and 2009/426/JHA. Following more than 15 years of operation of the Agency, in order to exploit all its potential and to extend its scope, a comprehensive adjustment has been adopted, in the light of Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 TFEU in the form of its regulation. Accordingly, that Council Decision 2002/187/JHA replaced, with effect from 12 December 2019, Regulation 2018/1727 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the EU Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, i.e. Eurojust, and replacing and repealing Council Decision 2002/187/JHA. The Eurojust Regulation introduces the following main amendments: it introduces a management model with a view to improving the operational activities of the Agency, strengthening the operational powers of the national members, defining further the status and powers of the national members, including the adjustment of their term of office, modernising the structure of Eurojust, which comprehensively regulates its structure, including the composition and powers of the College, establishing an executive board with management functions to assist the College in enabling more efficient decision-making on non-operative and strategic matters, and then regulating the role of the Administrative Director. It also regulates the Commission's representation in the College and the Executive Board, distinguishes the operational and management functions of the college and of the national members, regulates data protection rules following EU data protection regulations, introduces new provisions governing annual and multiannual programming, enhances transparency and democratic oversight by involving the European Parliament and national parliaments in the mechanism of joint evaluation of Eurojust's activities. The national regulation implemented in our legal order by the Council Decision on the establishment of Eurojust is contained in Title II of Part Two of the ZMJS Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u7	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but the noise level is really high. I don't want to interrupt you, but I'm really going to ask my colleague and colleagues for some peace, possibly moving their conversations into the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u8	Thank you. This is a comprehensive regulation that affects many areas that are newly explicitly regulated in the Eurojust Regulation and, for example, provisions relating to the term of office of a national member, its representatives and assistants, the possibility of their re-election, the competence of a national member, the competence of the national coordination system of Eurojust, the cooperation of Eurojust with other institutions and bodies, the mutual exchange of information or the protection of personal data. The regulation contained in the Eurojust Regulation is directly applicable to the Czech Republic and therefore takes precedence over national legislation, and therefore similar regulation within our legal system is duplicated and redundant. For this reason, it is necessary to make legislative technical amendments in the framework of the adaptation of this Regulation to the national legal order and to delete those provisions, which are already contained directly in the regulation, from the law. [[10.40 hours]] For this reason, it is necessary to make legislative technical amendments in the framework of the adaptation of this Regulation to the national legal order and to delete those provisions, which are already contained directly in the regulation, from the law. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 8 allows national legislation to confer additional powers on a national member to carry out his duties. It is therefore proposed to amend § 29 of the ZMJS, which contains a list of these powers, so that the scope of the powers enjoyed by the national member does not change in the future. In the present regulation, the order to secure the case in Sections 226 to 238 of Law No 2277 is amended in relation to the Member States of the European Union - also only a Member State. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, as amended. The provisions in question are implemented by Council Framework Decision 2003/577/SW of 22 July 2003 on the execution of orders to secure property or evidence in the European Union. In the first part common provisions are defined, in the second part the procedure for sending a freezing order to another Member State is adapted, in the third part the procedure for recognising and executing a freezing order in the Czech Republic and in the fourth part the questions relating to the application of regression claims in the event of damage caused by the issuing of a freezing order are modified. Those provisions shall apply only to matters which, albeit indirectly, are linked to criminal activity, i.e. an instrument to commit a criminal offence, to the proceeds of a criminal offence or to the equivalent of such return. [[replacement value]] Those provisions therefore do not apply to the provision of property for the purpose of satisfying the claim of the injured party pursuant to Section 47 of the Criminal Code, to ensuring the execution of the cash penalty pursuant to Section 344a and the following criminal rules, to ensuring the execution of the sentence of the forfeiture of property under Section 347 of the Criminal Code, or to ensuring the execution of the property prevents parts of property under Section 358b of the Criminal Code. In order to recognise and ensure the execution of a freezing order, the competent district attorney shall be the district court in proceedings before the court, the local jurisdiction being primarily based on the place where the matter to be secured is situated. Articles 278 to 297 of the Law on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters lay down provisions relating to the procedure in relation to other Member States when sending and recognising and enforcing decisions imposing a forfeiture or preventing property or property. The provisions in question implement Council Framework Decision 2006/783/JHA of 6 October 2006 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation orders. In the first part, a specific procedure for the recognition and enforcement of a so-called confiscation order issued by another Member State is provided for, i.e. within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The second part then regulates the opposite procedure, i.e. sending a confiscation order issued by a court of the Czech Republic to another Member State for the purpose of its recognition and enforcement. In Part Three, certain common rules on compensation for damage caused by the issuing of an incorrect confiscation order are then amended. Those provisions concern decisions requiring confiscation of instruments or proceeds from criminal activity or confiscation of equivalent value for proceeds from criminal activity. According to Czech criminal law, it is a decision imposing a penalty for forfeiting the case, forfeiting the substitute value, protective measures prevent the case and prevent substitute values. This Regulation shall enter into force on the (d) point (iii) of the Framework Decision cited in conjunction with point (iii) of Article 2 (2) of the basic Regulation. 3 of Framework Decision 2005/212/JHA creates an obligation for the Czech Republic to recognise and execute decisions imposing so-called extended confiscation, according to Czech law it is to prevent parts of property. [[which has been replaced by Directive 2014/42/EU]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) point (iv) of the Framework Decision cited above gives the possibility - not the obligation - to recognise and execute decisions based on other reasons for confiscating property in another Member State. The recognition and enforcement of such a decision will always depend on the law of the executing State whether it permits the forfeiture or prevents similar types of property in similar cases. For example, the punishment of forfeiture of property in Czech legislation, which permits the forfeiture of the entire property of the perpetrator, is not much like that in many other Member States. The competent district court shall be responsible for the recognition and enforcement of the confiscation order, giving priority to the criterion of permanent residence or residence where the person is staying before the criterion of the location of the property of such person when determining the local jurisdiction of the courts. Since the arrangements contained in the cited Framework Decisions governing judicial cooperation on 19 December 2020 have been replaced directly by an effective Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders, it is necessary to limit the scope of this Regulation by continuing to apply only to those Member States for which the regulation in question is not binding. Specifically, it is Ireland and Denmark. Following Brexit, the United Kingdom is undergoing a classic legal aid path. Furthermore, it is necessary to adapt the cited regulation to the Czech legal order to the extent necessary in order to ensure its smooth application. In particular, it concerns the establishment of competent authorities for the procedure under the Regulation, the clarification of certain procedural procedures, and in particular the establishment of national procedures for the purpose of compensation for injured persons and the sharing of property. It is also necessary to specify how to proceed if another Member State issues a confiscation order for a certain amount of money. These procedures are further explained in the internal regulations of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and in the methodologies of the Ministry of Justice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The condition is that the freezing order or confiscation order be issued in the context of criminal proceedings. Procedure in criminal matters is an autonomous concept of Union law interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Union. This term applies, in accordance with point 13 of the Regulation, to all types of freezing orders and confiscation orders issued following criminal proceedings, not only to orders falling within the scope of Directive 2014/42/EU. The freezing orders and confiscation orders issued purely in the context of civil or administrative proceedings, without reference to criminal proceedings, shall be excluded from the scope of this Regulation. According to Czech criminal law, a resolution on the provision of a criminal instrument or proceeds from criminal activity pursuant to Section 79a of the Criminal Code will thus fall within the scope of the regulation, a resolution on the provision of a substitute value pursuant to Section 79g of the Criminal Code, a resolution on the execution of the penalty for the forfeiture of property under Section 347 of the Criminal Code and a resolution on the execution of the execution will prevent parts of property under Section 358b of the Criminal Code, issued by a prosecutor, President of the Senate or by a court. Furthermore, the penalty of forfeiture of property under Section 66 of the Criminal Code, the penalty of forfeiture of the case under Section 70 of the Criminal Code, the forfeiture of substitute value under Section 71 of the Criminal Code, prevents the case under Section 101 of the Criminal Code, prevents substitute values under Section 102 of the Criminal Code. and prevent parts of property under Section 102a of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u9	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues again to keep your voice down so we can hear your performances better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u10	Thank you. As regards other Member States, orders relating to instruments of crime, proceeds from crime or substitute values for them are typically sent for recognition and enforcement. In the event of the adoption of Directive 2014/42/EU, orders relating to so-called extended confiscation powers under Article 4 (1) (a) of Directive 2014/42/EU may also be expected to be sent more frequently. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Although the order itself is the subject of recognition and enforcement, the regulation primarily envisages that Member States will only transmit to each other a certificate of enforcement or confiscation on a standardised form and only the obligation to obtain a translation is attached to it, which is considered sufficient to justify the recognition and execution of the order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The issuing authority shall also have the obligation to forward, together with the certificate, the original of the freezing order or confiscation or a certified copy of the freezing order, if it is transmitted to it for recognition and enforcement purposes. Such options will be used by the Czech Republic and will require, in addition to sending the certificate and sending the order itself, because the certificate itself does not have the form of the order, only describes what is stated in the order, which may be incorrect or contrary to the content of the order. It is not possible to recognise and execute an order which is linked to an intervention in the constitutional rights of a person, if its content is only known by the authority on the basis of a certificate, in particular in respect of the recognition of a definitive penalty. [[10.50 hours]] In some states, confiscation works by de facto creating a doomed debt to the state. That is, in the course of criminal proceedings, it is found, for example, that the accused has earned EUR 0,5 million in quotes, and the criminal court then decides that the convicted person has an obligation to pay EUR 0,5 million to the State. Such a type of confiscation order is not regulated in the Czech legal order, but under the regulation there is an obligation to execute it, so a procedure should be laid down as to how such confiscation order will be recognised and enforced. One possibility would be to turn such punishment into a cash penalty and then enforce it. However, such an adjustment would inappropriately eliminate the difference between a cash penalty intended primarily to affect legal property and the punishment of the forfeiture of a thing affecting property linked to criminal activity. In addition, it should be taken into account that a substitute sentence of imprisonment in the absence of a cash penalty could only be imposed if another Member State allowed such an option, thereby weakening the effectiveness of enforcement. In addition, in the case of a cash penalty, conditions are laid down for the termination of the effects of the penalty other than the forfeiture of the case. In addition, this penalty cannot be imposed in the event of a cessation of criminal prosecution due to the disease of the perpetrator, while Directive 2014/42/EU requires that instruments and proceeds from crime be confiscated in such cases as well. Such an adjustment also does not address cases where the confiscation of property is directed towards a third party. Therefore, an adjustment has been chosen to treat such a type of confiscation order as forfeiting a substitute value or to prevent a substitute value from being forfeited or seized by assets replacing the original return or instrument of crime that cannot be forfeited or seized, which is a concept close to that type of confiscation. In deciding on the recognition and enforcement of a confiscation order issued by another Member State under provisions other than harmonised confiscation provisions contained in its legal order, it will always be necessary to consider carefully whether the conditions laid down in the Regulation are met and whether there is no reason to refuse recognition, under which recognition of the order would result in a manifest breach of a certain fundamental right set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, in particular the right to effective legal protection, the right to a fair trial or the right of defence. Following the first evaluation of the knowledge of the application practice, some practical problems arising from the application of the regulation contained in Law No. 59/2017 Sb. While these changes are not directly adaptation, they are closely related to the adapted regulation, as they contribute to its more effective application. The Agreement on Trade and Cooperation between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community, of the one part, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, of the other part, of 30 April 2021, entitled Cooperation in the field of law enforcement and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, also provides for certain issues of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, of the one part, and the United Kingdom, of the other part. The Agreement is an international treaty within the meaning of Section 2 (b). (d) the law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The provisions of the Agreement on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters are, in the vast majority, so-called self-executable and shall be applied preferably before the provisions of the Act on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters. National implementation in the law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters does not require the provisions of the Cooperation Agreement with Eurojust governing relations between Eurojust as an agency of the European Union and the United Kingdom; mutual assistance which complements, on the one hand, the provisions of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union and the United Kingdom, on the other hand, the provisions of the 20th European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. 4. 1959, Additional Protocol to this Convention of 17. 3. 1978 and the Second Additional Protocol to this Convention of 8. 11. 2001 and apply directly and preferably before the provisions of the Law on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters. Otherwise, however, this is the case with the provisions of the Agreement on the Transfer of Persons, which do not merely supplement the extradition arrangements contained in the European Convention on Extradition of 13. 12. 1957, its additional protocols and the European Convention on the Repression of Terrorism, but replace the corresponding provisions of these conventions by a new institute - by handing over a person under an arrest warrant - which is similar to handing over a person under a European arrest warrant. In contrast to the surrender on the basis of a European arrest warrant, the transfer of a person under an arrest warrant under the Agreement commands them to be somewhat more free, thanks to the possibility of applying exemptions on the basis of notifications by the Member States of the European Union or the United Kingdom. It is therefore appropriate not to proceed in accordance with the provisions of Title II, Part Three, but to refer to the appropriate application of an amendment to the European arrest warrant, which otherwise applies only in relation to the Member States of the European Union. This adjustment can, of course, only be applied to the extent that it does not conflict with the Agreement, where, unlike the Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the transfer procedure between the EU Member States and Iceland and Norway, the Agreement is an international agreement within the meaning of point 2 of Section 2. (d) the law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters and its provisions are thus directly applicable, there is no need to adjust the various differences in the law compared to the regulation of the European arrest warrant. The agreement also contains an arrangement for judicial cooperation in the provision and confiscation of property. The vast majority of the articles in this title are directly applicable, but a certain implementation in the law requires Art. Article 667, which governs the sharing of confiscated assets between the United Kingdom and a Member State of the European Union, and Article 667, second paragraph The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. Article 2 (2) provides that no provision of Title XI shall be construed as allowing the total value of confiscation to exceed the amount specified in the confiscation order. On 29 April 2021, the fifth Chamber of the Court of Justice of the European Union decided to give a preliminary ruling in Case C-665/20 PPU, by means of the words "Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union'. Article 4 (5) of Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 on the European Arrest Warrant and the surrender procedures between Member States, as amended by Council Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA of 26 February 2009, must be interpreted as meaning that, where a Member State decides to transpose this provision into national law, it must grant the executing judicial authority some discretion for the purposes of deciding whether or not to refuse the execution of the European Arrest Warrant on the grounds set out in that provision'. [[Members point out that his speech is too quick to understand.]] Thank you. I'll try to be slower. The Court of Justice of the European Union took the view that the executing judicial authorities may in principle refuse to execute such an order only in the taxatically listed cases provided for in the Framework Decision. Therefore, while the execution of the European arrest warrant constitutes a rule, the refusal of execution is regarded as an exception which must be interpreted restrictively. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It follows from the caselaw of the Court that, in the context of the implementation of the Framework Decision, Member States have discretion. Member States may do so, but do not need to transpose those reasons into their national law. They may also decide to limit situations in which the executing judicial authority may refuse the execution of the European arrest warrant in order to facilitate the transfer of requested persons in accordance with the principle of mutual recognition as set out in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, where those reasons, which are not identified as compulsory grounds for refusing a European arrest warrant, are introduced into the legal order of a Member State of the European Union, it must, according to the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union, have a discretion on whether or not to refuse the execution of a European arrest warrant for these reasons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. They cannot provide that the judicial authorities must refuse to execute a European arrest warrant which falls formally within the scope of those grounds and cannot take into account the circumstances inherent in each case. The Court of Justice of the EU has merely commented on the interpretation of Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 on the European Arrest Warrant and the surrender procedures between Member States. However, the conclusions reached are of a more general nature and, therefore, all the European Union's rules on judicial cooperation and the relevant provisions of the International Judicial Cooperation Act have been revised, which govern the grounds for refusal of judicial cooperation or similar procedures leading ultimately to the absence of judicial cooperation. [[11.00 hours]] The legislation on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters has been set aside with effect from 1 January 2014 in a separate law. Since the entry into force of Act No. 104/2013 Sb. This has been the case for more than seven years. After this time it was possible to evaluate the functionality of the set system and identify its possible shortcomings. To this end, a working group consisting of judges, prosecutors and employees of the relevant departments of the Ministry of Justice was formed at the Ministry of Justice. Based on the work of this working group, several areas of problems have been identified. Most of the proposed changes that respond to the identified problems are rather of a partial nature, where it is proposed to adjust certain procedures in the context of international cooperation so that they meet the needs of practice more or to make certain provisions more precise so as to make their interpretation clear. These amendments concern, in particular, the arrangements for acceptance and the provision of assurances on reciprocity, the reimbursement of costs associated with unsuccessful transfer of persons, the way in which the costs of international judicial cooperation are reimbursed, the clarification of the obligation to obtain or submit translation of documents, including exceptions to this obligation, the implementation of the takeover of persons from a foreign State or from another Member State or the transfer of such person to another Member State. In addition to these partial amendments, the proposed amendment also brings a more comprehensive nature in the area of firstly determining the jurisdiction of the court in the preparatory proceedings, and secondly a simplified transmission and extradition. In order to determine the jurisdiction of the court in the preparatory proceedings. Under number 201/2016 Coll. The Constitutional Court's plenary decision of 19 April 2016 on the Rules of Procedure of the State Prosecutor, as amended, was announced. The proposal of the 27 Members of the Chamber of Deputies was rejected by the Constitutional Court. The subject matter of the examination of the Constitutional Court was the contested provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the State Attorney's Office, which address the issue of the nationality of the State Attorney. The Constitutional Court also dealt with these aspects from the point of view of their interconnection with the legal regulation of jurisdiction of the court, in particular with the legislation contained in Section 26 of the Criminal Code. In this context, the Constitutional Court provided a constitutionally conformal interpretation of this provision and defined the criteria for determining the local jurisdiction of the District Court responsible for the preparatory proceedings. Application practice after publication of the quoted plenary finding, i.e. from 22. 6. It shall act in accordance with this finding, i.e. the local jurisdiction of the court is determined in accordance with the general legal rules applicable to the local jurisdiction of the court. However, those criteria set out in the judgment of the Constitutional Court cited are not satisfactory in the field of international judicial cooperation. If judicial cooperation is required in the Czech Republic, criminal proceedings do not run in the Czech Republic, therefore the criteria set out in Section 18 of the Criminal Code for determining the jurisdiction of the court to carry out an act when cooperation is requested at a stage in which preparatory proceedings are conducted in a foreign state are inappropriate, since they are designed in particular for cases where the offence is committed in the Czech Republic. In particular, the determination of jurisdiction of the court according to the residual criterion, i.e. where the offence appeared, is taken into account. In the case of judicial cooperation, this would be determined by the registered office of the judicial authority which has received a request for legal aid or a European investigative order. However, the jurisdiction thus determined by the court does not appear to be practical, because requests or decisions are sent by a foreign State in a number of cases to judicial authorities in Prague, which then forward them to the competent judicial authorities. In the vast majority of cases, the judicial authority responsible for processing the application for legal aid or for ensuring the execution of the European investigative order would be designated as competent for the execution of the act far removed from the place where the required judicial cooperation action is to be carried out. In view of this, it is proposed, for the purposes of international judicial cooperation, to establish the jurisdiction of the court to carry out acts for the purposes of judicial cooperation, where preparatory procedures are conducted in a foreign State, by way of derogation. Therefore, it is proposed to add, by way of derogation, to Part Three, Title I governing legal aid provisions laying down the rules for determining the local jurisdiction of a court competent to carry out an act for the purpose of processing an application for legal assistance by a foreign authority or ensuring the execution of a European investigative order at a stage in which a preparatory procedure is conducted in a foreign State. With regard to the issue of simplified transmission and extradition, simplified editions and simplified transmissions shall be adapted mutatis mutandis. In particular, the fact with the application of the simplified transmission provisions, which in practice is disproportionately more frequent than the simplified edition, shows that the existing legislation is applied very differently in individual regions of the Czech Republic. [[Experience?]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u11	Ambassador, I will interrupt you again. The attention begins to fade again, so I ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u12	Thank you, Madam President. While, in some regions, the State Attorney's proposal in simplified transmission is not actually submitted until after the end of the preliminary investigation, the transfer of which is concerned, pursuant to § 203 para. 7 of the Law on International Judicial Cooperation and in written form, in other regions, special forms of shortened simplified transmission began to appear, in particular where the person whose transfer is concerned has already given consent to the transfer during the detention session on the proposal for its introduction into provisional custody. In such a case, the prosecutor shall, orally, propose, in the course of this detention session, directly taking into custody or taking into custody, first of all, and after giving up the right of complaint, to convert the provisional link to the link of the transfer. Where, in relation to the decision to be taken in the transferor's custody or to the conversion of the provisional link to the transferor's link, the surrender of the right of complaint is made without it being possible to examine subsequently what legal considerations, in particular as regards the so-called unbreakable grounds for failure to surrender, the prosecutor or the court also followed, or why it was stated that there were no obstacles to the transfer in the present case. For this reason, it is necessary to unify this fragmented practice and to eliminate decisions that are ultimately unreviewable. The identified deficiencies cannot be eliminated by any other means than by amending the relevant parts of the law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u13	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up two factual points. The first of these has a Member, Zuzana Ožanová, who, however, withdraws it and rejoins after a member of the Taťána Malá first. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u14	Madam President, thank you. I come up with a procedural proposal. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the ANO club to Tomáš Kohoutek for his brilliant news report, unlike what his colleague from the TOP 09 Kolář showed here. I would like to propose an interruption of this point for ten minutes, for the reason that the rapporteur should be able to prepare himself and present us with a dignified intelligence report, not with reference to the fact that this is a widely known text. I would never have come to this counter with a factual remark if your fellow party colleague Jakob here recently criticized a colleague of the Constitutional Legal Committee Vondráček that there were no constitutionally-legal committees and so on. I'm not going to talk about what your involvement in the Constitutional and Legal Committee is, but I think you might be able to do a little bit of remedial by bringing us a dignified intelligence report here, not what you've shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u15	Through the President, next time I ask. I will ask for respect for the Rules of Procedure in place, through the President we need to address each other. However, it is a procedural proposal, I will call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I repeat that the honourable Member has tabled a motion to interrupt this point for ten minutes. I am merely stating that the entire meeting will be interrupted at 11.15 o'clock, just so that we know that this item will be interrupted during this meeting. I call on my fellow Members from the lobby to vote on the proposal. I'm registering an interest in checking out, which is why I'm going to ask you all to re-engage with your ID cards. Before my colleague returns, I will read some of the apologies that have run out. Apologizes to the Volný Member between 11 and 14 o'clock for a visit by the doctor, Mrs Andrea Babišová, due to the illness of the whole day and Mrs Urbanová between 10 and 10.30 and subsequently from 15 to the end of the day for working reasons. Given that the number of people present has already settled, I repeat that we are voting on a proposal to interrupt that point for ten minutes. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the motion? Who's against it? Voting number 124, registered 137, for 62, anti 65. The motion was not accepted. We are therefore continuing with Mrs Ožanová's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u16	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, I would ask perhaps if I could be heard...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u17	Yes, we'll ask for the peace of mind of a colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u18	You know, I'm a reporter for more press. We have a long discussion here about what the rapporteur's work is supposed to look like or not to look like. Today we have seen what the rapporteur's work is not supposed to look like. The rapporteur is obviously not familiar with the press, so I propose a change to the rapporteur. Obviously, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek is familiar with the content of the press, unlike the current rapporteur, and if the rapporteur does not want to work, then let him simply not do it and leave it to someone else because it was arrogance and contempt for this House, what he has demonstrated through the President, Mr Kolář.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u19	Madam, just to clarify, this procedural proposal is therefore a change of rapporteur to Mr Kohoutek, so that we know exactly? Once again, this is a procedural proposal. I will ask you to keep your voice down and repeat the proposal made by Mrs Ožanová, and this is a change to the rapporteur so that Mr Kohoutek becomes the rapporteur of this press. I see interest in the check-out, which is why I signed you all out. Please sign up with your cards again. And once the number of applicants has settled, I will begin voting on this proposal. The number has stabilized. Initiating vote on the procedural proposal tabled. I'm asking who's the rapporteur to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 125, 145 were registered, for 66, against 51. The motion was not accepted. Now, let's continue. The President of the Schillerová Club shall report with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. There wasn't a single suggestion. I think you have all witnessed what we have witnessed, the absolute preparations and the arrogance of the rapporteur. I think he's gonna have to get a chance to get ready, so on behalf of the club, I'm making a proposal for a break by 11:15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u21	The ANO movement club therefore takes a four-minute break until 11.15 hours. I will add the apology that has just come in, and it is from Minister Šalomoun, today from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. And since the break ends at 11:15 p.m. when the meeting is due to be adjourned, I will allow myself an organizational announcement. We will meet again in the Chamber of Deputies at 11.25 a.m., because at 11.30 p.m., we will launch another programme - the appearance of the President of Ukraine, Mr Volodymyr Zelenský, in front of both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in online transmission. Mr. Ambassador of Ukraine, Mr. Jevhen Perebyjnis, will also be present in the hall. In this context, I therefore ask you to take your seats in the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies at 11.25 pm. I would also like to inform you that, after the end of the online transmission, the Chamber of Deputies will continue the adjourned 25th meeting after a five-minute break, which is needed to switch technical equipment. I am now interrupting the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and at 11.25 I beg you to be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-003-024.u22	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the item, which is a fixed item.
