ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 97/1996 Coll., on the Protection of Hops, as amended /house print 138/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the Government's bill amending Act No. 97/1996 Coll., on the protection of hops. The aim of the draft law is to modernise the register of hops and its link to the control processes and to rephrase the requirements for the submission of applications for the inclusion of hops in the register of hops. The proposal will allow the Central Inspection and Testing Institute of the Agricultural Institute to carry out checks on hops for the verification of the information contained in the hop register, and to initiate the procedure for updating the official records if it finds non-compliance between the data contained in the register and the facts, as well as to facilitate the updating of the model documents needed to comply with the provisions of the Act by publishing them on the website of the Central Inspection and Testing Institute of the Agricultural Institute. The proposal shall also continue to adapt to the relevant Commission Regulation laying down detailed rules for the verification of hops and hop products, in particular with a view to anchoring the area for the verification of hops and hop products directly in the law, not just in the decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u3	Thank you, Minister. Please take your place at the news desk. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Karel Smetana. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, from the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Hops to the present day, there have been a number of changes not only in Czech agriculture, which have also affected the production of hops and which the law could not respond to at the time of its creation. This amendment is particularly necessary in order to preserve the variety identity and quality of hops. In view of this, it is necessary to modernise the register of hops and to maintain more detailed information including the composition of hop varieties. The exact identification of the hops on which the producer's declaration is based is also a basic condition for the verification of hops and hop products required by the European Union in its regulations. The aim of the proposed hop protection law is therefore, in particular, the need to amend the requirements for keeping hop records, including hops in the register, certification of hops, the need for control activities of the ÚKZÚZ in order to maintain quality production of hops and to follow up on the issue of Act No. 334/2020 Coll., amending Act No. 219/2003 Coll., Act on the Circulation of Seeds and Seeds. The proposed proposal does not foresee the negative economic or financial impact of the proposed legislation on the state budget and other public budgets. For hop producers, the proposal is a proposal to establish new obligations which they will have to fulfil, i.e. a higher administrative burden when submitting applications towards the ÚKZÚZ. For the above reason, this is considered desirable and necessary in order to ensure the quality of Czech hops and the quality of Czech beer. I recommend that this law be passed on to the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am now opening a general debate. Yes, Mr Kott reporting from his post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let me briefly introduce you to the position of the ANO member club. In some cases, I will probably speak of similar things that the Minister and the rapporteur have said, but in my opinion these are matters that are very important for hop growers, for control authorities and for setting up a system that we lacked or was not completely clear. The proposal continues to adapt to Regulation No 1 of the European Commission. 1850/2006 of 14 November 2006 laying down detailed rules for the certification of hops and hop products, in particular with a view to anchoring the area relating to the verification of hops and hop products directly in the law, not only in a lower rule of law. I have divided here the main objectives which, in my opinion, belong to the proposal. First of all, it's a modernization of hop records. These are newly defined requirements important for proper registering of hops following the modification of the verification process of hops and hop products. A recognised or standard rate must be applied to the new plantings and plantings of hops in hops, in accordance with Law No. 219/2003 Coll., on seed and seed circulation. The second such point is the modernisation of the linking of hop records and control processes. It is necessary to include information on the identity of the supplier of seedlings, whether within the Czech Republic or from abroad. The third point is the newly formulated requirements for applying for the inclusion of hops in the hop register. In addition to the existing requirements, the requirement for information on the planted variety of hops, supported by proofs of origin for plantings, must be amended. In essence, this point extends the existing register to important documents used by the supervisory authorities. The fourth point is the inclusion in seed plants missing in the hop plant, where it is the planting of more than 10 per cent of the original number of seedlings in the hop plant among the mandatory reported data. Here it is necessary to register and check also the subsequent changes that occur during the plantings of damaged hops, whether because of freezing or other force majeure, when the grower loses a full hop mill and there is a need to plant new plants in order to pay off the production of hops on the given parcels. The next item is the explicit anchoring of the condition - only hops from registered hops can be checked. This is a provision which is not in the current Law on the Protection of Hops and it is therefore necessary to maintain this information and be available to control institutions in order to ensure correct verification of hops. Another such point already concerns the control authorities and there is the authorisation of the Central Inspection and Testing Institute of Agriculture to carry out checks on registered hops, aimed at verifying the data contained in the hop register. There is a need for a clearly formulated authority of the Institute to enter the land of hops, and this has emerged from the practice of past years, when some hop producers questioned this right of control, and there was a situation that the inspection authority was not often allowed on the land and was prevented from checking as required by the law on the other hand. [[13.40 hours]] This shall be followed by the incorporation of the authorisation of the Central Inspection and Examination Institute of Agriculture to initiate the procedure for updating the official record if it finds non-compliance between the data contained in the register and the facts. Even this authority of the ÚKZÚZu was lacking in the law, and it is right in my opinion that it is newly anchored here and will allow the ÚKZÚZu to carry out the checks as the law commands them. Another matter relating to the central control and testing institute of agriculture in carrying out the control activity is cooperation with the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, which is the guarantor of the control when granting subsidies for hops production. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to extend the definition of areas in hops to the area of the harvest, because even this intention is not about anything that should burden hop growers to a greater extent and, on the other hand, clearly defines the obligations of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. Among the last things I have pointed out here is the updating of the provisions of the Act on the delegation of certain provisions from the Decree. These amended provisions are supplemented by certain obligations transferred from the Order to the Law on the Protection of Hops. Here I would like to emphasise one more issue, and this is the use of protective equipment in the cultivation of hops, where from the mouth of some members of the European Commission, great emphasis has been placed on ending the use of chemical agents or active substances for the treatment of hops, and it has not been possible for growers to use other products since they have not been allowed to apply to hops. There was a collision between the Central Institute of Control and Testing of the Agricultural and State Institute of Health, because both institutions were expressing one thing and they were not always able to find consensus between the needs of the grower in order to treat hops and produce quality raw materials, because they were strictly referring here to misunderstood by the State Institute of Health. These are, in brief, my comments on this amendment to the law, and I would like to support the release of this amendment to second reading for the membership of the ANO movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask... yes, the general debate is still being held by Mr Tureček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd just like to pause a little bit here from the point of view of... This bill deals with the registration of hop area, and I will have one question here for the Minister concerning the differences in registering and reporting of the vineyard area from the point of view of the Cadastral Office and from the point of view of registering how the hops are registered in LISP. I would like to start by saying that this is quite a significant difference, and I will look at history in terms of hop area in the Czech Republic. In 1871, for interest, a total of 5 300 hectares of hops were registered in the Czech Republic. During the period of the so-called first Republic, the hopper's acreage increased to 15,500 hectares in 1930. After World War II, this area fell again, when only 7 000 hectares of hops were registered in 1948, 9 000 hectares of hops were registered in 1956, and since that year there has been the development of hops, when 10 500 hectares were registered in 1993. Unfortunately, from this year on, hops have become a sensitive commodity in agriculture as other plant and animal commodities, and this area is constantly falling from the point of view of LUPPIS. In 2006, this decline was recorded by 50 percent compared to 1993 when it was registered in the Czech Republic in 2006 in terms of the structure of hops 5 500 hectares. Unfortunately, in 1914 it is already 4 400 hectares, so virtually another drop of about a thousand hectares of hops. [[2014?]] And here, in terms of structure, the Czech Republic is divided into three hop areas. It is the area Žatecka, which is the largest share, it is 77 %, it is more than 77 %, the area is 3 836 hectares. It is also a Úštěcká hopářská region with its 504 hectares, more than 10 %, and in Moravia it is a Tršická hopářská region with approximately 12 percent share, 625 hectares. And now to the difference, when LIPPIS records and records a total of 5 023 hectares of hops in the Czech Republic in 2013, while the Cadastral Office shows and records an area of 10 454 hectares in 2012, so almost once as much. It is quite a fundamental contradiction between the data reported by the Czech Republic's cadastral office, and further where it is shown by LPIS. So I want to ask if this amendment to the hop protection law, which deals with the register of hops in the Czech Republic, solves this contradiction and, if necessary, resolves the possible unification of the register between LPIS, which is used by the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Cadastral Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is reporting to the general debate? It's not like that. Since there have been no proposals that we should vote on, we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. And before we proceed to the vote, I will call my colleagues from the lobby and read the announcement - with a replacement card of 33, Mrs Nina Nováková votes. Once again, I will call my colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on the proposal for this proposal to be discussed by the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. We shall now proceed to the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 137, 161 Members and Members voted in favour of 145, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Yes, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u10	Good afternoon. I would ask the same as we had before, given that it is about the protection of hops and there are also protective active substances and chemicals, so I would also like to include the environmental committee as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-014-023.u11	Thank you. Anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. And we're gonna vote on that... Mr. Krejza, right? Yes, thank you. We will therefore vote on having this proposal ordered to be discussed by the Committee on the Environment as well. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 138, registered 160 Members, for 73, against 27. The motion was denied. This concludes the discussion of this point. And we're going to proceed to the next point, and that's
