ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u1	171. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of the Members in which they will perform and submit oral interviews was drawn, first of all to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic and then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. And so now I give the floor to Mrs Lucia Šafránková, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala, and I ask that Mrs Karla Maříková prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, even representatives of the professional public, for example in the form of the National Economic Council of the Government, strongly criticize the current settings by valorizing pensions, especially those of extraordinary ones. The SPD movement has argued the same thing over the long term. In its recommendations to your government, the National Economic Council of the Government clearly states that the current form of pension valorisation significantly harms low-income pensioners and continues to aggravate their social situation by increasing their percentage and thus the same size, which harms these low-income pensioners. This is unacceptable in general, and especially today, at a time of enormous increase in the basic needs of life. The National Economic Council of the Government, as well as the SPD movement, recommends you to amend this unfair system by valorising pensions and increasing pensions by the same amount of money to all its beneficiaries. Prime Minister, are you planning to increase, and when, as it was late yesterday, the basic pension component, which is the same for all of their beneficiaries and is currently 10 per cent of the average wage, i.e. CZK 3,900 per month? The SPD movement proposed to increase it by 3 percentage points, which is about CZK 1,800 a month more for our pensioners. When will this proposal be discussed? Would you like to take a quick look at him? What will you do specifically for low-income pensioners, who are one of the most vulnerable social groups, and an increasing number of people live in income poverty? How specifically and when will you help them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u3	Thank you. As I have already said, the Prime Minister is excused and will therefore reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days, which is true for all Members who will interpel the Prime Minister today. Mrs Karla Maříková, who has been drawn in second place, will speak with the next interview, and I would ask Mrs Pošarová to prepare herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, you and your ministers keep telling us that we have enough gas, but experts say otherwise. Energy expert Pavel Janeček said that if Russia turns off our gas, we simply won't have it. As far as mags are concerned, they're at least filling now. Prime Minister Fiala obviously has a bad advisor on this, said Janeček. He also said that containers are for balancing flexibility in the supply of pipe gas, it is not a pantry where you can get gas when you need it. Then what is it, Prime Minister? If we have enough gas, then I do not understand that there are measures taking place, such as the regulation on the heating of Minister Síkela, which has already been applied since the beginning of the heating season in practice, and that is obviously not all. I'm sure I'm wondering how it's gonna go if there's a crisis situation. As alarming, I consider a reduction in water temperature as legionella can already multiply when it is reduced to 45 degrees. So, Prime Minister, if we have as much gas as you say we have, then why measures and why restrictions? Not only does your comments on full cartridges not correspond to how they function physically, so you are opposed to the fact that we have enough gas, on the other hand we are supposed to save and keep ourselves cool. What's it gonna be like if there's a shortage of gas? Will you take responsibility and give your government a resignation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u5	Thank you and I will ask for another enrollment, and this is Mrs Marie Pošarová. And please have Mr. Sládeček prepare himself. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues. I have a question for the absent prime minister. Whether we're already pumping gas from the reservoirs, from the 240 million cc's we've bought there, because for the reason we turn off the gas, I have information that we're already drawing on it, so I'd just like to check it out. And, if necessary, whether we have purchased another gas for which there is capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u7	Thank you and I will ask Mr Sládeček. The next performer will be President Tomio Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, the owner of the energy group Sev.en Energy Mr.Pavel Tykač offered to the Czech Government in early May that it would supply electricity to the state in the amount of 3 terawatt hours per year, at a pre-war price. For what reason, Prime Minister, did the government not accept an offer for cheaper electricity? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u9	Thank you and I'll ask for another enrollment, this is President Tomio Okamura, and please prepare Mr Marek Novák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u10	Dear Prime Minister, your government is not secured with gas supplies for companies for the coming winter, coal supplies are waiting for up to two months, electricity, fuel prices and food prices are rising steeply, inflation is attacking 20 percent because of your government, and citizens have a legitimate fear of surviving the winter because of your government's inactivity. The government has no fundamental solutions, and the statements made by its members are confusing. The government is not thinking about our citizens, companies are failing, regions and municipalities do not have contracted energy supplies for schools, hospitals and homes for seniors for next year. And I ask you, question number one: why don't you resign and hold on to power like ticks when the vast majority of people no longer want your incompetent government, because citizens see that you can't solve the situation and you don't want to help people? Moreover, your government intends to owe our republic more than a trillion crowns. The Czech Republic is a state whose public debt is growing fastest from all EU Member States. Before the elections, your government promised, your government coalition, your coalition promised to reduce the public deficit and balanced state budgets. The state budget you're presenting here is unfinanceable because the state's planned expenditures are so high that the state is unable to secure sufficient revenue for them. So it's another line of government cynical and conscious lies. You don't cut unnecessary expenses, you continue to support benefits that are inadaptable, but at the same time, you spend outrageous money on unnecessary foreign contracts and so on. And I have question number two. Why did you lie to your constituents before the election, and now you're doing the exact opposite of what you promised about debting the state? And I also have question number three. Why do you not want to nationalize the CEZ parastate so that energy prices can be easily ceilinged and cheap energy provided for our citizens and companies? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u11	Thank you and please the next envoy, this is Mr Marek Novák, and please prepare Mr Koten. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr. absent Prime Minister, on 24 August, your government issued a dissenting opinion on the proposal to issue a bill amending the Payment Act. The point is that companies have a right to a bank account. Given the style of your coalition's work, this necessary bill will either not be on the agenda or you will reject it at first reading. In doing so, this adjustment is necessary and supports what your party's principle is based on - supporting the business environment. [[14.40 hours]] They are at the mercy of the multinational management of banks, which limit this part of the business in the Czech Republic within the so-called taxonomy. It is a misfire of the Czech Republic that affects both traditional manufacturers and companies that come up with modern solutions to the current cybersecurity threats, and if you do not have this information, please ask the Defence Industry Section, the Chamber of Commerce or also the Defence and Security Industry Association. By the way, the association also wrote this to you in January of this year. You know, you read their letter? This segment of the defence industry brings jobs in today's difficult times, thus making contributions to the social system, creating a taxpayer, and enriching the labour market. Movement in company accounts is also a means of minimizing the existence of finished money, tax evasion and various optimizations. Please stop it. Prime Minister, how specifically will you support companies that today form a solid basis for the business environment? Exactly how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u13	Thank you. Next logged in, please, and this is Mr. Radek Koten. I merely remind everyone that the Prime Minister is duly excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, the Czech Republic, as perhaps the only state in the European Union, does not have its gas trader, who would buy directly on the basis of a bilateral contract directly with the gas producer or with the gas supplier. It can be said that the monopoly supplier of gas to the Czech Republic, and this is also admitted by the German party, is Uniper. According to the Němec, it has been selling exclusively overpriced spot gas to Čech at spot prices for years. On this gas, this company is immensely rich, and as it has been found, the majority owner of this company is Fortrum. As I learned, this company is part of the so-called pension fund for Finnish pensioners, so our pensioners, who are now paying advances here, for example from 2,900 to 9,900, are going to Finnish pensioners. You, as the responsible prime minister of this country, should finally set up a national gas trader, not implement it through another company that has nothing to do with the Czech Republic, thereby reducing possible overpriced gas for citizens of this Republic, because I do not see the least reason why Czech citizens should pay these pensioners somewhere in Finland their pensions, which are somewhere 1,700 to 1,800 euros, when Czech pensioners have far less, perhaps 500 euros in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u15	Thank you. I ask that Mr Josef Kott take the floor with his intervention. The next performer will be Mr. Zlínský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, in August, the employment of the CEO of SZIF, Mr Martin Šebestyán, came to an end. The SZIF is located in a very difficult period, on Tuesday it passed the Chamber of Deputies Act on Agriculture and on SZIF, according to which aid should be paid from 1. 1. 2023. The Czech Republic still does not have strategic plans to meet Green Deal, SZIF is waiting to set up monitoring processes and evaluate steps to meet the European Union's objectives. It will be necessary to implement new systems for applications for several dozen aids, which means creating several dozen new government regulations and resetting the rules for individual aids. I would like to ask what was behind the decision to dismiss a qualified worker at the time of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the European Union, on which the previous ministers and the professional public had no comments. Prime Minister, is it possible to handle the above facts in terms of not suspending or delaying payment of aid? Is a selection procedure already drawn up to fill the position of Director General of SZIF, and if so, are the candidates already entered into this tender? And the last question: At what time will the new CEO of SZIF be appointed? I am aware, of course, that this issue is fully within the grasp of the Minister of Agriculture, but given that it is a very important position in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture is certainly coordinating his approach with you as Prime Minister of the Government. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u17	Thank you. Next logged in, please, and this is Mr. Vladimír Zlínský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, are you able to completely deny that some of the so-called misinformation that is attributed to Russia or the alternative scene is not spread by those who wish to silence the opposition by using under false flag operations, that is, false flag operations? I quote from Wikipedia: "The operation under the false flag is a secret operation conducted by a government, a corporation or another organization designed to appear to be carried out by someone else. False flag operations are not limited to military confrontation and may take place in the civilian sector and during a period of peace, for example in intelligence activities." End of quote. I am based on your previous statements that freedom of speech is an obvious part of this government's current democratic establishment with us. From my point of view, these activities or their cover, if these concerns were confirmed, could lead to the assumption that this could be a serious counter-constitutional act. I also wonder where the Garden of Freedom of speech ends and the tormenting misinformation hell begins. Without a clear definition of this interface, it is almost impossible to express itself freely, as there is always a risk of sitting on the better forces of hell. Could you please precisely and specifically define this interface to enable our citizens to express themselves without fear? In the meantime, I'm looking for him in vain, and I'm afraid you're trying to force a circle, or censorship freedom, into us with a misinformational narrative. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u19	Thank you. Mr. Aleš Juchelka, another enrollment, please. The next will be Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will intersect Prime Minister Fiala on the issue of population mismatches in the Central Population Register with the results of the census in 2021. This non-compliance has a specific impact on the population and, inter alia, on the payment of the benefit of state social aid - housing allowance - by understepping the administrative limit for the determination of the level of normative costs for the calculation of this benefit. Specifically, I mean the town of Karvina, 50 to 100,000 inhabitants. The results of the census are contrary to the reality of the basic registers with a difference of at least 300,000 inhabitants across the Czech Republic. In particular, according to the Czech Statistical Office, the number of inhabitants is 49 881 on 1 January 2022, but the population register presents the number of 51 866 inhabitants at the same date. Both numbers include foreigners as well. So the difference is more than 2,000 inhabitants. The impact on the citizens of Karviné means that they have reduced their housing allowance by up to CZK 1 000 per month from 1 July 2022. They are mainly low-income people, especially low-income seniors, without the possibility of achieving an additional benefit. The Ministry of Labour applies the calculation of the population of the municipality from the data of the CSU, not on the basis of a statutory obligation, but only because it does so traditionally, because it has always done so. I'm asking if it's possible to let go of this and start focusing on just one number. Last but not least, the current data from the population register should be applied to the allocation to municipalities from shared taxes according to the RUD as well as to the calculation of the State's contribution to the performance of the delegation to municipalities. It is also the cities of Olomouc, Teplice, Bílina, Litomyšl and so on. Since this is a cross-cutting problem for the Ministry of the Interior and so on, more ministers and Customs, I am addressing you in this matter, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u21	Thank you. I'll have another enlistment, Mrs. Lesenská. Mrs Balaštíková will then appear. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u22	Good afternoon, Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My first interview today is directed at the Prime Minister and will concern government communication - how individual members of the government are able to communicate with each other and thus on the outside. After all, you are our government, and I would expect some coordination of statements from individual members. After all, you criticized the chaotic expressions of your predecessors on every possible occasion and criticize them to this day. As a political philosopher, you no doubt know that citizens conclude a so-called social treaty with the state and thus transfer part of their rights to the government. The theory of the social contract is based on the modern concept of the state, as we know it today. Of course, its responsibilities - responsibilities and responsibility to citizens, to their problems and concerns that the government should address - are also linked to the rights transferred to the government. I have already stated this in the distrust hearing to the government on Friday. Chairman TOP 09 Markéta Pekarová Adamová basically argues that the government is merely to be passed on to citizens' rights, while the responsibilities and responsibilities towards citizens are indifferent to the government. By saying that the government is not to care for people, that they should take care of themselves, it confirmed that. How can people themselves change the enormous increase in energy prices, fuel, food? How are people supposed to interpret her statements about selling another state property? So I could continue the list of uncoordinated communications. You guys don't discuss important matters with each other? Or does everyone in your five-calice just do what they want? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u23	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mrs Balaštíková. I would just like to point out that Mr Zlínský is taking back his intervention. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u24	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Prime Minister, on Saturday 3 September 2022, there were major demonstrations in Wenceslas Square against your government, where the number of protesters was 70,000 according to your estimates, and according to estimates and foreign media, there were 120,000 people. Yet you said about these people, our citizens, who have called this demonstration, that they have been called together by the forces that claim pro-Russian orientation, are members of the Russian Fifth Column, are close to extreme positions and are against the interests of the Czech Republic. I would like to know, and, of course, also the citizens, from what you have drawn in your statements and who has reported to you that this demonstration has been convened by someone other than the citizens of our country. I believe that as Prime Minister of our country, you should speak decently and humbly to our citizens, and above all, you should not underestimate their fear of the current expensive and energy crisis. On the contrary, I would like to see that you are finally showing us the way to address the current situation. I would like to know whether in your statements you will really focus on the official reports submitted next time and whether you will continue to ignore the demands and fears of our citizens. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u25	Thank you and I will ask for another enrollment, and that is Mrs Štefanová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, my intervention on you is to ensure that our health care is not compromised. With enormous price increases and inflation, the cost of operating our health care industry increases. This year's costs are two to three times that of last year. Energy costs in health have increased by up to 100 percent. We're still hearing that energy won't be enough. Available health care in the Czech Republic is an absolute priority for SPD. Hospitals and other facilities in this case cannot do without the help of the state. Minister Válek said that the government is looking for a solution to provide enough energy for our health care, but more or less only talked about faculty hospitals. He also stated that it is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Industry. I think it is necessary to address this across ministries, whether health, industry or the Ministry of Finance. I don't think it's time to just look, but it's time to act. So I would like to comment on how the government has progressed in solving this problem and ensure that the functioning of our health care is not compromised and that it will also help the state of health facilities outside the faculty hospital? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u27	I would like to thank and ask another envoy, and this is Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I'd like to talk here about the ceiling on energy prices, because it's the evergreen that keeps coming back. As an opposition, we have been proposing this since spring that it is necessary to do so, but now it comes to our words. However, you may have understood this with the President of the European Parliament, Mrs Leyenová, or whatever her name is, you have taken it a bit wrong. Because, as I've learned, you want to put a stop to the raw material that's cheap in some way, the one that, even before Nord Stream 1 stopped, you could basically ceiling it like you wanted, because now that Nord Stream 1 is standing and no other gas is flowing there, I wonder how you're gonna be ceilinging this raw material from the Russian Federation. I think that you have therefore got it all wrong under your Presidency. As far as Nord Stream 2 is concerned, it can basically be said that in the case of Nord Stream 2 certification - which is only an administrative step, because Nord Stream 2 is pressurized - so you are not able to agree to add 100 percent before the winter season, and basically you don't care. You don't care if hospitals don't have gas. You're preparing for crisis scenarios that there won't be gas, but you don't want to buy the gas, because Nord Stream 2 is pressurized and ready to operate. So the kind of talk you're making here, what you're doing to make us independent of this raw material - we're really gonna be independent, but we're gonna be in the Stone Age. I'd even say you guys are going down the road with that cross. As for the name of your government, I don't think it's Purple's price anymore, but it's a five-calice government now, but a five-demolithic one. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u29	Thank you and please another registered, and that's Mrs. Lucie Šafránková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u30	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, I am addressing you in a rather critical situation at the contact points of the employment offices in the capital city of Prague. In recent years there has been an insensitive merger of these workplaces. I deliver for the sake of accuracy that not on the part of your government. Of the original ten district workplaces for traditional ten large Prague administrative districts, only seven of these centres are now left. Many new employment agendas have been added, and mainly as a result of the deteriorating economic and social situation and the sharp rise in basic cost of living, citizens who turn to the labour authorities are rapidly increasing rapidly, with a request for social support. In such a situation, reducing the capacity of labour offices is a bad step. As a result, thousands of citizens have to travel to these authorities much longer and more complicated, outside the urban areas where they live, which is a problem especially for seniors and disabled people. For a large part of seniors, the solution is neither the electronisation agenda, since they do not use the Internet. The forms are too complicated for them and prefer personal contact with the clerk. This leads to the fact that in many cases the process of granting aid takes a very long time. For these reasons, citizens often give up their request for assistance in advance or on an ongoing basis. Prime Minister, is your government handling this situation? Are you aware of these problems? This problem is crucial in the case of Prague 10 and its citizens, which is around 120 000 and the contact point of the employment office for them is now located on the outskirts of Prague 4, at the Novodvorská housing estate, which is the most populous part of the city, so the capacity problems are multiplied here. When will the contact workplace of Prague 10 be returned to its territory? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u31	Thank you and please another Mrs. Vladimíra Lesenská. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u32	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I was intrigued by the report in Lidovky dated 5. 9. this year: "Germany will disconnect all its nuclear power plants from the network at the end of the year. He'll keep two of them in reserve." So many quotes. [[15.00 hours]] In August, careful Chancellor Olaf Scholz left himself to hear that it probably makes sense to admit their further and longer operations. He spoke of German nuclear power plants, this was August, so that the Minister of Economy Robert Habeck now states that two of the three nuclear power plants will be left in reserve by mid-April 2023 and the third one will be put off by the end of the year as planned. At a press conference, Minister Habeck stressed that Germany has enough energy at its disposal and has a strong energy system to overcome the winter. We also supply electricity to our neighbors, he said. Germany is restoring the operation of coal power plants. I believe that Germany's approach, among other things, increases the prices of energy traded on the Leipzig Stock Exchange, but the rest of it was launched by the Green Agreement for Europe, the so diversely tilted Green Deal, and in addition, it was a complete nonsense war. What am I going to do? In fact, what did you discuss with the Federal Chancellor during his visit to Prague about energy when the views of the Němec themselves change almost day to day? That is, if it is not before the meeting of Ministers 9. 9. 2022 this hearing or the results of this hearing secretly. The only thing I have clearly noted is that the German Chancellor is considering abolishing the right of veto to individual countries in the EU. This week we were able to record government considerations on the ceiling of energy prices when you mocked this solution, which the opposition also proposed. What suddenly changed so quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u33	Thank you and please another Mrs Balaštíková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u34	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. So, Prime Minister, for eight months now, we've all been listening to how your government is constantly preparing something, working on it, inventing it, but I'm afraid we haven't gotten any results yet. In other countries of the European Union, they have many things that have long been done. There is no need to act immediately and to wait all the time. You're just constantly waiting for solutions to come from another corner of the world. Firms, employees, farmers, and others are facing serious problems. I'd expect Saturday's demonstrations to start doing something for you. Moreover, how do you expect to wait for solutions that do not come from the European Union, of course, will it take a long time for every European country, which is also in completely different situations than the Czech Republic, to secure itself in some way? In your statements, you say that you will not let anyone fall, but your actions lead everyone to fall, and I'm afraid very soon. And I'm sure this fall won't be nice for anybody. For example, France uses price regulation to address the crisis. However, we who have the law do not take advantage of it. If the survival of companies depends on energy, why is their price not regulated? Why aren't we using common sense? And I want to ask you, what kind of money do you intend to pay for social benefits, unemployment benefits, when companies that go bankrupt stop paying VAT, corporate and natural taxes, don't go to health and social, what will the Minister of Finance then recover from? Everyone is calling for the government to finally start thinking rationally and to see more visible steps and not to step on the ground. I would like to ask when there will be some more specific and effective procedures than you have shown so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u35	Thank you, and the last guest is Mr Radek Koten. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u36	Thank you, Mr President. That's the third time today. Prime Minister, I was also surprised by your statement after the demonstration on Wenceslas Square to people who have already received new energy reserves, that it will in no way go back to the salaries they have here, because we have some of the lowest salaries in the European Union, and they do not know how they will be able to pay the energy at all. You called them some anti-Putin group here, and I could quote it, but I think everyone's seen it before, your statement that they're some kind of pro-Russian trolls. I don't think so, because Putin doesn't issue bills here. These bills are issued here by Czech energy companies, which buy on the stock exchange, on the Leipzig Stock Exchange, which makes our citizens' energy more expensive. We're actually making it here for a little bit, for some 20, 25 penny, so then these people don't understand why they're supposed to buy that energy for 10 or more kroner per kilowatt hour. As far as hospitals, chemists, industrial businesses, foundries, glassworks are concerned, there's no way to investigate, because by stopping the operation, you can actually throw it all away, whether it's a furnace, whether it's a chemical plant, it just doesn't work that way. If you don't know that you can't regulate in hospitals, for example, in the O.R., then that's wrong with you. When I saw the arrogant expressions of your leaders, politicians, or even the TOP 09, I find it really beyond the reach. And whoever's an extremist here isn't the people who were in the squares, that's your extremist government. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u37	Thank you. And I'm warning the Chamber of Deputies that all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted. Now, therefore, oral interpelations will follow on other members of the government. A few apologies before we go any further. Mr Ondřej Benešík from 12.30 to 13.00 for work reasons, Ms Martina Ochodnická from 16 to 18 also for work reasons, Mr Petr Sadovský from 14.30 for work reasons, Mrs Alena Schillerová from 12.30 for work reasons and Mr Vít Rakušan from 12.30 to 13.00 for work reasons. And now we can move on to the next interpellation. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent minister, the European Commission is proposing to limit gas prices from Russia to EUR 50 per megawatt hour, about $512 per 1 000 cubic meter at the current rate. This is almost five times cheaper than the price of gas on the European market, on Tuesday it was EUR 240 per megawatt hour. The French Foreign Office stated that any new measures would be temporary. It could be introduced for six months and possibly extended by another six. The Spanish Minister said that it would be somewhat difficult for the European Union to agree for a change. The question is, to what extent we consider it something we can afford. If such an agreement were to take place at European Union level, for how long is it sustainable for the Czech Republic? If a solution to the energy crisis is not adopted at European Union level, what solution do you have at national level? And are you considering taxing ČEZ's excessive profits from electricity generation in nuclear power plants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u39	Thank you. The Minister of Industry and Trade has apologized, so we can move on to another interview, and this is Mrs Pastuchová, who will interpel Mr Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I'm lucky to have the Minister here. Isn't that a question of some... I would just like to ask - it is in advance, but I prefer to ask - whether there has already been any negotiations at European level on visas for patience, because we know that they will end in February or somebody in March. And how's that gonna go? And the other thing about this is that now the Ukrainian refugees are being accommodated, the regional coordination centers know that because they are being paid through them or through the state of funds for accommodation, and if there are dates actually, by when do the hostess are willing to provide accommodation? And if the regional coordination centers are ready for this because they see it every month, who ends? If those Ukrainian refugees in those accommodation facilities, then who's gonna have to take care of them, or where to move them? And one last question. Many visas have been issued, but now, for example, from data, that would be more up to the Minister of Education, but it is also up to you about statistics, because we have a lot of them issued, but also because many Ukrainian children who were expected to attend schools, so whether we have any analysis of how many refugees there are, or whether we already know how many have returned to Ukraine? So it's actually three questions, but I think it's one question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u41	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan has the floor. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to respond in more detail to the first part of the question. In general, at European level, we are waiting for a Commission proposal which I think could already come up with at the ministerial quotation marks that will be in October, how the Commission stands up to the temporary protection institute. Of course, there are more. We all hoped a little optimistic that the war would not last that long, and now it seems that the Commission is - and I presume that the proposal is not yet on the table - going to deal with the extension of the temporary protection institute, which is, of course, the easiest thing. But, of course, there is also a so-called visa for the purpose of patience, which is a Czech institute that has not ceased even with the application of European temporary protection. There are people in specific cases, foreigners who are not entitled to temporary protection for any reason, and they have the right to apply precisely for a visa to stay over 90 days in order to be patient. But this concerns people who are not entitled to temporary protection for some legislative reason. Such visas, in addition to temporary protections, which were granted over 420 000 in the Czech Republic, were also granted about 6,500 visas in order to bear, which is about a seven-fold increase compared to the whole of 2021, the period before the Ukrainian crisis. If the European Commission had not decided to extend the temporary protection institute in the end, we as the Czech Republic are legislatively prepared to do so and we could, just as we then turned the Czech legal institute into temporary protection, in an effective, simplified way, return to the Czech instrument again, so that those people who have a job here, their children go to school, have some background of their own, they would not be threatened to stay here if the conflict continues. If the Lord gave and the conflict were to end, the temporary protection institute would, of course, end on the date it is given, and then, of course, the people in the Czech Republic would be exposed to such processes as all other foreigners who are interested in staying in the Czech Republic for some purpose. This is probably a summary of the legal instruments, and I hope, and I also spoke about it on Monday with Commissioner Ylva Johansson, responsible for internal security, and I really asked her to give us the vision and vision as soon as possible, because individual Member States need to adapt to this, or we here in the Chamber of Deputies, to adapt legislatively in the Chamber and in the Senate, so that I do not touch the second, upper chamber of parliament, and they would, of course, deal with it. As far as total numbers are concerned, as I said, over some 425 000 temporary protection visas have already been granted, which implies, even from the European analysis, that some 20 to 25 percent of people are not in the territory of the European Union. These numbers also correspond to what we recorded in the school facilities according to the original prediction and according to the really registered children, so it tells us here that some 20 to 25 percent of the people who came to the Czech Republic registered are not here. The solution is now being sought at European level, when the European information system is finally working, the one that we have long sought as the Czech Republic, and at this point at European level, we want to turn to the fact that those who leave the territory of that Member State for a long time simply will not automatically be entitled to hold onto the temporary protection institute. On the other hand, it must be said that a lot of these people were coming back to check their properties in summer and so on, and maybe they wouldn't be able to live in winter, so some of them, not just the Czech Republic, but the whole of the European Union, will come back. I'm sorry, I explained the first one in more detail, but you're still entitled to an additional one, and I'll use it in the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u43	Thank you. I see that the honourable Member is still interested in asking an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u44	I'd be able to - or to answer the third one, if these county centers have statistics, like they have to have, because I know there's an end to it, so if you're watching it, if you're ready for it, if somebody ends in December, in January, and there's those refugees, if you're also counting on having other accommodations for them, because some families have to end it for some different reasons, then if you're ready for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u45	The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u46	Thank you for reminding me of that question because I forgot a little bit. We have given the task of the Strategic Commission, which also cooperates with the Commission of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to attend its meeting, which is 13. 9., submitted statistical data and plans on how to terminate the accommodation itself. We, for example, continue to extend this state-funded accommodation in the ministries' regulations, although I acknowledge that it is becoming quite complicated here too, because these authorities also need the equipment many times, but as far as the state-guaranteed accommodation providers are concerned, we will simply keep them and try to keep them as long as possible from the position of some ministerial authority. As far as private accommodation providers are concerned, the regions are actually registering who are finishing and when they are preparing for this by some local solution. On the other hand, we point out that more than 110 000 Ukrajinec are currently working, and many times they are also pointed out that they will just have to become more and more involved in their own search for accommodation, to engage in classical rental housing. If they earn, they will not be able to rely on the fact that the regions, the state, the cities, whoever will provide their accommodation forever. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should now come up with what the government will discuss, that is, with some deadlines until when all these contributions will be paid, at what level and in what horizon. We assume that these people will actually take great care of themselves here in the Czech Republic themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u47	Thank you, and we can move on to another interpellation. I ask that Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, a Member who will interpel the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u48	I'd just like to withdraw my intervention, because I've made a deal with Mr. Kupka, and I already have his answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u49	Thank you, please, another duly logged and winning - Mrs Marie Pošanová. Pošarová, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u50	Thank you for the floor. I have a question about the absente here, Minister Jana Černochová, because I gave written interpelation and I did not get an answer, so I would like to ask: since we have 8 September, this is Lína airport, I wonder if it has been evaluated, as in 2019, as necessary or not, and what reasons have been given for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Jana Černochová, Madam Secretary, is excused properly. Another logged in - and now, I have Mr Rais here, but he's not running on my computer, I'm just looking - Mr Rais is duly logged in, apparently, so you have the floor, Member, and you will intersect the minister of education here, Vladimír Balaš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u52	Thank you, I've already gotten nervous about why I'm not there. My question corresponds to what I put in the assignment, that is, I would like to know the idea of a new Minister of Education - whom I wish to have a lot of success, of course - what he has in mind about digitizing output at CERMAT, because it is an institution that accounts for about 90 people, there were problems when Minister Gazdík ended, basically the ministerial control found there quite a lot of problems. So what I'm talking about is what his idea is about, what the digitalisation of CERMAT output is going to look like, because I consider it to be a certain digital prehistoric, what's happening there, and I don't think it's consistent with what the pirát think about how digitalized public administration is supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u53	Thank you. And please the Minister of Education. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, I completely agree with you. It's a digital prehistoric. You're right, there are problems at CERMAT, the report, the audits confirmed it. We are intensively concerned with the possibilities of solutions. This digitization, it's gonna be the thing that I'm gonna be asking for a new leadership and a clear concept that should both digitize all these processes and gradually introduce both entrance exams and graduations in this form. It comes across some technical problems, in some cases it is necessary to ensure - I don't know - the possibility of making some graphs, teaching these children to need it, not only answers and writing, but also a little bit of other actions, and it is being discussed. I assume that the first step to the solution will be known in the next week, and I hope that next week we will have new leadership. So far, we've been trying to reach out to interested parties, and it looks like they're not rushing into CERMAT, but it's important, it's also linked to the 2030+ Strategy, the digitalization. Both entrance exams and applications should therefore take place through the Centre system. What we have learned, among other things, is the issue of data management, which is another matter that we have to deal with, and I think printing tests on printers and delivering them to cars does not really make sense at the moment. I don't even have to be a pirát, you're not a pirát, and you see it just as much as I do. I mean, we really need to move a little further. So the electronic tests and the others will be in the next phase, and I hope we can test them over a period of one or two years and introduce them completely standardized. It is also necessary to discuss schools. I have dealt with representatives of the Association of Directors of Gymnasiums and Secondary Industrial Schools, we have agreed on gradual steps so that there is no surprise, so that they know all year round as entrance exams, or as exams in general, graduation, will look like students get used to it, and we would like to add Czech eGovernment to this folder, which I think will be quite good. Then it is also important that the digital test corresponds to some digital competence of the pupil or student, and it should certainly not take place in some uncomfortable or unusual environment with some complex non-intuitive elements and controls. It is possible to imagine the involvement of artificial intelligence in the future, even this is already tested at times, and I believe that it should not, the testing, concern only some segment of closed or narrowly open tasks, where there are only possibilities of cross-cutting, but it should be developed just as technology gradually develops. And, of course, we also need to equip enough schools - not so bad now, but we still have something to do. So we're actually planning on it. I would like to have the first results and testing during the year, at most two, and that within three years these systems are fully implemented. I'm doing everything I can to keep my fingers crossed and I look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u54	Thank you. Time isn't running out there because you weren't properly logged in here on the computer, so I measured it here in the next hours, but no problem at all. I therefore ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u55	That was a relatively optimistic answer, so I'm looking forward especially to the artificial intelligence, because I used to have fun with it, so I wonder what's gonna come out of it. Today, the reality is that when I look on the Internet, for example, since 2010, CERMAT has typically been a mistake and it is, including lawsuits. So I think at least there'll be a need to pay attention, that's the minimum. Of course, at a time when it's not just a crossword, it's also a question of not giving another god of lawsuits. So something about the error rate, if - I would like to draw attention to the error rate, because it's shameful when 50 people here draw about a quarter of a billion state money, eventually at that crucial moment they make mistakes, and then ten years, ten years of conflict, now one just ended. [[We have time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u56	And please the Minister. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Yes, yes, thank you. I think that maybe not rarely, but we agree, even though it's true that the dispute that you're describing has arisen before. Recently, the error rate has decreased considerably, and I understand that if these tasks are put differently and answered differently, it will also require some other approach, different demands and will really need to be handled not only technologically but in terms of content, so that the questions are evaluated correctly. But I think the situation really is a little better. I hope we can keep that trend going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u57	Thank you and we can move on to the next, and this is Mrs Iveta Štefanová, who will interpel the Minister of Válek - absent, excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u58	Hello again. Dear Minister, my question to you will also be about the energy for our hospitals. The cost of operating our health care is rising. Energy costs alone have increased by up to 100 percent, and we are still hearing that there may not be enough energy, and health care is an absolute priority for me and the SPD. I don't think hospitals can do without the help of the state in this case. You have expressed yourself on this subject in the sense that, as Minister of Health, you will decide to have enough energy for hospitals, but you have only talked about faculty hospitals. And so my question is whether you monitor the situation in other health establishments, for she is a large, substantial part of our health care, and whether you plan to solve this situation for them and help them too. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u59	Thank you. The Member, or the Minister, is excused. And once again, I'm just saying that there's no number seven on the board, and that's Mr. Vladimír Zlínský. I have it in my background - Mr. Zlínský doesn't want it, thank you. So the next interviewer is Mr Richard Brabec, who will interpel Mrs. Secretary Anna Hubáčková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fortunately, I am shining on the board, but even more lucky, and thank you for having Secretary Hubáčková with us. Thank you for attending directly personally, because you see here according to other ministers with light exceptions that this is not, of course, a rule. As a former minister, I also remember trying to participate in the interview, and it is really one of the few possibilities for Members to learn some things. And I'm really getting to the point. I'm just gonna pick up on yesterday's debate that started here about the state budget amendment for this year, and I've been asking about the amount or chapter in my opinion very important, and that's the country care program. I tried very hard for my work at the Ministry, and it was also not easy for the Ministry of Finance to push for this amount to be significantly increased. Then we managed to double it, because it is really very important resources for hundreds of smaller but very important projects, which are also often done at the level of individuals, associations or municipalities. I understand from what Minister Hubáčková said yesterday, I just wanted to make sure that the amount was not increased - because I asked for it, but it did not happen during the discussion of the budget, but I lost a little bit in what was said yesterday - and I wanted to make sure that the money was secured for this year, at least 150 million crowns, what are the chances that it might be possible to increase this amount? I originally wanted 300 million, so at least a little bit, because allegedly the additional source of funding, which is the National Recovery Plan, is pretty complicated because, among other things, it doesn't finance VAT, so if the Secretary could answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u61	Yes, thank you, and the Minister has the floor. [[15.30 hours]] Even before the Minister arrives, just a comment on the colleagues who manage the board here. I've got it written here, but you don't have all the interpellings on Minister Balaš, that's 11, 15, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24. But since the minister is here, I'm based on the fact that we're following the reserve list I have, so anyway, I'm pointing everyone out that these interpelations are coming up. I'm sorry and you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is no emergency, I am always happy to participate in the interview. Usually I'm here, it's a really special situation where I would avoid talking to you. And now for the Landscape Care Program. It is certainly a very important tool for the Ministry of the Environment to finance especially the care of specially protected areas, and for the money we need there, no matter how much we plan, so with people who care about nature, we are able to do a lot of work, and perhaps even more than they actually get, because those who care, whether it's mischief or communities, can do a lot for that money. This year we had 150 million crowns in our budget. I assured you that we would definitely cover as many applications as possible. And the result of this year: at the moment I can say that we have covered all the applications that were there for care, in the total allocation of approximately 250 million crowns, so that the 150 million crowns we had in the budget were covered by unused claims and projects, all of which they have fulfilled, running. I have to say, I've been looking for other solutions - and just as you said, the National Recovery Plan, because the projects are starting to start. Financing there is a bit more complicated, VAT is not accepted, however we went into it, we have not identified, part of those projects, especially the one-off ones, we have eliminated from PPK, and most of the planting and care of the pool or the renewal of the pools. And all the projects that we have gathered in this area, we've also been working on. We're still dealing with VAT. I hope we succeed, and the projects that are there are over 180 million crowns. So I also took the liberty of saying that we are moving a lot more than we used to be, thanks to the fact that the National Recovery Plan allows us to do so, and in this way we will want to continue this year. We've already tried it, we know where we have certain limits, how far we can get, and I would like to combine the Landscape Care Programme and the National Recovery Plan again so that we can do as much work as possible. And now the combination of those two resources will allow us to do more this year. We really managed to invest. Of course, it's not the end of the year yet, so I don't have the exact number, but we're already at 450 million, so I hope that this direction that we've set - he's more administratively demanding from the point of view of the National Recovery Plan, our PPK is very simple, and of course our applicants are used to it, so it's easier - but we're just worth the extra work because it's extra money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u63	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question? He doesn't. So I'm gonna ask for another one, and that's Mrs. Margita Balaštíková. Just after a brief discussion here with my colleagues, I confirm that all the interpelations applied for, so Mrs Šebelová does not have to panic, that she is not on the board, she will be up in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u64	So again, colleagues, hello, and my question to the Minister of Agriculture. Minister, during the period of our Presidency of the European Union, the directive on the use of pesticides is also to be discussed. At the House plenary, I asked you whether you would take the view that there would be a flat-rate reduction of 30%, or would you, in the interests of the Czech Republic, take the view that an absolute number of reductions would apply to agriculture? The Czech Republic has been first in the lowest use of pesticides in all EU countries for the third year and, therefore, if a flat-rate reduction of 30% should occur, our agriculture would become uncompetitive and the Czech farmers would be seriously damaged by this measure. The same issue, of course, concerns fertilization. If there is a reduction in the use of the amount of individual elements per hectare in the form of a smaller quantity than that currently applied in the Czech Republic, of course the yield of the crops per hectare will be reduced and the price of the harvested food will also be increased and the above-mentioned non-competitiveness will occur. Please respond, Minister, to my questions, which are of course of interest to me, but above all to our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u65	Thank you. The Minister is duly excused, so I will ask for another enrollment, and that is Mrs. Vladimira Lesenská. Mrs Lesenská, you have the floor. As I'm sure you already know, you're intersecting the absent Minister of Industry Síkela, who is duly excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u66	I know, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna keep my interview for next time, so thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u67	Thank you, and please now Mrs Šebelová, who will interpel the Minister of Education. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u68	Dear Minister, fellow Members, in my interview I want to return to a topic that appears a bit in the media and has already been heard here in the House of Deputies, and concerns leisure centres. As I'm sure, Minister, you know, leisure centers are facilities that give children different circles, organize camps and so on. And we don't have to talk about helping parents take care of their children in their spare time. These are very important facilities, which often complement and extend the educational and educational activities of the school in a very fundamental way. But concerns about their existence are multiplying for two reasons. One of them is the global crisis, facing energy prices and other impacts. Children often decline because children do not have to pay for rings, but also the centres draw attention to the amendment of Decree No. 111/2022 Sb., which modified the method of financing in a way that centres are now receiving funding for one participant regardless of how many rings or other activities they participate in. And according to my information for this reason, some centres have already stepped up to a limit where one child may only be enrolled in a single circle. This situation is certainly not satisfactory, and I would like to ask you, how do you want to deal with this for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u69	Thank you. And the Minister of Education, Vladimír Balaš, has the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, that was in their own ranks. As far as leisure centres are concerned, I am aware that they are an integral part of our education system. It's not just about children gaining knowledge, maybe some competence, but about developing in a versatile way. This is what the centres serve for, among other things. The decree mentioned by the Member was adopted mainly in order to unite the operation of the centres, because they are organised differently, each region has different rules. We'd like those rules to be harmonised, that's one reason. The second reason is that we have found that the funds allocated to these centres - and it is still CZK 1.7 billion - are still unchanged - so they are sometimes used in a way that is not consistent with the purpose for which they should be organised. I don't have anything against seniors, I'm alone at that age, but there's no way to pay for those funds for seniors, maybe only together with children, and it's not possible to draw funds for double funding, like kindergarten. These resources must be sought differently and those intended for the free-time activities of children should be used in a way that is laid down by law and implementing decree. So that was the main reason we put it in place. [[15.40 hours]] I understand that the decree may affect certain centres in individual cases, but as far as our analysis is concerned, this should not be the case, and in individual cases the Ministry of Education is prepared to set rules to suit everyone. So that somewhere in the centers where people who could help and provide services are apparently not receiving, this cannot be allowed. And on the other hand, adding to where they don't need to be, there's no point either. So we are also agreed at the level of the captains and I have a feeling that in some cases with the Liberec Region, with the Pardubice Region, we are agreed with the Highlands that we will solve any minor problems, but rather marginal, individually, that we will try to allocate resources to suit it. It is indeed possible, and I think that, according to our analysis, the vast majority of these centres will have exactly the same resources as they had. The problem that we were dealing with, and for which we changed funding, was that some of the children were getting funding for five rings, while others, for example, at all. It didn't even lead the directors to actively look for children in some disadvantaged localities and try to attract them to it. I know this is difficult, but the reason for which the decree has been amended is, in addition to harmonisation, also an effort to involve as many people as possible in post-school education, not the same. So I just want to say, really, the resources are the same, in individual cases we can solve this, and we hope that the new setting of the rules will lead to harmonisation and that it will lead to the use of resources in individual regions for what they should be and so that it is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u70	Thank you. I wonder if there's an additional question? It's not. So we have another enrollment, and this is Mr. Mr. Síla, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would just have a simple question about Minister Rakušan in relation to the Mafia - as I called it in my application - STAN, which is, of course, an expressive name. However, I would be interested in the Minister's view in the sense that if he found himself on the other side of the opposition reciprocally, from the coalition the chairman of some political party would be an interior minister who would appoint a police director who would investigate mafia structures or simply investigate his party colleagues, how would he view this from the opposition? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u72	Thank you for asking. The Minister of the Interior, Mr. Vít Rakušan, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. My colleague, I was full of expectations about what would come in your question when I saw the expressive title. Well, first of all, the police president was appointed long before any case occurred, but there was no special appointment for the police president. Secondly, the fact that the Police of the Czech Republic acted very consistently at the time of my ministry, with very fundamental political implications for my own political party, for my own political movement, shows that the police acted on the contrary without any interference from the Minister of the Interior. The whole case is being investigated very consistently. We all saw that she had great reverends in political space. It turns out that the entire case had reverend not only for the STAN movement, but also for other political forces. It's just a corruption case of community policy. I was deliberately looking at what it looked like since 1990, and I only came to two ministers whose fellow party wasn't investigated at the time. There were ministers here who had their own senators investigated, they had their own officers investigated, and so on. Of course, it's an unpleasant thing for every side. In each side, when someone comes along with corruption, it hurts the party, it hurts its mechanisms, but I, as I have certainly proven many times, do not interfere with these processes in any way, and I will not interfere with them, no matter what political party it is. If you ask me how I would act in opposition, I would certainly ask that question, I would certainly like to be sure that the Minister of the Interior does not interfere with such a matter. But I think I've proven it by what happened here and by the obvious absence of any interference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u74	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question? He doesn't. So we can move on to the next one, and this is Mr Koten, who will interpel the apologized Minister Síkela. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to address Mr Síkela's absent minister with a similar question, which I have already addressed to the Prime Minister, also absent, and he is actually a national energy trader, because the Czech Republic as such does not have a direct contract on gas suppliers, and it can be said that our consumers are now feeling this in a rather significant way on new advances, i.e. those whose fixations have expired. We basically buy through the Finnish company Uniper, which is a monopoly supplier of gas for the Czech Republic, and this company trades at spot prices, i.e. not completely advantageous because long-term contracts are always more advantageous. I here, for comparison, for Czech citizens to have a comparison, as well as the Hungarian government, the bad Prime Minister Orbán, as the President of the House here says, that people should banish, so in Hungary the gas costs 6.20. In the Czech Republic, it costs 6 crowns on old contracts, but now up to 47 crowns can stand on new ones. The difference in price is, of course, multiplied quite somewhere else, and even the backups correspond to that. As far as you're concerned, if you're ever going to do business directly, or if you'd rather be supporting some foreign private company that sponsors Finnish pensioners, that's basically a question for you. And what Petr Fiala's government is doing here, and you're in it, is really a story like that of a Bangladesh. So please, kindly tell us if you intend to continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u76	Thank you, and since the Minister is excused, we can move on to the next one, and this is Mr. Josef Flek, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u77	Thank you. Hello. Dear Vice-President of the House, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I would have a simple question for the Minister, and that is whether he remembers to increase the salaries of police officers and firefighters due to inflation. Yesterday there were various thesises, thought flows, and I would like to hear it from some competent mouth and hear the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u78	Thank you, and Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u79	Thank you. This interpelation will be very quick. I would like to thank Minister Stanjur in this form. I had a meeting with the Slovak Interior Minister yesterday, and then I heard only mediated what was happening here in the debate on the state budget. Cops, firefighters, but also members Customs administrations and soldiers, as the first professional group as uniformed representatives, had agreed at government level and at tripartite level that their tariff salaries would increase by 10 per cent as of 1 January. It is, of course, growth that corresponds to the possibilities of the state budget, but it is a professional group where growth is essentially the highest. [[15.50 hours]] What we are now dealing with with Mr. Police President - the average salary of police officers alone is not bad, but what is worse is the starting level, for how much new police officers are entering, where the amount is relatively low, no longer competitive on the labour market. And we're talking about how to change the parameters in the existing tables so that the new cops get above CZK 30,000 on their starting salary. I mean, from 1. 1. tariffs - 10 % - firefighters and policemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u80	Thank you. Do you have an additional question, please? No. Then I will ask Mr Aleš Juchelka, who will interpel the Minister of Education Vladimír Balaš. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u81	Thank you very much. I have the same interview, and I'm glad the Home Secretary is here, too, Vít Rakušan, so I'm gonna give up one after that. I just want to, 'cause it's across the resorts, so maybe somehow they can make a deal. Dear Minister and Dear Minister, they address me as Members of the Moravian-Silesian Region of primary school directors. In our region there are often unenviable situations, with the influx of refugees from Ukraine to the Czech Republic gradually taking primary schools into classrooms also Ukrainian children and currently in the new school year they have dozens of them in some schools since September. In one particular case, and I would like to pass the details on to Ukrainian children, given their number, they would issue a whole class, which means 30 children, so they welcomed the opportunity to employ a Ukrainian assistant, in this case directly the parents of one of the pupils who meets the conditions for such an assistant. But there was a glitch. This particular person has been requested to extend the residence card since 8 June, but the Ministry of the Interior still has not decided, and without the residence card it is not possible to employ this person. So there was a stalemate. I was convinced that this was an equivalent administrative procedure, where the period is normally 30 days, which can then move to 60 days, but in this case it is 92 days from the issue of the residence card, or the issue of a residence card, so far it is ineffective and I fear it may also be a general problem. So I wanted to ask you whether you are meeting this problem more often, when it is possible to employ some Ukrainian experts, even in that, for example, these schools cannot employ them here because they are not given the residence card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u82	Thank you. The Minister of Education, please. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your feedback. I'm sure it's a good idea to find out if it's a system problem, but we don't have that kind of information yet. On the contrary, we know that we have more than a thousand Ukrajinec registered to provide this assistance, and more than 400 teaching staff. When it comes to what you're asking, it's really in the Ministry of the Interior, but even though it's in their gesture, we're trying to make contact with all potential Ukrainian assistants or educators. The problem was that they use social networks other than what we're used to, such as Telegram or TikTok. But we also have an overview of the regions in which the ORP could be the problem, rather in the larger agglomerations, as you mentioned. And, of course, we tend to work with them as well and increase their qualifications in cooperation with non-profit organisations that focus on the area. But I'm gonna check if it's really not a general problem, and just by communicating through their networks, I believe we're gonna get that information. It bothers us a little that the cooperation with the Ukrainian embassy has been interrupted. After Mr. Ambassador left, the activity is not what I would have imagined. But I think we're going to restore it and find out, I'll really let you know if it's a general problem or not. And, of course, I'm going to beg the Home Secretary to see what might be the problem. It can really be a question of how a request is filled out, something might be missing in the application, it could be a whole series of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u83	The Member has an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u84	Thank you, too. I'm sure I won't have a follow-up question. I'd just like to give up another application for the same interpellation I have for Minister Rakušan. And I would also like to ask him if he would be so kind as to express himself to me in writing and answer after how the system, for example, is set up between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Interior, because this could be a really more general problem when we know that there are thousands of pedagogical or non-teaching workers that we can somehow involve in education. Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u85	Thank you. I see he won't respond again, so please, another logged in. This is Mr Kott, who will interpelise Minister Hubáčková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, thank you very much for your presence. I would like to contact you with the following question. Since the amendment of Decree No. 273/2021 for sludges, so the SAO cannot approve sludge use programmes on the farm soil fund for sludges of the second category for application next year. But in many places there are actually running out of forms, and therefore there will be a situation that, in my opinion, will not be able to remove from sewage treatment plants in the tenth or eleven months, where the approval process plus soil sampling is two months. According to information, the ÚKZ Brno sent a request to the Ministry of the Environment for an opinion on the issue to the hands of engineer Maršák. Since time is running too fast, I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, for information on the stage at which the preparation of the amendment to Decree No. 273/2021. I just want to remind you of the rocket increase in the prices of industrial fertilisers, and the fact that these prices are skyrocketing does not mean that the production of industrial fertilisers cannot be completely stopped.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u87	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. I met this issue sometime in the middle of the year, when representatives of SOVAK and the Union of Towns and Municipalities visited me and pointed out that the possibility of exporting sludge from sewage treatment plants to agricultural land ends because new limits will apply. We dealt with this, I called on such a task force to verify what is possible and impossible, because, above all, it was about medium and smaller cities that have a sewage treatment plant, and thus the problem was not just random, but I would almost say that it was about cities and municipalities throughout the Republic. These are mainly limits for microbiology, such as salmonella, enterococcals and so on. So we started working on the amendment of the decree, we got the most up-to-date documents from the Central Audit and Testing Institute of Agriculture, and we discussed these limits. The draft decree already exists, in the working group was discussed both by the Ministry of Agriculture, in the working group there is already a definitive proposal, we are preparing it for interdepartmental commentary proceedings. And since it is not a decree, it is not a law, it will not pass through the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate, but ends with a declaration from us, by approval from the Ministry of the Environment. I assume we're going to publish it this year, and it's going to be effective from 1. 1. 2023. Given who was involved in everything both from ministries and from professional organisations and institutions, I hope that there will be no unexpected problem in interdepartmental commentary proceedings that would prevent the decree from being issued.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u89	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken over the management of the meeting. At this point, I will ask if the Member is interested in an additional question, a question? Yes, he does, so I will ask Mr Josef Kott to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. And if I understand correctly, that means that by the end of the year everything will be settled and to 1. 1. 2023 will be valid. My additional question is, therefore, that the individual guarantors of the disposal of sewage sludge from those sewage treatment plants will not be able to actually fill out the relevant documentation, so it is possible to promise from the Ministry that everything will be okay and that they will be able to continue continuously from 1. 1. 2023?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u91	Thank you very much for keeping time, and I will now ask the Minister of the Environment for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u92	I don't know exactly what they're like now. At this point, I don't know what the form looks like, but I don't expect any problem especially because the limits - the new ones - are supposed to be valid from 1. 1. 2023 and our even newer ones actually replace it from 1. 1. 2023. There shouldn't be any excess. And maybe -- but we have the Central Audit and Testing Institute in that working group, so they're perfectly familiar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u93	Thank you, so it was an exhausted interpellation within Mr Josef Kott and I would now ask Mr Petr Letocha to give an interview to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u94	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I am being approached by citizens about the amount of housing contributions. We know that the amount of the housing allowance affects so-called housing standards, which no longer reflect the current reality of housing costs. As I come from Karviné, Karviná, like many other cities in the Moravian-Silesian Region, is struggling with the population loss and this year, for the first time in one of the three population registers, has reached less than 50,000 inhabitants, which basically means that already low standards have decreased for the citizens of Karviné. I will not now address the correctness of the calculation of the population, because we are already dealing with this at the level of the Ministry of the Interior, but together, Minister, we were discussing an increase in housing standards a while ago, and of course for all citizens of the Czech Republic. So my questions are: Is it clear that housing normals will rise? If possible, mention at least as a percentage or by how much. Most importantly, I wonder when any change will be reflected in increased housing contributions for a citizen? Does that mean when does a citizen really get increased contributions? In particular today, many citizens of the Czech Republic are waiting to increase their contributions, respectively, to housing standards. Therefore, thank you so much for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time, and now I would ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Marian Jurečka, for an answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u96	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, I think that the debate around normalists is a debate that is really very important, rather crucial for setting up help for households in the Czech Republic, who are struggling not only with high prices of housing costs such as rent, but just as the rising costs of electricity and gas are. I must say that we have increased this standard very significantly in January of this year, when it happened that 50 per cent of the applicants for a housing allowance had been ceilinging the standard until the end of last year. With this significant increase in normality since January, 70 percent of today's applicants have not been ceilinged by normality, we are left with about 30%, on which the ceiling of normality really falls. We have done a detailed analysis of how normality affects individual groups of applicants, with about 45 per cent of applicants, who are one and two-member households, ceilinging the normality at this point. This is due to the fact that it is a specific group of inhabitants, and often it is also seniors who live alone or in pairs. So I made it clear and I said, and now we're really going to finalize the exact form of normalism over the next few days to adjust the normalization. It will be adjusted from 1. 10th of this year. I reckon at the government's meeting this amendment will be September 21st. The standards work in such a way that, at the moment when someone asked for a new housing allowance from the beginning of October, a new applicant can, of course, also ask back three months, so we are able to cover the third quarter. The exact increase won't be flat. I had a meeting with my work team today about this, so I can't say that it's going to be some exact percentage for all groups by number of households and by size of cities, but my goal is to adjust the normalizer by taking into account really the increases in energy prices, but also the specific situation of one and two-member households, which we need to remember, which normative cannot be ceilinged in this way so that, let's say, the ceiling amount or ceiling volume of households is somewhere around 15 percent, where the standard ceiling will apply. The ceiling is important so that we don't get the situation that some of us - I say some - landlords of real estate will artificially increase the rent to those households and benefit from the state's increase in normality. So that's why the normalization is needed there, but I assume that a really large majority of the applicants, which, of course, even now for the fourth quarter, are going to increase prices, are going to be able to solve very well with the increased standardization. We'll increase the normality for the three-, four- and multi-member households, where the increase will also be. Again, I'm not able to say the percentage here at this point because it's really going to be factored out and more individualized into the size of the household, but I can guarantee that we're specially focusing on the situation of one and two-man households, which now, let's say, were really ceilinged in a very large volume, which is roughly 45 percent of that ceiling. As for the particular situation that we have not yet discussed in terms of the decline in the population of Karvina, I have to say here that I understand, of course, the people, I understand the leadership of the city, but here I am unable to do anything about it at this point. However, I agree that in the future from my point of view it would be perhaps more objective to assess the size of the municipality and the city and its population directly from the population register, which I think has probably the most up-to-date data, not the data of the Czech Statistical Office, and we are ready to support and respond to this change. I just want to say that last month, the housing allowance was almost 180,000, the average amount of the housing allowance was CZK 4 185 a month on average, but even for households with two children, the monthly contribution is higher than CZK 6,000. From the beginning of the year to the end of July, support was granted to people who dealt with higher housing costs in excess of CZK 5 billion. This means roughly more than CZK 4.5 billion was provided as part of the housing allowance and the remaining more than half a billion were provided in the form of a housing supplement and in the form of extraordinary immediate assistance related to exceptional housing events. So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u97	Minister, thank you for keeping the time. And now I will ask the Member if he wants to ask an additional question? She doesn't want to, so thank you. Another interview - Mr. Jan Lacina. [[Minister Balaš says he's apologized.]] I'm sorry, he's not present. Okay, so the next person to go is Mr. Zdeněk Kettner, who has an interview with the Minister of Education, Vladimír Balaš. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u98	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I have a question for the Minister. When inclusion was introduced, the majority of the pedagogical public did not accept this in a positive way, especially when a regular educator wanted him to perform the activities of a special educator. It's like you want a mechanic to fix a plane. Of course, we'll have an assistant educator to help us. The question, however, is whether a senior course is sufficient, as is the case with assistants in Nordic countries, where they already have a completely different tradition. In any case, there was a report in public space on the so-called parametrisation of teachers' assistants, and as it was submitted, it would mean that teachers would follow their number of classes and number of pupils and would not take into account the number of children with special educational needs, which would often mean a drop in these educator classes where it is really needed. I know, of course, that the Ministry of Education has denied this interpretation, but I would like to use this possibility for cameras, so that the Minister can comment on this and, if necessary, calm the pedagogical public down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u99	Thank you for the interview. Now the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Vladimír Balaš, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Madam President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the issue of assistants and parametrization, the Member rightly stressed that we dealt with inclusion, that we did not take it quite happily at the time, and the problem that we are dealing with is that if parents want an assistant for their child and do not get support from a school advisory facility once, they go to the other, if they do not get there, they go to the third when they get one. And sometimes there are so many assistants in that class that it can interfere with school education. That's part of the problem. The second part of the problem is that if we allow this trend to be maintained, and each advisory facility decides differently, it has different parameters, there is no harmonisation in the whole Czech Republic, so soon the system will be unbearable, unsustainable also financially. That is why we would like to paralyze the system, why we would rather assign assistants in sufficient quantity and with sufficient qualifications - and I completely agree with you that education should be higher than high school. In Scandinavian countries, it is at the level of a bachelor's or even a master's degree. It should make it possible to have so many assistants in that school that they can be used flexibly and to carry out the task so as not to interfere in teaching and to provide their services effectively in cooperation with teachers. As regards parametrization, of course, this also has to do with setting some conditions for funding assistants, then reducing the administrative burden of schools and undoubtedly with education. Unfortunately, we have few educators who are qualified at the moment, all the harder to get our assistants now. But let us hope that this will also be helped by the planned draft law on pedagogical workers and by the follow-up to other legislation that should address this in some way. As I said, the support has so far been linked to the recommendations of the school advisory facility, and we would also like to harmonise or harmonise decisions in this area in some way, so that is another matter. And then we'd like to strengthen the management position of the school's principal, which is something that could also allow for a flexible response to the needs of the school. There is no way that if the school has really higher requirements for the number of assistants, that we would reduce it, on the contrary, it should be budgeted according to the needs of the specific school. I understand that in some cases it may be more necessary, in some smaller, but the way it really is supposed to be depends on how it is determined by the consulting facility, and their work really needs to be aligned in some way, to lay down some essential conditions, because at present, assistants are granted to children who may not really need it at all. And it's kind of a long-distance run... [[With laughter.]] But I hope we can work this out. But thank you for the question. We're aware of the problem, and I'm sure we'll be dealing with it. As far as existing parametrisation models are concerned, I think it is still in discussion, and it will, of course, remember both the budgetary structure and contributions to schools and the legal framework that has been set up recently. And, of course, there are different models - we would like to get closer to functional models, especially Scandinavian models, even in this area. I guess that's all I can promise you, but it's a thing that we're really intensive about. And I know the system isn't working too well yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u100	Thank you, Minister, and at this point I will ask the Member if he wants to ask a supplementary question? Yes, he does. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u101	My question will be very short. We talked about the fact that we actually have different approaches to individual pedagogical meetings and so on, if there is also some standardization being prepared for the decision-making of pedagogical meetings in order to give it some order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time, and I will ask for the Minister of Education's response. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Yes, it is in consideration, but of course we must do this in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and other competent authorities. It's something we can't do without, because we're not going to solve the problem just by making a legislative adjustment without putting ourselves in a sphere that actually decides it. Maybe we can set them some... or we can agree on some reasonable rules. The rules are actually... there's more of a question of implementation and interpretation and application of the rules. So I think, in part, we might be able to bring in a professional chamber, but certainly the Ministry of Health in this respect, and perhaps insurance companies as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u103	Thank you for answering and keeping time. We are at interpelation number 20, which will be presented to us by Mr Viktor Vojtko, and again to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u104	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear ministers. Minister, the topic of my intervention concerns changes to the framework education programmes for elementary schools and secondary schools. I would like to ask you: As the 2030+ strategy is being implemented, how do the revision of the framework education programmes continue? The objectives set out there, in particular, were to limit the amount of educational content in some way, and from my point of view also from the point of view of parents who would contact me about it in some way, and, of course, expert discussions both in academic circles and, of course, in school management, I would like to know how these changes actually continue in the framework education programmes. How is MŠMT currently doing? What is your attitude and attitude about this? And when can specific changes in schools be expected? This means when will the framework education programmes specifically be written into school education programmes and thus reach our children through educators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u105	Thank you for keeping time, and at this moment the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports has the floor. Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Madam President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if we have enough time to start a discussion on the subject of framework education programmes, that is really a long discussion. It is true that, firstly, I would like to say that this is one of the priorities of this government. Secondly, I know that we have already tried to change the framework education programmes at the beginning of this millennium, sometime in 2004. It turned out different ways. In some schools they approached this very innovatively, thought about it and prepared their school educational programs very well. In other schools, what was being prepared was actually the rotation of the existing curriculum and nothing has changed, so unfortunately it is in most cases. And we're still in the education system that Empress Marie Terezie has set up a good memory to a certain extent. That is what I think is costing us potentially a lot of human, financial, economic resources, and we should really move the system in the right way. [[16.20 hours]] You asked where we were. The Guidelines for Framework Education Programmes are now being finalised. I started relatively recently. I was a little surprised by the way the Ministry approached it, in a good way, of course. He found 15 great experts, 15 strong personalities, and the result was that everyone had a fight, and finally what they agreed on was that nothing should change much. I think it's unacceptable. Fortunately, those who have it in the Ministry's job description understand that, both my colleagues at the Ministry and the Czech School Inspectorate and the National Education Institute. I've entered to prepare an alternative or two of the Main Directions. In some cases some questions are being tested, such as the teaching of modern history, but I believe that by the end of this year the guidelines will be prepared in some variants, they will be discussed that they will immediately start preparing individual curies with a specific task. I would like the approach to be a little different from the classic, when individual items are prepared separately, so they do not overlap, they are not seen in any context. I'm not sure if we can teach physics, chemistry, science, and whether it's supposed to be a concept of science, as it is in modern educational programs, with students or pupils learning how to relate to each other. I think it's one of the ways. This concerns not only natural sciences, but also social sciences and others. We want, in addition to knowledge, and those of our pupils and students to get a lot of them so that they don't have so many, but that those that they have to be able to use to add competence to knowledge, of course there are three other aspects in competences, but that's what we would like, and I think we're getting close to that, and that maybe even alternative options and the possibility of comparing individual approaches. Of course, we are also based on experience from countries where educational programmes work well, Finland, Ontario or elsewhere, so that it will lead to the programmes being prepared well. But it is not enough to have a good framework education programme in itself, but it is also necessary to support schools, methodically and otherwise in the preparation of school education programmes, and it is not enough in itself, because the mosaic, when it is composed, needs teachers, too, so in parallel to this, it is working on the preparation of teacher education, increasing their qualifications. Here, among other things, we cooperate with universities, especially with teaching faculties, as well as with the nonprofit sector, with the Live Teacher and others who follow this question. I think they're very strong critics of the Ministry of Education, but I'm glad they're dealing with that question, that we're getting the necessary feedback. I believe that during, say, 2023 or mid-2024, we will have framework education programmes in such a form that we can test them so that they will learn from 2025. I don't know if it's too ambitious - I think it's manageable because basically we have enough good practice in the Czech Republic, many schools already have the programs set up so that we can inspire not only outside but also at home, and also methodological support and teacher education should be done so that we can manage it. [[Prime Minister, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u106	I'm sorry, thank you. Will I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? The minister said that this is a subject that deserves more time, so I'll ask you, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u107	That's right. It's a subject that's definitely very important. In the end, we're sitting here in the benches, maybe a little bit like school. I think modern school should look different by now. I would like to ask, in this context, about the changes in the framework education programmes in secondary schools, whether there is also considered any shift, for example, to increase the individualisation of teaching, to different setup of subjects, and like other models of what high school studies may actually look like, let's say, Western countries, such as the United States, and so on, where flexibility is significantly greater within the scope of the study, students can choose the level of individual subjects depending on how they are, not just according to what year they are in and what field they are studying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. I ask for the Minister of Education's reply. Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, we certainly count on it. To a certain extent, it is also expected to be in a lower degree. But there is a bit of a problem in nodal programs and expanding to avoid any inequality and possibly discrimination against children from another social environment, and testing is a little more problematic, but undoubtedly flexibility is very important. I think it can also be interesting from the point of view that the school will have some profile and will attract a certain segment, certain students. That's what he's counting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. We will now move on to the next interview number 21, where I will ask for Mrs Michaela Opltová to come, who is having an interview with the Minister of the Interior. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u110	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues. I'd like to ask the Home Secretary. Dear Minister, I have a question about the rewards of members of the Fire Rescue Corps if you are considering them. I believe that this is particularly important in view of their deployment in the framework of a large forest fire in Hřensko. During the intervention, over 6,000 firefighters from all over the Czech Republic were involved in the assistance. Volunteer firefighters also played an important role here. Firefighters have been absolutely crucial to the crisis system of the Czech Republic in recent years, yet they are currently moving slightly above the average wage limit. I think the least the state can do for them at this point is pay or raise wages as a thank you for the self - sacrificing work they do for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u111	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. I will now ask for the reaction of Minister Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u112	Thank you for the floor. Madam, fellow Members, fellow Members, the Government has agreed, or Minister Stanjura, with me, that the intervention in Hřensko will be rewarded, for all the IZS components. It's not just about the firefighters, it's about the cops who did an excellent job there, too. The government will allocate more than CZK 300 million from the budget reserve, with 200 million - now please do not catch me for a specific exact amount, I say here roughly the ratio - 200 million will go to all the material, logistical costs that firefighters, whether professional or voluntary, have put into full intervention, so it will compensate them. In the case of voluntary firefighters, and here I had a lot of letters from all over the Republic, there was, among other things, the destruction of their technology and the like, and here too will be necessary financial compensation to be able to meet their obligations in the municipalities where they serve. It has to be said that volunteer firefighters have done a fantastic job here, and if we compare the ratio of professional and voluntary, of course they were professional in the most difficult terrains and devoted themselves to coordinating the entire process, but there were actually more voluntary ones there, so of course they will also be thought of and the amount of over 100 million crowns will be directed directly to rewards. With the methodology came Mr. CEO Vlček, who counts the time spent directly on the intervention, and again I say, it will concern both professional and voluntary firefighters. Actually, this is the first time I've said that information in this form. We officially wanted to announce it to the firefighters with the Prime Minister on Monday, when some of them will be ceremonially awarded, and tomorrow, if you would like - a cultural insert - for firefighters there will also be a special concert with sponsors as a thank you for Czech Switzerland, tomorrow evening at the Exhibition Centre. [[16.30 hours]] So these are things that prove that the government is aware of the unprecedentedness of the intervention, and although the budget is very, very tense, we will certainly release the money here, as I said once before, from the budget reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u113	Thank you. I will ask the honourable Member if he wants an additional question? She doesn't want to, so we've dealt with another interpellation. I would now ask Mrs Ivana Mádlová to come and give her interview. This interpelation is for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, Minister, I would like to stop at the decree prepared by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which lays down special rules for heating and hot water supply. My main concern is the homes of social services, or social facilities, where I have been operating for the last few years. I must say that the temperature proposals that are mentioned there cause great concern for both the founders and the staff. Therefore, I would like to ask some specific questions. This decree sets a limit below which the temperature in each room should not fall. In retirement homes, as you write - they are senior homes under the Social Services Act, they are, of course, homes with special regime or institutions of social care - so specifically these homes, there is determined temperature in rooms of 20 degrees, bathrooms of 20, folds of 18 and hallways of 15 degrees. I'd just like to say to these hallways that maybe clients spend quite a lot of time in the hallways. For one thing, they rehabilitate, practice walking, it's a social area, a social space where they actually communicate together, sit on chairs, so it's quite important space for them, and it's also necessary to take this into account. I have specific questions. What specific help will you guarantee to the elderly if they are not drowning at all or if they have to lower temperatures at this limit and there is certainly a high risk of hypothermia, because it is basically known for these seniors that there is a high risk of hypothermia physiologically? Whether you prepare any methodology from the MPSV that will take into account how to care for clients if temperatures are reduced and the basic physiological needs are met? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u115	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, has the floor now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, thank you for the questions raised by the Member on this matter, which, of course, concerns the impact of the energy crisis on the social services sector as well as on the legislative actions prepared jointly by colleagues from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I want to say a pretty important thing here, so that we see this situation as a situation where we have secured energy for the public sector. From next week we will publish the parameters of the so-called state trader to ensure that municipalities, cities, regions, founders, and social services, have - if they do not have the energy purchased at this time - that they are sure that they will buy energy and that they will have it delivered. So for one of your questions, what we're going to do if we don't have energy, I want to make it clear that we're going to have energy, we're going to have electricity, we're going to have gas, we're going to have heat. These steps were taken by the government in recent weeks and months, whether from the point of view of filling gas reservoirs, supplementing capacity within LNG terminals, communicating with suppliers, communicating at European level, so that the principle of solidarity would work, so that it would not be necessary to limit the supply of electricity, gas, heat for social services, hospitals, schools and other public sectors. As for the above decree and its parameters, I see it as minimum values. As I communicate with the regions, as I communicate with individual social services providers, they perceive it as having no ambition, and there will be no reason to reduce thermal comfort in their facilities. That's not how the communication is built, not even the one we're running with it. It's just a possibility in a situation where, for example, when hallways have been mentioned here, both of them and probably others watching us know that part of, for example, a social facility, where it's not even a normal part that serves to move people, or some part of them, some kind of activity or some sort of shift to rehabilitation and the like, so it's an option that gives some reasonable, possible procedure to the director or the founder, how he can work here in these constraints. Again, I return to the fact that, of course, the provider also has a legal obligation to ensure good care for the client in order to avoid any deterioration in his health due to the causes of, for example, reduced heat regime or thermal comfort. So I don't expect that to happen, and I don't expect it to happen for any objective reason, because by how we set up the state trader who will guarantee the price, the price will again be set in such a way that it is for cities, municipalities, regions, but also the other founders who are from that non-governmental sector, so that they are acceptable, so that they have no reason to reduce their clients' thermal comfort. I will add that, of course - and we are also watching this very closely from the point of view of calculating how much we are going to spend next year to finance social services, when this energy item is a relatively important item - we are going to close this in about 14 days. So I believe that this series of measures will give no reason or fear at all that there would be a client somewhere who would be in some kind of heat discomfort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u117	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Will I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? Yes, he does. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u118	Thank you. I would like to share these joys with you, and I hope that it will not really come to a pessimistic option. However, the situation on the energy market is serious and I think it is certainly appropriate to have a pessimistic option prepared as well. This means that, for example, in January, the following year, there will be problems with providing heating resources. In that case, it would be really desirable that the MPSV prepares some methodology that will actually implement the founders and staff in how to provide basic physiological needs, because those seniors really are very fragile, and hypothermia, or hypothermia, is really one of the frequent geriatric syndromes that you can encounter in these homes. They don't often feel the cold. So I'm asking if in a situation where you find or know there's not enough energy, if you have a pessimistic option, that means you have some backup plan to help these devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u119	Thank you for your time and I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for a response to the supplementary question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u120	Thank you. So, of course, if there was a completely unexpected event that I can't actually imagine right now, even in the option that it would close completely, stop the gas supply from Russia to Europe, so we don't expect any reduction in thermal comfort for hospitals, social services, schools and so on. We are really in intensive communication with the largest energy producers, including heat, which is directly linked to the central heat supply, so we have taken steps to enable these heat plants to use other fuels than, for example, natural gas or biomass, so that they can return to the use of coal and so on. We haven't signaled anywhere yet that anyone might have a problem. If there is a problem, we will, of course, respond to it in cooperation with the regions, in cooperation with other founders for the benefit of those clients. But I say again, I don't like it when politicians come here - and the last example was from Germany, when AfD politician didn't turn off his microphone, I think it was yesterday or the day before yesterday, and he said it was unwittingly on the microphone, it's already getting on the air, that he wants it to be stiff winter, because it's going to be water for his AfD mill in Germany - so please, I'm not making it easy, I'm taking it seriously, we're ready to implement the steps that would lead us to take good care of our clients again. But let's not create the impression that the situation is critical, and we're supposed to scare people today by having a problem in terms of heat supply in social services or other public sector facilities. There is absolutely no reason for this now or in a situation that is not entirely simple, but we have taken all steps as a government to ensure that these people are truly well and well secured.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u121	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time and for answering. We're approaching another interpelation, and that's interpelation number 23. I would like to ask Mrs Lenka Knechtová to come to the speaker's desk and give her interview to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u122	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, my dear Minister, according to your statement from the press conference, schools should receive support from the state to pay for energy. The money should be obtained by their founder. What form of aid are you considering, what form should it take? You also mentioned that support should be given to primary, secondary and also to universities. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that primary schools are set up in the smallest municipalities, and they have very small budgets, and that is why we need to think about our mothers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u123	Thank you for keeping up with the time and presentation of the interpelation. I will now request the floor of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Vladimír Balaš. Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Madam President. Madame, ladies and gentlemen, if I did not mention kindergarten during the press conference, that does not mean that we would not be thinking about them. Indeed, it belongs to one educational system and, of course, the costs of energy and the activities of schools and educational establishments are part of the so-called operating costs that are normally borne by the founders' schools and receive funds within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. We assume that the amount for 2023 will be increased, that is one of those measures that will be necessary, but I suppose it is not only possible to rely on that - to some extent, Minister Jurečka answered here a little bit. The state will have to adopt and prepare a number of systemic measures to ensure enough energy for all public institutions, for all those who provide some public services of this nature, including kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools. I guess these measures will be a whole set, depending on the specifics... what it will look like in particular also depends on the agreement that is being worked on this weekend within the upcoming European Council on energy. I assume that the government's negotiations on this issue will take place in a short time, and in a short time, the proposal for legislative changes, which should secure these issues, will reach the Chamber of Deputies and Parliament in general. So I'm going to say that we're thinking about it, of course it's important. I understand that, as for the elderly, we also need to create conditions for children, but it does not concern from afar, this system measure, only children and seniors, it should concern each of us, each family, and not only households, but also entrepreneurs and, of course, large producers. And that's something that's not just in the Ministry of Education's mind, though the Ministry of Education is undoubtedly thinking about it. I recently received a challenge from the Association of Local Authorities, with the question of how we will proceed. In addition to the fact that we are planning system measures, one of the first steps will also be, and we are already preparing, to find out what situation this device will be in, what kind of setup it is, what problems it has, because energy purchases in individual regions are different in individual facilities - somewhere they buy it centrally, for example in the Ústí Region, elsewhere they buy it themselves, have different fixations and buy it differently. So we're even going to get an overview of where the situation is going to be, and then we're going to be able to deal with it individually. So I'm sure we're thinking about kindergarten. We can't forget them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u124	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Will I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? Yes, he does, so please. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u125	Minister, thank you very much. I would just like to point out that even the mayors of the municipalities are working very hard on this situation, even in kindergarten and primary schools, which need to be one-class, so I will really say budget help. So I really want to assure you that in the field we're saving really where we can, and we're keeping your fingers crossed to make sure you're doing well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u126	I also thank the Member at this time and ask the Minister for an answer. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: I just want to thank them, thank them very much and I believe that together we can manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u127	Thank you both for keeping time. We are coming to another interview, which is also for the Minister of Education, and at that moment I will ask Mr Martin Hájek to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u128	Madam President, honourable members of the government, Minister, according to information from a few months ago, the Czech Republic expected the arrival of some 130,000 children of Ukrainian refugees, which would mean almost one whole population year. According to your comments from last week, it looks like there's going to be about half of this estimated number of children after all. I therefore want to ask you whether our education is ready to accommodate these pupils and if you have already noticed any problems in the Ministry. Information from some media shows that in some regions, especially in Prague and Central Bohemia, classes that are composed exclusively of Ukrainian refugees had to be opened up, and this could create a problem with their integration. How does the Ministry of Education view these situations, and what does it do to ensure that children from Ukraine are successfully integrated? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u129	Thank you for the interview and the time, and I will ask the Minister of Education. Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I think you want to enjoy me today, it's my first interview. But thank you for asking, because discussing and clarifying these questions is important. The Ministry of Education regularly monitors how many children are registered, had some prerequisites, indeed, sometimes at the end of the last school year it looked up to the 130 000, but the number is constantly changing, some families are leaving, others are coming. Currently in terms of tables, and we even have according to registration as at 30. 6. according to individual ORPs, according to regions, how many children in which school or in which ORPs there are. Somewhere the problem is bigger, somewhere worse. As far as numbers are concerned, there are about 10 185 Ukrainian children registered in kindergarten so far, but some of them have stopped visiting the kindergarten, so on some date, by 6. 9. - we're gonna have solid data 15. 9. - that was 9,038. With regard to primary schools, with those who have actually been admitted and who have not gone, it is 42 614 pupils in primary schools, in secondary schools it is 4 037, at the 105 conservatory and at the 140, it is 55 898. He kind of stopped us from having a problem with high school. It seems to us that there should be more students in secondary schools, and the number of students there is about 25 to 30 per cent compared to the assumptions. So we tried to figure out what it was. The problem is, as we have learned, and they agree both data and research, and our independent research, that first of all it is not compulsory education, secondly children who are sixteen, 17 years old, go to Ukrainian schools online and their system is a little different, it is eleven-year-old with the fact that they then pass their graduation or final exam, apply to the university, and they are not paid to enter our secondary schools and they have to go through two years of study, because first they have to learn Czech and then the system is a little different. Another situation is with Ukrainian children and families who had backgrounds and whose children were involved in our system, others with those who didn't have ties here. It is also unclear whether or not they want to come back, so the situation is really very varied. We're trying to get more information. I said one problem is that Ukrajinec work on social networks other than we are used to, it's mainly Telegram, TikTok, so we've focused the contacts on these networks, and we're not only finding that some parents haven't gotten the information they have, but we're also finding out some opinions about why teenagers don't want to get into those schools, but that's typically their response. So they don't get paid, and they don't have to go to school with us, unlike kids who are in primary schools. [[16.50 hours]] But anyway, you mentioned the homogeneous classes. That's only a problem somewhere, most of these ORP schools have, say, one to five Ukrainian children, but there are really 30 of them somewhere. And as far as integration is concerned, it is, of course, difficult. So we also have these data, and we are also trying to reach out to Ukrainian educators who are here, or assistants... but what I wanted to say, yes... those homogeneous classes will sometimes be necessary, and their integration will have to take place not through basic education online, but through extracurricular activities, because we understand that education is a much broader concept, not only the acquisition of information, but also social skills. So I'm sure we'll continue to do that, and we'll see. The number will stabilize around mid-September, there are many problems. The biggest problem is probably Czech in some cases, but for smaller children it is a minor problem, there they spontaneously manage it, for others it will probably be bigger, and in emergency situations it will be necessary to first learn Czech and then start going to school again. But we are constantly dealing with individual questions and we are trying to communicate both directly and through the Ukrainian embassy. [[Prime Minister, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u130	Thank you for keeping time. I will ask the Member - he does not want to ask an additional question, thank you. So it was another interpellation. And now we come to the interview number 24... 25, by Mrs. Jarmila Levko, and it is for the Minister of the Interior. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u131	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I have an interview, as has already been said here, on the Minister of the Interior, Mr Vít Rakušan, and on the issue of digitalisation, communication with the public administration, I mean the establishment of data boxes. At the very beginning, I would like to say that, of course, I am very pleased that digitalisation is moving forward, that is certainly a great achievement, but at the same time, I think that how successful it will be and meet its objective is largely dependent on how we can explain these steps to the public, to all the people involved. And I don't even think it's gonna be an easy task to take people across different ages, and maybe some of them have almost no or very little experience with information technology. So I'd like to ask the Home Secretary if he remembers this Ministry of the Interior, if he has any more massive information campaign prepared, or when it will start and what it will look like. That's the first question. And the second question is whether there will be any other support in addition to any information campaign - here I mean support for answers to questions or possibly additional assistance with the establishment and use of data boxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u132	Thank you, Madame, for the presentation of the interpelation and the observance of time. Now I would like to ask Minister Vít Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u133	Thank you for the floor. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is essential, it is true and it will not be very easy. The information campaign is already partially underway, we cooperate with the Czech Post, the Czech Banking Association, other stakeholders, we have created a communication plan with all affected entities. They are self-employed legal entities, natural persons with an electronic identity, and all of them are related to the establishment of a data box. That's just for starters, for the sake of a summary of who the matter is going to concern. In the spring of 2022 we started a close communication with the Association of Traders, with interest professional associations, which we first inform that this new obligation will exist for them. We offer support for information, education, or some other courses, whether on-line or physical. We have an agency, a professional agency that has prepared a complete strategy, a creativity, a media campaign plan. The most intense part will start at the beginning of November and will run until March 2023, this is the decisive period when a number of subjects will have to log into the system, and in cooperation with the Czech Post and the Czech Television was also prepared videospot to data boxes and it was already 6. 9th on the air. With the Czech Television, the Ministry of Interior has signed a memorandum on cooperation and a memorandum with the Czech Radio will be signed on an informative campaign. The plans are conferences, seminars. Of course, we are also aware of the communication risks that arise here, part of the strategic campaign, the so-called crisis communication, should all these measures not have a sufficient effect. And, of course, it needs to be realised that many citizens with this digitisation element have not had a personal experience yet. It also counts on the involvement of other authorities and authorities, which we will also ask for assistance throughout the campaign. They are part of the strategy and, of course, we are also willing to provide close synergies to individual employers' chambers. There is a precise plan - we have inherited a legal regulation that gives an obligation from 1. 1. and 1. respectively. 3., you really set up those data boxes. It's not gonna be very easy, but I think that eventually citizens and businessmen will finally appreciate it when they get rid of the initial fear that it's a very useful issue, because who among us uses data boxes knows that life, if one understands only a little bit, can make it much easier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u134	Thank you for answering and keeping time. Will I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? He doesn't want to, so we've dealt with the interview number 25. We are now at the next interview and I will ask that Mr Jan Berki come to the speaker's desk and give an interview to the Minister of Education. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u135	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Maybe I'll lighten things up a little bit. Looks like Professor Balaš is the biggest star this afternoon. But I am actually very glad that it is our educational system that is paying so much attention. My question to the Minister will remain in the wound of the energy crisis. You yourself, Minister, mentioned relatively recently that you know that universities are considering measures to touch on teaching, whether it concerns the adjustment of semesters or the use of online teaching. I am interested in your attitude or, where appropriate, the steps you are preparing in this context, especially in relation to the provision of teaching in specific subjects where physical activity or laboratory activity is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u136	Thank you for presenting the interpelation and keeping time. Now the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Vladimír Balaš, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'm a star, but I'm a university educator, so I know what it is to teach online or hybridly, and covid showed that while in the first half, when it was still commuting from regular teaching, the results were quite good, then it really got worse every month, even performances, and the attention of students. So teaching something different than him, I mean, actually, I don't think it would be quite good. The solution is, of course, firstly, that we will also provide available energy to universities and provide them with resources, and that is a task that is not only at the Ministry of Education, however we discuss it. I'm gonna have a meeting with the president of the Rectors' Council tomorrow with Professor Bareš and the Rector of Charles University, so we're gonna do this. I know that universities are concerned with the idea that they are not teaching on-line completely, but that they might need to move the semester - this one will not go back to warmer months. Not everywhere like the Czech Republic begins the semester in October, ends sometime at the end of February and starts in March and ends in May, but there are countries where start at the end of August. This, I think, could undoubtedly lead to quite considerable energy savings in universities, too, if those schools were to think about it, and they are thinking about it, of course. But in the extreme case, I understand that they are engaged in online teaching - the experience is here and I think they have the tools prepared for it, they have the lectures prepared for it, they know how to work with students online, but I still think it's not quite standard. [[17,00 hours]] Otherwise, of course, legislation allows such a possibility in the case of some emergency situations that are caused by crisis measures, such as emergency situations. Otherwise, everything about the online teaching is governed by the methodology of the National Accreditation Authority, which, however, assumes a presentation course, if possible. With regard to the information we have in this regard - we communicate with universities constantly through my deputy, Professor Wildová, who is in charge of the section of higher education, science and research - it is perceived that online teaching is not very good, perhaps even stressful, mentally burdensome students and demotivating. So if we could just do a little bit of power, we'd try to avoid it. It is not only a question of students, but also teachers, because when they teach from home, even higher demands are placed on the quality of the connection, it doesn't always work perfectly, it's extra costs, it's something we won't want. Otherwise, there are data about whether or not the students were satisfied in the past period, so there is really enough experience. Oddly enough students were satisfied, about 81 percent, and 66 percent has a strictly positive evaluation of online teaching. I can only imagine it as a hybrid option if someone is ill, so they join the class online. But it's not just physical health, it's also psychological, I think students are supposed to see each other in schools. So if it's even a little bit possible, we'll prefer other ways, and one of those ways is to shift the teaching of semesters and save energy when the teaching moves to warmer months, and the next systemic step, of course, is some central contractor at government level and some other measures that ensure energy at reasonable prices, but that's the question that's going to be addressed in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u137	Thank you, Minister. I'm going to ask at this point if there's any interest in the supplementary question? I see you do, so I'll ask the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u138	I'm just going to make sure that, in fact, at this point in time, the reflection on the longer-term adjustment of the semesters, not just the one-time thing this year?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u139	Mr. Secretary? Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: I think so, because this is a rational consideration. And I think we're gonna have energy problems not just this winter, but maybe even in the coming ones. In general, I think that we should also contribute perhaps to climate protection by not having to protopit the world. But it's true that another problem can be in stone universities that have old buildings that are unheated, different in new ones. So maybe some renovations and investments in college infrastructure would be in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u140	Thank you, Minister. So we approach another interpelation and I would ask that Mr Richard Brabec come to the speaker's desk, who will give an interview to the Minister of the Environment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u141	Thanks for the word. Madam President, fellow Members, this time from another case, Madam Secretary, and from the name of my intervention, I think it is sufficiently clear what I would like to ask. The catastrophic fire in the Czech Switzerland National Park also attracted attention, among other things, to a topic that may not have been so well known for the wider public, and it is actually logistics at all or access to the Pravčická Gate. While I was still working at the resort, I commissioned a study to evaluate alternative possibilities of access to this amazing natural monument so that it was possible to consider whether there really was only one option of access through private property. This study, according to my information, which I also have from the region and which also appeared in the media, should already be in the world, perhaps even represented by the mayors or regions in general before this disaster. And so I wanted to ask if it was really available because the client was a national park and possibly the Ministry of the Environment, and what it actually shows is whether there is an alternative option and how the Ministry of the Environment will proceed on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u142	Thank you for the interview and for the time being, and at this point I will ask the Minister of the Environment, Mrs Anna Hubáčková. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u143	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by thanking everyone who helped put out what helped handle this big crisis situation, this biggest forest fire, especially the Ministry of the Interior, its files, firefighters, cops. We have those who can handle crisis situations, a lot, including the Ministry of Defence, which helped us, including the Ministry of Agriculture and, of course, many other subjects. I didn't get the information until then that access to the Pravčická Gate was through private property. Then it began to appear in the media and at the time of the fire I did not know about the assignment or termination of the project, which aimed to evaluate the access alternative paths to the Pravčická Gate. Then I was assured that it existed, and at the beginning of August, the designers themselves introduced it to me. It is a study which, of course, was made before the fire, responded to the condition as it was, proposed an alternative access route. I don't know if it would be usable after the fire right now, because part of those roads were guided even by ladders, along a rock cliff. We have not yet made the entire national park available to be sure - and now it is close to the Pravčická Gate - to make sure that this is technically and safely possible. That's the first thing. Second, whether we would even go into such a relatively technically demanding but not safe versions at all. It would mean building an alternative path first, then building the pavement - overall at a time, I would almost say, before the biggest increase of CZK 40 million, I think that now the cost of this trip would be even greater. But at the same time I say, even this alternative path will end if someone wants to get to the Pravčice Gate on private property, so almost unsolvable. And in terms of access to the Pravčická Gate, we do not have yet checked and statically evaluated the access routes. In this project it was already shown that one of the access routes leads through a section that is actually not stable enough before the fire, and we would still have to repair this section of the road, let alone after the fire, and there we haven't gotten there yet. [[17.10 hours]] So it will be a great challenge for us to correct the access roads existing, whether to still think about it - and how seriously - the debate has not yet been conducted on the subject of any further continuation. If the mayors were introduced, it wasn't me who introduced them, so I don't really know their opinion on this project documentation. But I think we still have an evaluation of the entire intervention and access routes, security, sometime by the end of September, and by then both access routes will be closed to the public. Then it will begin security assessments and stability checks of certain sections that have been evaluated badly before the fire, let alone after the fire.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u144	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I'll ask if there's an interest in an additional question? It's not. So, at this point, we're going to move on to another interview, and I'm going to ask that Mr. Petr Letocha come to the speaker's desk, and I'm going to say that he's having an interview with the Home Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, by 2027 there are basically elections every year. This year they are municipal elections, in January we have presidential elections, in 2024 they are Senate elections and so on. I see the work in electoral legislation as very important and I wonder what changes the Ministry of Interior is preparing in the field of elections. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u146	Thank you for presenting the interpelation and keeping time. At this point, I'm going to ask the Minister of the Interior to come to the speaker's desk. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u147	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I am glad that Mr Letocha here has made the right decision, that elections will be held next year, because I, after the last time President Okamura spoke vehemently here, told us that next year will finally be a year when there will be no elections, so I believed him for a moment and forgot a little bit that we are voting for the President, head of state. So even next year the elections will be and it is good to realize it, because in the Czech Republic they are actually always chosen, and every year we have some type of election. I just want to say that what I'm going to say here right now isn't what's going to happen. This will be decided by the Chamber of Deputies, which will be decided by Parliament. This is just a proposal on which we agreed in the working group within the Ministry of the Interior in the Act on Election Governance, which is supposed to be some kind of means of reform of various processes. I'm sure there'll be a big discussion about it, but we'll come up with it as the Home Office. I say we come up with this and there's gonna be a debate, that's a legitimate procedure - a proposal for a one-day election. We are still voting in the Czech Republic for two days. We think we could approach the usual practice here, avoid the various potential dangers associated with the two-day elections. In any event, the proposal will be presented, but before that, the government will also be discussed. What will certainly happen regardless of whether or not there will be a one-day election is the creation of an information system of elections, which is a thing that could be very pleasant in issuing electoral certificates. If anyone wants a voter's ID, they usually want it because it's located somewhere outside the territory of their city, their community, but the voter's ID could only be picked up in their own city, in their own office, and so on. If this electronic system is specified, the issue of electoral certificates shall not be subject to local jurisdiction. This means that if you're in another city for a long time, you'll be able to pick up your voter card in another city and vote for it in peace. You won't have to go to an office in your hometown, which has often lacked logic, because the man was picking it up so he could just be out there. The election management information system will also help politicians, because we will no longer have to queue at the offices when submitting candidates' lists, electronic submission of candidates' documents will be allowed, and an online delegation to the precinct electoral committees will be possible, as will the electronic collection of signatures on petitions to support candidacy. This is a proposal that would, of course, simplify many. We want - once again - to see how Parliament and the government decide - to extend the vote from abroad to elections to the European Parliament. For the Senate elections and the election of the President of the Republic, we want to introduce one ballot on which all the candidates will be listed. And the proposal brings measures to support the right of disabled people with different types of disadvantages to vote in elections, such as informing auditory disabled voters in sign language and so on. At the same time, of course, we are also working on some of the relics that we inherited - the greater stability of the territorial definition of senate districts, where we know that there have been frequent changes. Sometimes people voted more often than elsewhere in certain regions, on the contrary, they did not vote for a long time, so their constitutional right to vote in the upper chamber of Parliament could also be called into question. We also want a firm deadline for the elections to the councils of local authorities in conjunction with the Senate elections. Now we all feel and see that these elections seem to be getting closer and closer to the summer months. This year we are already voting for the municipal elections in September, voted sometime eight years ago, now I'm guessing in mid-October. So we want to fix a logical deadline here, which also allows political parties to have some more time after the summer months and election campaigns. I just want to say that the Act on the governance of elections and amendments to electoral laws do not interfere with the electoral systems themselves. It is not an electoral revolution, it is an electoral evolution, it is a modernization of the system of elections in the Czech Republic, not a change in the system of elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u148	Thank you for your answer. I'll ask if there's an interest in an additional question? I see it's not, so we've dealt with another interpellation. And now I would like to have Mrs Margita Balaštíková come to give us an interview, and it is up to the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u149	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I've been here a couple of times, so I'm not gonna keep saying hello. Minister, in August, there was a termination of employment with the director of SZIF, Mr Martin Šebestyán. I would like to ask you whether you are aware that the above-mentioned director was already the director of your minister, Mr Jurečka. The former Minister of Agriculture Jurečka has always highlighted the work of szif as well as the work of Director Šebestyán and I ask you what is behind your decision to release a qualified worker at the time of the Presidency of the European Union, whose duties have not been commented on by ministers and the professional public. At the same time, I would like to know whether you are aware that SZIF is in a very difficult period because Green Deal will start to be implemented and the Czech Republic still does not have strategic plans to implement Green Deal. The SZIF awaits the setting, monitoring and evaluation of steps to meet the EU's objectives. It is necessary to implement new systems for applications of several dozen aids, which also means, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, creating several dozen new government regulations and resetting the rules for individual aids and applications to them. It also means creating several dozen new forms for applications. Is it possible to do this in terms where you lack time for all these above mentioned events without a problem when you get rid of the director who knows the whole issue? At the same time, farmers already needed to have strategic plans ready for spring, as is the case in other countries, in order to plan rotational practices, and animal production also needs to know a number of data from strategic plans for its activities. I'm not sure you're fully aware of what's going on with this step. My other questions are: Can everything be handled in terms so as not to suspend or delay payment of aid? And is there a tender for SZIF's CEO's seat yet? And the applicants are already registered, and at what time do you expect the new Director-General of the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund to be appointed? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u150	Thank you. The Minister for Agriculture is not present, so the interpellation will be dealt with in writing. Before I go to the next interview, I'd like to read the apologies I've received. Bělobrádek Pavel from 10.30 to 13.00 for work reasons, Oldřich Černý from 15.10 - working reasons and Tesařík Antonín from 16 to 18 - working reasons. And now we'd like to move on to another interview, and I'd like for Mr. Vladimír Zlínský to come to the speaker's desk, who has an interview with the Secretary of Defense. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u151	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, could you please explain to us how the Ministry of Defence wants to ensure a sufficient number of properly trained citizens, capable and willing to ensure the defence of our homeland in the event of NATO falling apart - even with the Soviet Union - or will we be threatened by another NATO state, as in the event of a dispute between Greece and Turkey and the impending conflict between these countries? As history teaches us, such large military alliances tend to fall apart because of the existence of other security interests of individual countries, especially in times of chaotic crises. What measures do you propose and implement to ensure that this preparation, especially the young generation, is able to play the most strategic computer games? Even if nothing against them, they might come in handy. Since general military training has been experienced by citizens over 40 years of age and over, it is difficult to imagine the possibility that the next war on our territory, which may take place here, will be a war on old men who will fight for their spoiled offspring. In what way and by what real measures do you want to provide education for patriotism, improve physical preparedness, mental resilience and defence readiness of the young generation in the shortest possible period so that we can respond flexibly and quickly to possible chaotic challenges in our own, in our immediate surroundings and in the world? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for presenting and keeping time. Madam Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová is excused, the interview will be completed in writing. I will now ask that a Member of Jan, who has an interview with the Minister of Health, come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u153	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I would just like to interpelise Minister Válek on the new health budget. In connection with vaccination against covid, it was said that the expenditure of Chapter 335 is increased by CZK 3.2 billion. In addition, the announced subsidy programme is CZK 335 million as a refund of the cost of monoclonal antibodies to non-state medical devices that would not be used, and that means they have been expirated and thrown out. For the same reason Bulovka hospital was also assigned 900 million crowns, which totals 1.2 million crowns thrown into the luft. Again in chapter 336 of the Ministry of Health, income is reduced by CZK 4.9 billion. I'd like to ask Minister Válek if he'd be so kind as to give us some sort of interpretation when he's available, how it is with the funding of health care, how much more money has actually gone and how much money has gone down in the health sector. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u154	Thank you for presenting the interpelation and keeping time. Interpelation has been made to the Minister of Health, who is excused, and it will be dealt with in writing. The next person to speak to is Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, and this interview is once again for the Minister of Health. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u155	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, sanitary stations fall within your grasp, and they are the sanitary stations responsible for compliance with the rules in their nationality, and therefore for compliance with the decree laying down the sanitary limits for the environment of certain buildings. It sets limits on chemical, physical and biological indicators for the internal environment of buildings. In addition to the temperature, it is the humidity of the environment, the presence of fungi, allergens and the presence of carcinogenic and other substances. Savings due to lack of energy and their expensiveness are constantly mentioned by everyone. We should wear a sweater, lower the temperature there to 18 or 19 degrees, and then perhaps the idea of heating the water to a temperature of 20 degrees lower. How these measures will respond to moisture in the rooms and the incidence of molds, I don't think I need to describe it to you. Nor do I need to explain to you how and when legionella bacteria are multiplying in water heaters and hot water distributions as such. And I certainly don't have to tell you what it looks like when this bacteria gets into the human body. Save and waste is right, but it should also be real and without impact on our health. How will you deal with any increase in allergic reactions and an increase in disease due to cold rooms? Do you even consider the effects of certain measures? In order to avoid contamination with legionella bacteria, proper water temperature should be ensured. Bacteria is not multiplied at temperatures above 55 degrees in water systems. How will an employee who is infected by this bacteria be able to proceed with low temperature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u156	Thank you for presenting the interpelation and keeping time. This interpelation will be dealt with in writing again. And now I will ask for Mrs Karla Maříková to come, who also has an interview with the Minister of Health. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u157	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, the hospital solves problems with future energy supplies. These are large price jumps, but there are also reports of the threat of a complete blackout and the outage of faculty hospitals. You even bet your ministerial post and said: If faculty hospitals don't have power, I won't be the Minister of Health. Faculty hospitals have the only certainty that they have power by the end of the year. With the new year, however, the existing contracts with suppliers expire and new ones are not on the horizon. Your spokesperson Ondřej Jakob said that the Ministry of Health is carrying out and will carry out centralized purchases for all its organisations. So far, no purchases for 2023 have been made. And I'm asking you, when are you gonna wait? Or are patients supposed to be getting ready to start freezing in hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u158	Thank you for presenting the interpelation and keeping time. This interpelation will be dealt with in writing again. And now I ask that Mrs Věra Adámková come to the speaker's desk, who has an interview with the Minister for Science, Research and Innovation. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u159	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have an interview for you, Minister Langšádlová, because you have a unique opportunity to link science and research through all departments - at least I assume you have that authority in your ministry or managed resort. Since the development of science and research is absolutely necessary for the further development of every society, of course also ours, and given that the current time gives us a number of questions that we do not know the answers to, I am obviously looking for them at the Minister for Science and Research. The position of this ministry, I suppose, is really such that it can connect all other ministries, because each other minister has only one gesture, cannot implement these connecting solutions there. Neither can the dean of any faculty. So my question is: firstly, what is the concept of the development of science and research for our republic in the next three years, dominantly for next year with regard to current issues of solutions both health, social and technical in our Republic? I'm sure there's a concept already. Secondly, I would like to know how the evaluation of science and research will be amended, because we all know that it is not clear, it is not clear in the world, it is not just our problem. The evaluation is constantly changing, the optimal path is being searched for. Once it's Hirschův's index, once an impact factor, which turns out it's not entirely optimal either. So, of course, I'm interested in the opinion of our Republic and the leadership of science and research in our country. And I would also like to know how we will support, or the ministry that you run will support, across the departments of undergraduate science and research, or the training of young bodies for science and research, including secondary schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u160	Thank you for presenting the interpelation and keeping time. Minister Helena Langšádlová is also excused, so this interview will be completed in writing. We're at another interpellation. I would like Mr Zdeněk Kettner, who has an interview with the Minister of Education, to come. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u161	Thank you, Madam President, for the second time today. Here's my question. There has been a report in the media that 6,000 teachers are missing in our education, which seems to me to be an over-numbered number - I feel that the problem is with teachers' appropriation rather than with their total number - and, at the same time, we may have 10,000 Ukrainian teachers at our disposal. Of course, this is offered in terms of teaching Ukrainian pupils, but I got the impression that the use of these Ukrainian teachers as a substitute for Czech teachers is considered, that is, to teach Czech children, which, when we have a comparison of the quality of education, so Ukraine, there is really disastrous, and since we are trying to increase the quality of our education, whether it will have the exact opposite effect. So I want to ask if it is really considered that Ukrainian teachers will teach Czech pupils. In what way will the Ministry of Education guarantee and qualification of these teachers in our schools and fear the impact on the quality of teaching in our schools?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u162	Thank you for presenting the interpelation and keeping time. I'll ask the Minister of Education for a reply. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, that would be amazing if we had 10,000 Ukrainian educators here and could teach only Ukrainian children in peace, but according to our information, and they are certainly not accurate, so here are some 580 teaching staff, which makes me feel like 340 teachers, and then there are some non-teaching workers who are registered in the system and can be assistants. Otherwise, if they were to teach Czech children, the same rules apply to them as to Czech teachers. For those Ukrainians who assist or are in schools and teach Ukrainian children, there Lex Ukraine has made an exception for the knowledge of Czech, which I do not think is so great - they should have some knowledge because they mediate contact between student Ukrainian or student and Czech teacher. But we're trying to address them through social networks again to find out how many there are, and I don't think they could teach Czech children without any more, because I'm not sure if the system is exactly like a terrible, pathetic one in Ukraine, it's probably a school from school. Otherwise they certainly have some subjects, I think they have quite a good mathematics in Ukraine. Maybe we could reach here, you don't need such a great knowledge of Czech, but some of it definitely does. I'm sure Ukrainian children will make good arrangements in English, which I also found when I was in some adaptation groups, until surprisingly, but to teach Czech children, so they must also learn Czech, so it is also out of the question. But I don't think that they could act as teachers in Czech schools without being able to speak Czech, that they would have proper accommodation, and if there is a chance to find some Ukrainian teacher who will meet these conditions, they will agree, so I would just like to, because Czech education really, as you said correctly, lacks people in certain applications. It's probably the most sensitive in some IT, and the competition is so big that schools, even though teachers don't pay so badly anymore and teachers don't leave, can't compete with companies that employ IT specialists. And we're gonna have to do something about that, we're probably gonna have to work more together with practice, even with the companies, so they can at least lend it to us because it's in their own interest. And when it comes to other subjects, we'll see. I think that those who want to stay here and want to complete their education, learn Czech, so use them will probably go. And the system problem, I guess we'll all have to deal with this together, because I understand that it's really hard for high-quality teachers in science to find them in general. But I don't think there are 10,000 of them and they could teach Czech children without more. No, I wouldn't have let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u163	Thank you for answering and keeping time. I'll ask if there's an interest in an additional question? It's not. So at this point, let's move on to another interpellation, and I'm going to ask for Mr Radek Koten to come in and have an interpellation with the Home Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u164	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, this week in the articles on the List, I have picked up a bit of a hint that Mr Erdogan is sending the Syřan here and so on, but I did not understand whether they are going in any Balkan way or where the Syřan are actually coming in here, and I would like to ask you this way whether there is an overview of where these migrants are going, which way they are going, because there is an increase from some 1,350 in comparison to last year, now on 31 August there were 3,652 and I suspect the day before yesterday even 150 Syřan have been detained somewhere around the Slovak border, so the pressure is really great and I would like it if there was any way to prevent this from happening here, so that you would take such measures so that those people would not actually get to us in our territory. I'd like to ask you one more interesting question. We were at the press conference of the YES or YES party today, so we witnessed the resignation of the Vice-President through it, and I keep asking myself whether we are not measuring the same metro here, because you are actually Chairman of the STAN movement. You could say that you knew about the cases your party had, and you wouldn't resign. That's my second question. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u165	Thank you for keeping up with the time and presentation of the interpelation. I will now request the reaction of the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u166	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I am not an expert on the Rules of Procedure, Madam Vice-President, I do not know to what extent further questions may be added during oral questioning, which have not been announced, but, of course, I will answer the honourable Member and I will be happy to answer both questions, although I am a little concerned that the answer to the first one will take a vast majority of the time, because I have been preparing for this, you have announced here, Mr Vice-President, through the Vice-President, and I wanted to give you a comprehensive answer. From the beginning of the year to the end of August, 5 386 persons were identified during transit illegal migration, of which 4 716 persons are from Syria, showing that the Syrian element is the strongest, and we have clear reports that are confirmed by the services and all the authorities designated to do so, that it is not in the overwhelming majority of more than 90 percent of the Syřan coming here to Central Europe from Syria, but that it is the Syřan coming to us from Turkey, where they have been staying for some time and where Turkey has abolished the institute in the quotes of temporary protection they had there. At a time of economic crisis, which is also affecting Turkey, Turkey is also trying to find some ways to say not entirely simplify life for these people in their territory. And that agreement, which has historically been concluded here at European level, is no longer valid. This is a matter that is unsolvable at a different level than the overall European level, which means that, firstly, the Commission has to deal with Turkey. That's the first thing that has to happen. We're talking about hundreds a day. I spoke to the Austrian Interior Minister, where there are thousands of dollars a day. Thousands a day! And the difference is that these people who pass through here aren't asking in the vast majority of cases for any residence status, and that's a big difference. There are hundreds of thousands of asylum applications in Austria every day, not in our country, the migration is transitory. [[17.40 hours]] You ask about the route, so in the vast majority of cases Hungary is the country of first entry into the European Union. This is mapped out, and that is why we still have a contingent of Czech policemen present in Hungary, which we do not humiliate, and long-term praise for the Hungarian representation, Czech police officers in large numbers help to protect the external borders of the Schengen area in Hungary and, of course, we will continue to cooperate here. Yesterday I dealt with the Slovak Interior Minister and I strongly asked him to respect the readmission agreement that exists and is concluded between the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Slovák, from our point of view in the past few weeks, have done the readings, say, lukewarmly. They were also lukewarmly guarded on their side of the territory at the border as such. Yesterday it was agreed with the Slovak Interior Minister that joint Czech-Slovak patrols will be introduced, which on both sides of the border will carry out checks, increased checks. This is not a renewal of border controls, but before the border, so that the Slovák have an overview of who wants to leave their territory. And, of course, I also pointed out that there are extreme solutions that no one wants, because the Czech Republic and Slovakia are close to each other, the open border is very natural due to history, and we do not want anybody to close down in any way. We did a 48-hour exercise that closed the border, and there were classic standard controls. Logically, it slowed down traffic very much, and it made life very difficult for ordinary people who work in the Czech Republic, Slovakia. Yes, but even this is the ultimate solution at a time when we're not fulfilling our obligations. The next solution is - I have only 23 seconds left - that we will be on the Central European V4 format plus Austria discussing how to help Hungary cope with the wave. But the last thing is European politics, return policy, that is, the policy of returning those people to the country of origin, but this requires a change in European asylum law. [[Vice-President: Minister, time.]] That is certainly what we will try to do within the Presidency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u167	Thank you. I'd like to ask if there's an interest in an additional question? Yes. I'll ask the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u168	Thank you for your answer. It can be said that I would still be directing my question, which part of the border to Hungary those Syrian refugees are flowing, whether from the side, how strongly it is guarded, or whether, for example, they are not going through Romania or from which side, because the Hungarian border is quite long enough. And I don't know exactly which part, whether just the part with Serbia or some other part, is protected in exactly the same way by Hungary, so I'd be heading there for the supplementary question, because it's hard to tell if they can actually cross Slovenia and then somehow get from that side to Hungary. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u169	Thank you for your follow-up. I'll ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u170	If we are talking to the Hungarian side, there is really all Hungarian border under attack at this point, whether from the side of Romania, so also the one that is, let's say, quite consistently covered, but also there, of course, sometimes there is penetration, and the attack and pressure on that border is constantly happening. But I still want to say the measures that I didn't have time to say which ones we're planning. Firstly, strengthening Frontex in these countries, for further appeal to Hungary, so that even in this unpleasant situation, the Slovak readmis can be accepted again, because otherwise we will not be able to get out of this - so that we can address the situation in the first country of entry where the person gets to, and not move the story further into Europe. I also wanted to say that we will have a conference of the Prague process in October in Prague, which is bold with its concept. It is not only an EU conference, but we invite the countries of the Western Balkans to the conference because the Western Balkan migration route is simply problematic and we need to focus on it, we invite the Central Asian countries to the conference and we invite Turkey to the conference, so it can be assumed that mostly in contact between Turkey, Greece and Cyprus there will certainly be very conflicting situations and not only formal negotiations, and the Czech Republic and the Czech Presidency are dedicated to this. I just want to make sure it's a transit migration. I have 28 seconds to keep you from saying I ran away from your question, and I'm happy to answer that. The Stan Movement has been dealing with its problems from the beginning. We had the Minister of Education, who for this reason, without any gestures and excuses, resigned, resigned in the order of two days. And I, unlike other politicians, have no contact with anyone other than our former member, the disfellowshipped Petr Hlubuček, neither with Redl, nor with the others in the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u171	Thank you for your answer. Based on your question here, I would like under the Rules of Procedure: § 101 states that the topic of the submission of the interview must be part of the oral interview application. There is nothing else in the Rules of Procedure. So now we'd like to move on to another interpellation. At this point, I will ask Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová, who will present an interview with the Minister of Culture. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u172	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, and thank the Minister for staying here until the end. I didn't even expect it to come to us, but I appreciate you being here. The subject is quite simple, although the volume of information will probably be large. Please do not take my question in any way confrontationally, I would only be interested in your view and opinion of the National Theatre and the state in which it is located, because, of course, the covido years have signed up for the National Theatre's management, and I would like to know, for example, the outcome of last year 2021 and how you want to address the negative path or the negative outcome of the management, which so far shows, because, of course, the onset of the energy crisis is not too shabby for better times. That's one of my questions. The next question to you is about the size of the contribution organization of the National Theatre, where the Estates Theatre and State Opera belong next to the National Theatre itself. Maybe I am not convinced that this is the right way to go, which was done in a hurry and in a rather special way by the ministerial decision - whether or not you are considering, for example, the State Opera itself. Then I would be interested in your opinion on the artistic level of the National Theatre, because, as with me, there must be negative public response to the production of some operas, but mainly to the occupation of singers and actors at the National Theatre. This is especially about the opera, where the problems are quite large and the negative responses from the professional public are also significant. [[- Please, time.]] Yes, thank you. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u173	Thank you and I will now request the reply of the Minister of Culture, Mr Martin Baxa. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u174	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, honourable Members, through the Vice-President. The topic of your interpelation, as stated in the application, is very general, so I could not prepare to comment on the results of the National Theatre's management for 2021. But I think the result wasn't entirely wrong because they got the contribution organizations of the Ministry of Culture relatively large covido support at the time. And if you wish, we will, of course, give you the number. I don't know about him completely. As for your other questions, I'd split it into three parts. The first is actually the existing form of the National Theatre as a contribution organization in terms of organizational structure. The decision to merge the State Opera and the National Theatre, or to join these two organizations or to merge the State Opera with the National Theatre, was made years ago on the basis of some analyses. I think at the time, those who suggested it knew why they were doing it. I have already taken control of the Ministry of Culture with the National Theatre in this form, and I want to make it public that I have no intention of changing this state of affairs. This would be a very difficult operation for which at the moment I do not see any reasons or see any strong arguments. [[17.50 hours]] With regard to the artistic level and situation in the individual sets of National Theatre, I think we have already talked about this topic here once during the interviews, I, as Minister and once Mayor of the City of Pilsen, honoured and honoured the autonomy of the directors of the contribution organizations in what belongs to their full scope, and this is both the personnel policy and the dramaturgy of individual organizations, in this case the theatre. Yes, the National Theatre is the largest state cultural institution of its kind, of course, it is the largest Czech theatre, it is logically the centre of attention of the theatre community and the numerous audiences who visit them. Fortunately, I must say, I am very pleased with how high the attendance rate is in the long term, the National Theatre, and this logically triggers various reactions. So from time to time, I get complaints about what the artistic level of individual performances is, there are different media feedbacks. I simply accept that this is the autonomy of the leadership of the National Theatre and Mr. CEO Burian and his colleagues. I must add, of course, that in addition to the performances that give, say, some more media attention in the sense that you asked, there are, of course, a number of performances that I've got other kinds of ideas for - whether I couldn't get tickets to the Bouquet if I said it simply or to the Audience at the Queen's. There's just great pieces in there, too. So it was the organizational breakdown, the personnel questions, and that's about it. I think I have answered or responded to everything that the Member has mentioned here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u175	Thank you, Minister. Will I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? I see you do. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u176	Thank you for your answers. It's not gonna be a question, it's gonna be a request if you could send me the results for 2021 and 2020 so I can compare the covido and povido years, because according to Director Burian, the management doesn't look so good, at least based on what he told me. So I'll be grateful for that. I'm also interested in a list of sponsors and National Theatre sums. That's what I think is going into the budget, and you should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u177	At this point, I'm going to ask for the Minister of Culture's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u178	Thank you. I know what I didn't answer in response to your question, and that's this year's management. There, of course, was a dramatic increase in energy prices, and there was another fact, and that it did not actually recover to the extent that foreign tourism in Prague, which was heading towards the National Theatre, especially to the State Opera, so that the mix or cocktail of higher income and higher spending has, of course, not a very good effect on the National Theatre. The drug has been selected twice. We as the Ministry of Culture, both in the draft amendment to the state budget for this year and from our sources we are releasing money which will also go to the National Theatre, and as I was talking about the autonomy of the National Theatre, the National Theatre decided to increase ticket prices during the holidays. I believe that in performance performances by about 15 percent, in ballet by 15 percent, in opera performances the prices will increase by 15 percent from January 2023. I firmly believe that we will manage to keep the National Theatre's economics in black numbers this year, after all, it is a contribution organization, so it should be, and I think we will definitely manage that, and we will send you the data you require, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u179	Thank you, Minister. Thank you for answering and keeping time. We're at another interpellation. I would ask that Mr Radek Koten come to the speaker's desk, who will present an interview with the Minister of Health. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u180	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear absent, Minister, in the media, even in the media of the middle stream, they appear quite considerably - as I would say - well, there is basically information there that could scare some people, because in the Czech Republic it appeared as a newly eradicated disease of diphtheria. It can be said that such diseases, such as TB, HIV, and so on, have occurred recently. Probably many people can find some connection with the refugee wave from Ukraine to us in the Czech Republic. I want to ask you this way whether you have monitored the health of those people who are already using our health system for the so-called patience in the Czech Republic, and whether you have calculated the cost of these eradicated, now you have completely real diseases in the Czech Republic and what danger the population of Czech children is at risk, because I am not quite sure whether we have diphtheria vaccinations or TB vaccinations. So that's my question, and I hope to receive an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-015-171.u181	Thank you for keeping up with the time and presentation of the interpelation. Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek is excused, so it will be dealt with in writing. Since, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the last question can be submitted at the latest at 17.55 and is at this time 17.56, at this time, I note that we have completed the oral questioning for today's day. I'd like to thank you all, wish you a lovely evening, and I'd like to make one last apology. Mr Antonín Tesařík apologizes from 16 to 18 hours for work reasons. Thank you.
