ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, Act No. 16/1993 Coll., on Road Tax, as amended, and Act No. 201/2012 Sb., on air protection, as amended /house print 204/ -- first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I see that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, have already sat at the table. I would now like to point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. And now, under the authority of the Government, I would like the proposal put forward by the Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u2	Thank you for the floor. This bill is another reaction from the government to rising fuel prices, which are rising mainly as a result of Russia's aggression on Ukraine. This bill within contains three changes to the law. I'm a petitioner, and I'm assigned to the government. From my department are actually proposed two changes to the laws and the third one is from the resort of the environment. The first change is a change in income tax relating to the benefit scheme for low-emission vehicles. We're actually proposing two measures here. These are measures that we discussed with the Car Industry Association, which I think are going in the right direction and bring economic incentives for employers to invest from their own resources in low-emission vehicles. The first thing is to shorten the depreciation period of the charging stations, when today the depreciation period is ten years in the depreciation group number 3. We're suggesting we shorten it to five years, which means transferring these stations to the depreciation group number 2. [[12.10 hours]] And the second thing is the income tax on employees. As many of you know, if an employer provides a service car for private purposes to his employee, this employee pays a monthly income tax of 1 per cent of the cost of the vehicle. Logically, since low-emission vehicles are more expensive than classic vehicles with classic engines, the interest among employees is not very high. We propose that we reduce this by half in this case, that is, if the employer provides this vehicle to the employee, that this employee pays 0,5 per cent per month of the purchase price, and not 1 per cent. This is the promotion of low-emission mobility. The second proposal is a law designed to reduce costs in particular to small entrepreneurs and commercial corporations operating service vehicles with the highest permissible weight up to 12 tonnes. Yesterday we talked a little about this at the point where we were discussing a reduction in excise duty. This means that the road tax remains only for trucks which are used for the carriage of goods with a total authorised mass of 12 tonnes and tractors with a maximum authorised mass of 16 tonnes or more. Newly, no passenger cars, cars up to 12 tons, but also no buses, which is such indirect support for public public transport. At the same time, if approved, the Road Tax Act will lead to a reduction in the administrative burden, because today the tax is paid in five advances. We propose that it be due only once, which means that every taxpayer does not have to pay and watch the dates five times a year, because at the time the government approved this proposal, I decided as Minister of Finance for the remission of advance payments on the road tax, because if the bill was approved, the 15th April was the first term, then the Financial Administration would have to pay all taxpayers who would have paid the advance on the road tax under the law, and it would have been unnecessary administration. And the third draft of the law is the amendment of the Act on Air, where I can say that the proposal is in accordance with the law of the European Union. There are two, maybe three basic points I'd like to mention. Firstly, we are repealing the obligation to mix biofuels and bio-oil. For biofuels, these are first-generation biofuels. Of course, I read and see the statements of opposition Members, but I must say that their arguments against this proposal seem weak to me, because I would understand it if they strongly protested at the moment when we banned the incorporation. We're just canceling our duty, and that's two completely different regimes. It will depend on each of the taxpayers from which pallets they have because they have to meet the emission targets they choose. The debate, if it were sharpened, I think it's useless. We don't have to convince ourselves if anyone's gonna do it or not, and whether it's liquidation or liquidation isn't. We're just canceling our duty, leaving an option, I don't think there's anything wrong with that. And we can also apply an individual approach here, or a particular taxpayer can apply it. I'm sure we'll talk about it. You all know that there must be 6 percent of the bio-components today under the law in diesel oil and 4.1 percent of the bio-components in diesel petrol plus there are other emission targets, to which the Czech Republic has committed itself as a state and to which the obligations of individual distributors also bind. And the second thing I would like to mention is delaying the effectiveness of the obligation to operate selected combustion and stationary sources. This is for small sources of power up to and including 300 kilowatt, and this applies especially to family house operators, housing houses or buildings for family recreation and also in response to what is happening to gas prices at this time of the war in Ukraine, we propose to postpone this obligation by two calendar years. I've been informed that the veto will fall. If not, I will, of course, be glad, because the Government would like to discuss this in the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Section 90 para. 2. If so, I would like to report that, in the course of the debate, I will then read a shortening of the deadline between first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Munzar, and allow me to welcome you with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief. This proposal, this press, has been submitted to us by the government, our House, on 13 April of this year. As the Minister said, there are three amendments to the laws and five specific measures in total. These specific measures have been described very cleverly by the Minister, so I don't have to add anything to this, and that concludes my intelligence report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I hereby open a general debate. President Schillerová has applied with priority rights. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start by saying that there's probably some kind of communication going on because the veto isn't going to fall. I made it clear to the representatives of the five-wheelers yesterday. [[The Minister's response.]] It's okay, it's not a complaint, it just didn't get to you, you have a lot of other worries. I understand that, and I'm not blaming it. I'm just saying, the veto won't fall. The YES movement will not - and this is how I consulted the other opposition club - that we will not proceed like this, which does not prevent me from expressing myself on the proposal and very politely asking you to comment on what I am going to ask here. Alternatively, my colleague Mrs Peštová will also respond, because she understands more about the incorporation of the bio-component than I do. I think we've been saying this for a long time yesterday, so I'm not going to repeat it here today that we have the third highest rate of inflation and that we are the proponents - and in this we are also ideally different in opinion - in order to proceed to more substantial measures, to horizontal measures, as many countries do, including now our closest neighbours and partners - Slovakia. So I'm not gonna say it again, 'cause we said it enough here last night. Of course, if you reopen it, it's not a problem for us to repeat it, but it's pointless. I'm more interested in sticking to the proposal. He actually, as you said, contains several points. I say we don't veto, and we even actively support the proposal. That's what I want to bring up the debate. So now I'm going to ask questions that are not clear to me or that we completely misunderstood. The fact that you, Minister, have forgiven the advance payments, that is, of course, all right, that is logical. It would really be silly if there were backups and then the tax was lifted. I suppose you were also general - I didn't verify it - that you also forgave all the sanctions that would possibly result from the non-payment, but that's the practice we did at the Ministry of Finance for covido and experts know it, so I'm pretty sure they prepared it for you as well as for me. That's good, and that's good. The amendment to the Road Tax Act - which is to some extent part of the area measure, if I am not mistaken - will touch some of the over 800,000 taxpayers, if I have looked up the numbers correctly. I'm sure you're more specific. I understand that you are limited in the considerable remission of European regulations, too. It is not essential to help, it simply helps those who are taxpayers of road taxes. I'm saying there's over 800,000 of them. And while we support it, I'm saying, it's not some big-ass area aid. [[12.20 hours]] What I don't understand a little bit, and I stopped by the press conference yesterday, so I'm going to repeat it to you, why did it take so long? This is not a complex regulation or any complex preparation, experts can write it quite quickly. You guys've already announced it six times. 4. that you will do it so that we can deal with it today, so I think it could have been faster. But okay, here we go. What is essential, however, I would like to and I would like to ask you to make a clear statement on this. You know - and we've already touched this here several times - that this money will mean a hole in the SFDI budget. The last time I said 4.2, you fixed me - 3.8, but I think you're talking about the $4 billion, but it doesn't matter, it's some kind of amount that changes in time and time. That's why I said 5 billion wrong yesterday, because I added 900 million to it, of course, that was my fault, you were right. But we're already on some $5 billion. So if you would, when you get off, which I certainly believe you will, and thank you in advance, then if you would say how you would replace SFDI, because 5 billion is a lot of money for SFDI. And you worked in the SFDI bodies, and I know that we've had a debate over his budget many times in the last parliamentary term, so I'm sure you know that we can't afford 5 billion to lose them to SFDI, and I'm sure you'll find some way to deal with it, as part of an amendment to the State Budget Act. As for the abolition of the mandatory addition of biofuels, I will leave that to my colleague Berenice Peštová, the technical details. But here is another question: Why, please, Minister, is this part of this amendment? Why isn't it just an amendment to the Air Protection Act, I say it right, the law, if not, so don't be angry: Why are we just putting it here and why are we leaving it there? You've said so many times - unfortunately, Minister Síkela isn't here, who spoke more about it than you are - that you will cancel the obligation, so why is that possibility left behind? I think I know why I'm going to let my colleague run the debate, but I don't quite understand. So what are the reasons? Why is there a possibility? Why don't you just cancel it and do it explicitly with the law that solves it? Why is it simply done in this form of a sticker? I don't understand. And what effect does it have, how does it help citizens, how does it show up at that price, when it's actually just a possibility? My next question - and maybe Mrs Peštová will fill it in, so the questions will be more professional and more qualified than I am - will it not raise the dependence on Russian oil? I wonder if this is really the right move? And if so - and I say that we will vote in favour and at first reading, so don't give us any second thoughts at all - then why didn't you just explicitly cancel the obligation, why are you leaving that possibility there? Then I have to the next part where you promote low-emission mobility and go within the depreciation group number 3 to the depreciation group number 2 for electric cars. Again, we don't have a problem with that. I would just ask here, Minister - I have already asked the experts on the Committee on Budgets, but you are the Minister, you are giving political assignments to colleagues, so if you confirm here - these are questions from the representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the Confederation of Industry and Transport. You know, even with your support in the last parliamentary term, we've put in place an accelerated write-off for two years. It was the right move, we helped cash flow entrepreneurs, and it is slowly coming to an end. There was a promise on the budget committee that you would extend it, because the pressure from both the Chamber of Tax Advisors and the Confederation of Industry and Transport is great, I understand it. You supported our proposal at the time - together we agreed on it - so if you would be so kind as to confirm here that you are counting on it or when it will be presented. So that would be my next question. And I guess that's all there is to it. We have no problem with delaying the efficiency of the obligation to operate selected combustion stationary sources and we will support it. Again, they are cosmetic changes, they will not help in any way, but they will be supported by the YES movement and supported at first reading. If you answer my questions or add my colleague Berenika Peštová, I would be very happy and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u7	Thank you, Madam President, and another party to the debate is Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, we will get a little bit of history to immerse ourselves when the biofuels came into our world. So it's 23 o'clock. 4. 2009 Directive 2009/28 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the so-called RED, was adopted, according to which each Member State shall ensure that the share of energy from renewable sources in all modes of transport in 2020 is at least 10 per cent of the final consumption of energy in transport, in petrol, in diesel, biofuels consumed in road and rail transport and electricity. The Gestor of this directive is the Ministry of Industry. However, on the same day, Directive 2009/30 was adopted on the quality of fuels, according to which fuel suppliers must reduce greenhouse gas emissions annually by 6 per cent by 2020 compared to the basic standard for fossil fuels. This target will be achieved by the biofuels, the incorporation of biofuels. The Gestor of this directive is the Ministry of the Environment. Slowly we get to the present year or to the next year, i.e. until 2018. According to the directive of the European Union, Parliament and Council 2018/2001 on promoting the use of energy from renewable sources, we already have RED II, each Member State must ensure that the share of energy from renewable energy sources in transport in 2030 is at least 14 percent. So from the RED I, from the 10 percent, we got to 14 percent. This objective can be achieved by biofuels and renewable electricity consumed in road and rail transport, and most of the target is expected to be met by biofuels. Furthermore, the directive allows classic biofuels to be taken into account in these objectives up to 7 per cent of the energy consumption in transport. It is thus clear that the European Commission continues to expect support for classical biofuels, so that the minimum share of biofuels in Section 19 (2) is maintained. 1. It also maintains some certainty about the predictability of the business environment, especially in the agricultural sector. Czech farmers need long-term certainty in the planning of rotational practices. In the event of the abolition of the minimum shares of biofuels, there would be a risk that some farmers will not sell their already sown crops, in particular - I am not talking about beet - especially in the case of sugar beet, for which there is not enough room for other uses. [[12.30 hours]] For the successful transposition of the RED II directive, the Ministry of Environment has had the strategy of optimal use of renewable energy sources in transport by 2030. The strategy processor was the University of Chemistry and Technology in Prague. The strategy shows that the desired objectives in the share of OZ cannot be achieved without conventional biofuels. So let me get this straight. Here is the submitted amendment to the Act on Air, which has two paragraphs: § 19, which you now populically want to cancel from point (a) to point (e), and then we have § 20 and this paragraph tells us that fuel suppliers are obliged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 6 per cent each year. I did not understand much of the Minister of Finance, through Mr President, when he was talking about an individual approach of the taxpayer. What is the individual approach of the taxpayer? I don't understand. I'd like to explain it to him, and I'd be happy to respond. I would also like to know what other option is to fulfil this obligation than those biofuels. If you mean second-generation biofuels, we're going to talk about them, because the amount that's on our market is absolutely inadequate. And if we want to fight Russian oil, then my children in elementary school know that I'd rather mix than take it down. So if I want to fight, instead of the 7 percent, I'd put 10 percent in it, if I fought Russian oil, I'd fight dilution, but not by taking down this bio-component. So I'd like to hear some reaction from you, and I'm ready for a professional debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u9	Thank you, Madame, and the Minister is claiming priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u10	I will try to answer the questions that have been raised in the previous two speeches. If I forget some of them, I'm sorry, and I'm gonna say it again. Why is it in one package? Because it's a comprehensive government response to rising fuel prices. It is not unusual that, when the government adopts a more comprehensive solution, it changes several laws. It's in one law. There's no way it's a sticker, because three amendments to the law are being dealt with in that law. Madam President Schillerová wants me to say publicly here that the SFDI will not lose the money. I don't know if I'm gonna have to sign it and put it on display, frame it and send it to the club YES. When I say at the government's public press conference that the SFDI budget will not be reduced, I don't know what to say, except that I have notarized it. Yes, I can say it for the third time, for the fourth time, for the fifth time, over and over again. It's true, nothing's changed. That's just the way it's gonna be. I forgot to say in the introductory words, and I apologize that we also put non-public charging stations in the overall reporting of emission reductions, which has not yet been done. We have a record of these non-public charging stations, so it's for tax reasons. We are able to distinguish this very well and we are able to include non-public charging stations in the Czech Republic's overall balance and thus contribute to the calculation of how we meet emission targets. I don't know what's incomprehensible to elementary school kids, when I say that when someone has a variety of options, he chooses which one of those options he uses individually. I don't know what's so semantically complicated about this science that anyone wouldn't understand. There are several ways to meet the objectives set by law. I'll name them if you want, I'll just turn it over so I don't forget something. So it can be a mandatory incorporation or incorporation of biofuels through LPG, CNG, electricity, recycled fuels, renewable fuels of unbiologic origin and also by reducing emissions from oil or gas extraction. These are all the options that the subject who has the obligation has at its full disposal. And when I say it's individual, he chooses so much from that palette, and those methods and tools that, at his discretion, will contribute to achieving those goals. There's nothing further to explain. If anyone doesn't understand, I don't know what to say anymore. You have five options, and you have to use the five options to meet the basic objective. And if you pick the first and you have it in 100 percent, it's your individual decision, if you use the first in 80 percent, 10 percent second, 10 percent third, it's your individual decision again, and this way I could calculate an infinite, not infinite, but final combination of these methods, and it's up to a particular subject. I think that's perfectly understandable. We have made one more change, and in order to reduce red tape, we are actually removing the obligation to ensure a minimum share of biofuels per calendar year and per calendar quarter, and to maintain the obligation to ensure a minimum reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from delivered fuels. I think it's logical, sensible, and it reduces bureaucracy. I hope I haven't forgotten anything. If so, if the question is repeated... [[Ms Schiller from the bench: Write-offs.]] Write-offs, so it's the same thing as the SFDI statement. At tripartite, we told the social partners, both employers and employees' representatives, that this would be the case in 2022. At this point, it's being worked on, but since we proposed this bill in the '90s, and thank you for not vetoing it, I had some other information, but I say, even if it were, we'd deal with it somehow. But thank you for that. We think that when we need to decide on depreciation, that it is better to go through the standard legislative process, and that is why we did not put it in this amendment, because when you put it in the 90s, you actually rule out the possibility of debating it and, if necessary, after the debate in the Committee on Budgets or in plenary, to modify the proposal in some way. But we're counting on it, it's in the legislative work plan. I assume that this proposal will end in the Chamber of Deputies by the end of the first half of the year, and I assume that this will not be a big political battle, because I think we supported it by a large majority during the last parliamentary term, and I assume it will be similar in this period. At this time, we are debating whether we should do this only for the year 2022, or also for next year. I think that's a legitimate debate. We're thinking about not being in the same situation in a year, and not extending the new novel for that year. Given what is happening in Ukraine and what are the effects on energy prices, at this point I rather lean towards the option to make it true for 2022 and 2023. That way, it'll give some kind of investment certainty or assumption for investment planning to our entrepreneurs, but the debate isn't over yet. But I'm sure I'm counting on it, and we promised tripartite we'd do it, and we'll definitely do it. I feel like at this point I've answered about all the questions that have fallen. If you don't, I'll sign in and give you some follow-up answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u11	Thank you. We have a number of factual points here. Mr Munzar was the first, then Mr Brabec, Mr Pražák and Mrs Peštová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u12	Yes, thank you. I'd like to respond to both performances in the introduction. First to Mrs Schillerová, through you. I would like to appreciate the approach that this proposal will not be vetoed. However, I'm going to argue with one of the things you said here, and that's that you've assessed the cancellation of the road tax up to 12 tons as a little help. I would just like to point out that even in the financial statement of CZK 4.2 billion from the state budget it is not a small help, and in particular it is necessary to realise that it is a significant aid for all small and medium-sized companies that operate only passenger vehicles or vehicles up to 12 tonnes, because they will significantly reduce their administrative burden on the actual registration of road taxes and the like. So that's one point I'm making. Second comment on Mrs Peštová. We're talking about abolishing the legal obligation to use one way. This means that we are talking about abolishing the legal advantage of one way of achieving a reduction in emissions by this law. As has historically been shown, the first generation biofuels are not as environmentally advantageous as expected at the beginning, burdening our land and crowding out the cultivation of other crops. [[12.40 hours]] And as for what you said, there's not enough other fuel in the second generation yet, so it's logical. If you have a legal advantage in one way, it is clear that this advantage displaces the other way, and it is this amendment that is designed to change this so that there is a possibility and room for further development of ways to reduce incorporation emissions or emissions from fuel use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u13	Thank you. Another registered point of fact is Mr Brabec. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, well, the government coalition may have come up with this idea because, first of all, it's gonna kick Babiš's ass 'cause he's making that bio-bearer, and second of all, it's gonna save you a lot of motorists. I even think the Minister of Finance spoke of up to CZK 4.50 per litre... [[The minister disagrees at the table.]] ... somewhere it was said, it was a crown of fifty for excise taxes plus something else, plus maybe another three crowns. And thirdly, those poor farmers who are forced to grow the rape today will finally be able to put wheat there. Guys, so zero, zero, zero. I'll start with the farmers. Farmers, of course, don't have to put anything in there, they're not forced to, and of course they're going to keep sowing the rape, because they're sowing or planting what's worth it, that's clear. Farmers don't say what to do, he behaves economically. Secondly, I wonder if even a dime saves motorists from mixing, they will not have to mix, because, of course, the supplier - it has already been said - is obliged to comply with his European directives, and therefore he will have to mix something and paradoxically, the biologist is the cheapest today. My colleague Munzar is wrong, because second generation biofuels are even twice as favorable today in terms of mixing, it has already approved, if I am not mistaken, the previous House. And the third one, as you're gonna give it to this Babiš guy. Well, I don't quite think about it this way, but the point is, it's just not true that the motorist, by having to stop mixing, saves some money, because the fuel manufacturer will have to deal with it, and paradoxically - ask the pumpers and the manufacturers that they could put there - and paradoxically, for those people, it might eventually be more expensive than mixing the first generation biofuels. That's it. So nonsense, lie. . [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the time limit. Another point of fact is Mr Pražák. The next one will be prepared by Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u16	Good afternoon. Well, he said it for me, colleague Brabec. I must say that I agree with what the Minister of Finance said, there are several options. There's a space opening up here to make sure it's not just the bio-component, but let's actually say what Mr. Richard Brabec said. It's just that the bio-component is the cheapest option nowadays to fulfill the legal obligation for distributors to reduce CO2. It's just reality. If it wasn't and the variant was different, they would have done it long ago. They're just going to put the biofuels in there, and if they combine other variants, more expensive, it's going to only be reflected in PHM prices again. We've got oil up 50 cents today against yesterday. So you have to say b there too. ano, there are other variants, but they will be multiplied by more expensive and everything will only be reflected again and only until the PHM price will customers, our fellow citizens, buy more expensive fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are multiplying other factual points here. Next, please, is Mrs Peštová, and then she is signed up with a point of fact, Minister Stanjura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u18	I would like to respond to the Minister of Finance, through the President. I was expecting you to say that they can count on taking on oil and gas. That's exactly what we were when I was still working at the Department of the Environment, that's what we were just treating in the Air Law. And do you know why, through Mr President? Because it started to fixate. Not to fix, it was fraud, incredible fraud, because at the moment, mining does not take place in any of the countries of the European Union. These mining operations take place in South Africa, for example, or somewhere else. And our fuel suppliers were buying the so-called beautiful sustainability paper, which everyone counted, whether it was the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary - it is simply unseen, absolutely unseen. A piece of paper goes out, and everyone counts the paper. So basically, that's why we've treated it, and we've got a maximum of 1 per cent in that law. Germany also saw through this, and Germany put 1.2 percent there, because they found that there were really incredible leaks, but unbelievable. So the minute you said it, it picked me up immediately. As far as Mr Munzar is concerned, through Mr President, as you said here that it doesn't really pay off, there is no sustainability - I don't know how you put it, I'm sorry - but in essence you indicated that biofuels of the first generation are actually no use, but that they do not fulfil their purpose, so I would put it. So I will lead you out of error, because the requirement for minimum greenhouse gas emission savings produced throughout the life cycle of biofuels is 50 per cent. This is the minimum, it must be, and currently in the Czech Republic ours are between 65 and 75 percent. That means... [[President: Madame, your time limit is up.]] Yes, I'll turn myself in again, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u19	I'm sorry. Another registered point of fact is Minister Stanjura. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u20	Hopefully I'll make it, or I'll check in normally. So I would like to respond to Mr Brabec's speech, which used his favourite political figure. He used three alleged statements here, then protested against them, and they applauded him. The name of Andrej Babiš in connection with this law was first used by you, Mr. Ambassador, through Vice-President Karel Havlíček. It didn't fall out of my mouth once, not today, not ever. I never said that 4 or 4.50 will reduce the price due to the abolition of the incorporation obligation. So you said zero, zero, zero, and I said lie, lie, lie. That's all. Then you complain so much: still the Antibabish. So what are you guys bringing Babiš here for? You already read his lips, and maybe he already presumes it would be nice for you to defend him. But I see no reason to mention the role of Agrofert or Andrej Babiš in connection with this bill. I see no reason. You're the only one doing it, and then you're protesting it. I don't understand it at all. You must have missed it, but I'm not gonna say it anyway, because the law is general, it applies to everyone, we're canceling the incorporation obligation. Today, when there's an obligation, it's an obligation to mix it up no matter what other options the company uses. Regardless, there's a duty. That's why we're canceling, that's why it's a palette of options. And to speak to the MP about the paper he's cheating with. So, according to my information, Germany has 1.5 percent at the moment, not 1.2, it is, but we don't have to argue about it, I don't have to have accurate information. I've been given information that it's 1.5 percent. Germany is undoubtedly a green country, yet it has a limit higher than in the Czech Republic. And to always say that I'm not going to use something because it's cheating somewhere - unfortunately, it's part of human nature, that in every activity, you'll probably find some distinctive minority that cheats. It is a legal option, it is a possibility that European regulations allow, so we can say that they are worthless paper, but that is all we can say about it. If you want to be right - it doesn't have to be today - bring some statistics over the years that companies have shown it, which have replaced the legal obligation with the paper. So let's shine a light on these companies together and take a look at them. Otherwise, it's just stories of a sheep's grandmother that there were some scams. So you have to say it specifically! Which companies were involved? How did the state intervene if he found out there were frauds? That's relevant, isn't it? [[Prime Minister!]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u21	Thank you, and another of the entries in the factual note is Mr Kučera. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u22	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate about mixing, or the obligation to mix bio-components here, I suspect, is going on for the third term, and I am sorry that the incorporation of bio-components is crucially pronounced by the former Minister of the Environment and former Deputy Minister of the Ministry of the Environment. It is quite clear that the first generation bio-component is clearly harmful to the environment, it is even discussed within the framework of debates at European level, and more or less most countries have already left this far, given that the environmental benefits are rather negative. I would have expected from this very side, that means former environmental authorities, there will be clear support for the departure from the first generation bio-component, and yet it is the other way around. Whether they're former employees of Andrej Babiš or not, I'm not going to mention that, of course. Mr Brabec opened the debate here, so I won't mention it here anymore. But I think, more or less, that the debate should be concerned about the benefits of not mixing the first generation bio-component, especially with regard to environmental protection, and I would expect this way of conducting the debate from the former Minister of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u23	Thank you. With another factual fact, Mrs Peštová is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u24	Then I will start with Mr Kučera, the last one, through Mr President. First of all, I've never worked at Agrofert or Agrofert. So I'm begging you, I'm begging you to say that here. You really picked me up from the chair. Secondly, we're not saying anything here about not mixing or mixing. We only say that, or at least I say it's populist, populist! This means that you, in essence, say the end of the incorporation, and yet you know that Section 20 tells you that they will continue to mix. So nothing changes for consumers. Nothing at all! It's just that the price will always be the same, and it bothers me that you're populists. That's what bothers me. If you want to cancel, you cancel and cancel § 20. But you're not going to do that because you know it's a transposition of the directive. That's what bothers me. Mr Minister, I will calm down now, Minister Stanjur, through Mr President: well, we have a RED III coming up, and the RED III says - you mentioned 1,2% in Germany here, that's what I said, and I stand by it. We have 1 %, and RED III says it's over, it won't count at all, that means not even 1 %. RED III is actually already seeing the light of the world, now only revisions are being made - so nothing will count. As far as CNG and LPG are concerned, we have 0.6 %, 0.6 % is what makes us the percentage that we have to meet. So what are they gonna replace it with? I'm saying we're gonna keep mixing, because that's the only way, and if we're gonna play populist here that we're all gonna start driving electric cars, then show me how many of you have an electric car? We're all on fossil fuels, so let's face it, how many of the MPs here have an electric car? Well, I see, not one hand. So I'm going to sign up for another discussion because I wanted to respond to the others, and I left that at the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u25	Thank you, Madame. We have five other factual points. Mr. Bendl reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to make a brief remark on agriculture and individual commodities. I think that we need more grain than rape and that to cancel the incorporation, the incorporation obligation, is the right way. This is the situation that we are talking about in the long term, what is happening in Ukraine and Russia, how I will say unharvested or inability to take the harvest from Ukraine to the rest of the world, that it will be good if the Czech Republic is better prepared for the situation in the future. And while we have a surplus of grain in terms of our needs, we cannot prevent our farmers from exporting and selling their grain production in line with EU rules at least throughout Europe. And in this way, we actually make it possible to choose more from the farmer. My colleague Brabec is right when he says that the farmer will eventually do what is best for him - that is what I underline, that is true. And I think that in the future we are at risk of increasing the price of grain, and if there is more crop growing here, it will certainly not hurt, we will ensure that we have more chances to feed the cattle and at the same time to feed them, or create conditions to create our bakery and everything related to it has enough flour. And one more comment. It's not that my colleague Brabec here was talking about reducing the price of oil, he certainly knows a lot of companies, not just in the field of agriculture, which use heavy machinery. And I suggest, if you don't know it, have fun with those people who are... in charge of the filter exchange... and everything that has to do with the bio-salary right in the oil. [[- Mr. Congressman...]] [[President: I must interrupt you too, let it be fair to the others.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u27	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Kott and I ask that Mr Pražák be prepared with a factual remark, then with President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond to the words of the chairman of the agricultural committee, Mr Kučera. The truth is that the Biofuel Act is really going on for a long time. It was the flagship of the Pirate Party, where I think we made it clear that there was no alternative. There really is no alternative to replacing first generation biofuels immediately. And what we are saying here is beautiful - a colleague, Petr Bendl, says that farmers will do what is best for them. I agree with that, but they also have some obligation to follow some rotational practices and the grain can certainly not be done at the expense of the rape forever, there is no way to replace the rape. Moreover, the rape acreage may actually be five, six, seven years old, and maybe it's going down a little bit. And the fact that farmers are going to do rape here anyway is just perfectly logical, because we have a global market here. So by increasing the production of cereals, we will not achieve that we will lower the price, because all of Europe, perhaps someone outside Europe, will be buying the goods here. And the rape that grows here, when it doesn't end up in the production of MERO in the Czech Republic, ends up in the production of MERO somewhere else, Austria or Germany. So please don't tell yourself that farmers are gonna stop doing this and there's not gonna be any mixing, because if we don't mix it in here, it's gonna get mixed up somewhere else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u29	Thank you, and another is Mr Pražák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u30	Good afternoon again. Thank you. My colleague Bendl left. I wanted to respond first to his last remark about the filters in the machines. You know what, he got a little caught up in what was ten, 15 years ago when the word biodiesel was really used. It was oil that had very little in common with oil and made problems in heavy machinery, in agricultural machines. But nowadays, there's nothing doing a bio-component in normal diesel, the filters are completely clean, the engine's clean, it's all fine. He grabbed something completely different 15 years ago. [[13.00 hours]] But to my colleague and chairman of the Agricultural Committee Kučera. I'm sorry, but you were the ones who tried to stuff people here for a month, that by canceling or banning or eliminating the obligation to add a bio-component to diesel or to PHM, you're going to lower the price. You've been stuffing this place for a month. Now, after a month, you found out that everyone tore it up in the media, that it wasn't true, so you turned it over to the fact that you're actually protecting the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u31	Thank you. Another one, with fact, is signed in by President Schillerová, and another one may be prepared by Mrs Balaštíková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u32	Thank you. I'll be quick. Once again, the YES movement, the ANO movement's parliamentary club, will support this amendment. Please, let's not forget this. And the YES movement will not, as I said at the beginning of my speech, veto approval at first reading. That's how I underline it, and that's crucial. And the fact that my colleagues here are asking questions about professional matters doesn't mean anything. I thank the Minister for answering my question. I've been trying to speak with a huge voice of a fairy-tale wolf, which is why I don't understand a slightly more exciting answer in the spirit that I have to watch the government press conferences. I really don't follow them regularly, I'm sorry, I don't even sit on tripartite, so I couldn't know. So thank you for that, too. As for the accelerated depreciation, I'm offering you support, do it for two years, just like our government did. You supported us then, we'll give you back the support not as reciprocity, but as proof that it makes sense and helps entrepreneurs. So that's still this support for me. And I'd like to ask you - I'm sure you'll respond, I'll have to go on TV for a while, but I'll be back. I'm gonna ask you again, because I don't want to get into it, if anyone said 4.0, 3.50, I wasn't there, I didn't read it, if you could tell me when you're ever gonna react, so how much more is saving on fuel by actually canceling that obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u33	Thank you for complying with the time limit and please Mrs Balaštíková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u34	Hello, colleagues, and I would like to respond to my colleague Mr. Bendl. I told the circus three weeks ago that I was actually communicating with my colleague Peštová with the transport companies and, among other things, I'm also communicating with repair companies dealing with the repair of cars, and I was asking them if the bio-component was actually destroying or destroying those engines, and they please, experts, experts on this subject, they said that they weren't, that the engines were built on it. So please, colleague, talk to the experts too, not the laymen. And also through Mr President, Mr Bendle, you are the former Minister of Agriculture. I would have expected that when you did this minister, you certainly were instructed by your deputy and union leaders on how agriculture works. So please, farmers need more crops, not just grain, just to make the landscape varied. Unfortunately, the rape is also causing that. And maybe it would be good to get something about the beets from the experts to explain what she's all about, and how it's a good crop to fertile the soil because of her rich root system. So I would like to speak to the experts, and I am sorry to say this, Mr Bendla, through Mr President. I see you're short of a normal practice of doing, like, six months somewhere in an agricultural cooperative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u35	Thank you and I will ask Mrs Peštová with another factual point, followed by Mr Michálek and then by Mr Brabec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u36	I'd still like to respond to the rape. Of course, none of us live in a bubble, and we know that Ukraine is both a grain of Asia and Europe, it exports to these continents. And by not being an ass, she's most likely -- we already know -- she's not going to be sunflowers. I'm sure you've all already noticed how the oil went up, so there won't be sunflower oil. As Mr Babiš has been called here - yes, there is already a big problem - as Mr Babiš has been called here, that it actually makes it into biofuels, so I think I'm not far away from the fact that you might still be begging him to get that Agrofert, the ugly Agrofert, to start making the oil that's going to be missing. And what we're gonna talk about -- he's gonna miss it, and we know it. If you're driving and shopping, I'm getting beautiful - because I'm from the border - I'm getting photos from Germany, where at present every customer who visits can take a maximum of two, maybe now it's just one, last week it was three oils. So I'm not fighting here at all for whether or not biofuels will be. I want to say it again and again, one thing bothers me is that populist attitude of yours. If you don't want biofuels, you don't want them, but if you don't know what to do with it, because you kicked it out, that you're going to cut by a crown or a crown of fifty, or two crowns, I even saw in the paper - you're not going to lower anything, you're not going to lower anything. And tell those people. It is simply populist - we were wrong, we will cancel § 19, which has been amended several times in essence, and it was amended on the basis that we were also called upon by the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance detected certain things unfair that were happening, and that is why this section 19 was constantly being amended to respond. That's why there are those reports that are quarterly, and so on. So...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u37	Madam, time's up. I'm giving everyone five more seconds, but let's make this fair. And I'll ask Mr. Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u38	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to appreciate what President Schillerová said about the press. I think that's a constructive position. Let's finish this, then, about today's meeting. I understand that everyone wants to comment on this, ideally many times, but I think it would be a good idea for us to work it out today. There's no accusation of Agrofert, there's no need to argue against it here, that's what the public decides. We have prepared this proposal and submitted it in the last parliamentary term, and I am very glad that it has now succeeded in getting it on the agenda, because it has been postponed for two years at the time, it was not possible at that time, at which time the ANO movement did not support us in changing it, so it is great that the situation has changed. When it comes to reducing the carbon footprint, the information is different. We might as well have a science seminar where we can get this straight. If you have credible studies that this really helps to reduce the carbon footprint throughout the life cycle, let us discuss it at some expert seminar, but I don't think it is necessary to discuss it here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Anyway, the legislative process will take some time, so I have to agree that this is not, of course, an immediate solution that will help our consumers, nor do I think anyone here would say that they are. We have a situation here that is exceptional, even if there were similar price shocks in the past, but I still think it will help consumers in the long run that they will pay lower prices than prices would if this matter remained in the law. If it were better for people, and, of course, in this situation, when prices are extremely high right now, it might be more advantageous to some extent, so these people would do it voluntarily. Let people do this voluntarily, let the market work as it should, free markets, and there is no need by law to impose such measures. It is an artificial distortion of the market, and I believe that we will find much more effective measures to reduce carbon footprint, and that if there is less rape in the Czech Republic than because of this market distortion, we will finally stop wasting land and we have better use for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u39	Thank you, and Mrs Peštová is next on the list. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u40	I would like to respond to Mr Michálek through Mr President. I don't understand. What kind of distortion of the market here? What's a distortion of the market? What's wrong with the market? By the fact that there's an obligation that's given? Which is given by Brusel, which you call upon, through the President? I don't care what's wrong with it. Here's an obligation for fuel suppliers to cut by 6 percent. Fuel suppliers currently have no choice, because - now I'm saying - CNG, LPG 0.6 %, electromobility - we're not going to play that, we know where we stand. Each of us would have to have an electric car. Yes, you say the charging station here. But we're still talking virtually, that's some kind of future. So tell me what? Second generation biofuels? So you want to tell me, through Mr President, that we're going to be the straw we need and plow, so we're going to make it second-generation biofuels? What percentage do you think it is? [[13.10 hours]] Well, if you want to talk about something... I don't want to - I understand that you still want some seminars. You know, it always seems to me - and I know it from my older colleagues: If you don't want to solve anything, set up a working group or do a seminar. Because you're not going to do anything, you're all going to fight there, and the result is zero. So if you want a task force, we're going in. But I'm more interested in what it takes to replace it, the second generation biofuels aren't here. And notabene, in that RED I you can count them now, and there's 1.7. I apologize, Minister, through Mr President, but I saw a few of your speeches when you were calling and yelling, and everyone was sitting here and nobody was holding their ears. So right now it's 1.7 and you can count it twice, that's 3.4 percent, and in RED III it's no longer counted. And do you know why, Mr Member, through Mr President? Because it's not used. It's not used, so RED III doesn't count on this double counting anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u41	Thank you. Since I do not see any other factual evidence, the Minister has now applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u42	Thank you for your word and a nice day, everyone. I would just like to summarize what the proposed amendment to the Act on Air is about, because we used it as the Ministry of the Environment. Indeed, the Air Protection Act currently has two obligations. One is in Section 19 and this is for the supplier of diesel petrol with mandatory incorporation of biofuels and the other is § 20 and this is the pure European air-protection transposition. The launch of Section 19, which is the aim of the amendment presented by us, is actually the elimination of the almost unnecessary obligation to mix biofuels, because the same is contained in Section 20, which is a pure European transposition. So there's no way we're making it impossible for anyone to mix first-generation biofuels. Indeed, even according to § 20, the system can continue to run, so it does not have any immediate negative effect on farmers right now. But the fuel manufacturer has the opportunity to choose how to do this obligation that the European directives give him. So I don't think there's anything at stake that we have in relation to air protection and that farmers aren't at risk either. On the contrary, we are abolishing a lot of administrative obligations and giving fuel manufacturers a chance to choose how they will ensure the obligations they have set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u43	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With a point of fact, Mr Brabec is registered. It brought back further factual points. Mrs Peštová and Mr Hrnčíř will follow. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u44	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief, just quoting Minister Stanjura. It's possible - I'm not questioning it - that on the Money website. cz it was some fake news, but here I quote Minister Stanjura, Minister of Finance, that "the abolition of the obligation to mix a biofold into oil will lead to its discount of 1.50 to 2 crowns per litre." I, when I was talking about the 4.50 - and it was definitely from some press conference - so there was probably, or very probably, an added excise tax effect. We'd have gotten to 3.50 by then, and maybe something else. But I question, Minister, through the President, your claim that there will be a discount of 1.50 to 2 crowns per litre. It won't, because it would really be those pumpers, or those fuel manufacturers and distributors, that would have to subsidize. Again, the bio-component - and let's say what has already been said here and it's very important: when we stop mixing, there's just going to be 100 percent of the oil component, that's what we're getting from Russia today, and we certainly don't want to support that. But aside from this, however important I think it is, I completely refuse and I am convinced that you are wrong about the claim that by abolishing the mandatory incorporation of consumers, i.e. drivers, it will save 1,50 to 2 crowns per litre of diesel. I'm sure that's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next logged in, which I ask to come to the counter, is Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u46	I wanted to thank the Minister of the Environment because, in essence, she said what I was saying all along, because by repealing Section 19 of the Scriptures. (a) to (a). (e) nothing will happen at all and it will continue to mix. I'm glad it was said here and that it was heard directly from the Minister. So you guys should get over it now, because your secretary already says nothing's gonna happen. It's just a populist gesture that didn't work out for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u47	Thank you. With a point of fact, the next one will be expressed by Mr Hrnčíř. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to respond to what has also been said here by the Minister, because I felt that the purpose of these amendments, and especially in Section 90, is to help citizens, businesses quickly and effectively, so as to help them increase fuel prices, which, of course, triggers inflation and accentuating other things, services, of course food and other commodities. And now we're learning what we kind of knew was that nothing really happened, that the interference of Section 19 really doesn't have a de facto practical impact on the price. I don't really understand -- it seems a bit like a smart hobby to me -- that the government behaves in this way, somehow marketing, through some political marketing, is releasing into the media how it saves rising fuel prices by abolishing incorporation. I'm no fan of the incorporation. If it had really been canceled and removed - I consider it really nonsense, which the green fanatics had once made to make a really rotten car engine and somebody was making money on it, so I don't support it, but the government really didn't do anything with what it did, just released a bubble into the media, that the price would be reduced, I don't know about the crown, by 1.50. It's not going down, it's total nonsense. I think it should be fair to admit it. It really doesn't help our citizens. It would be much better if VAT, such as Poland had been reduced by VAT, even temporarily - 8 percent of VAT would have had Poland on fuel, and then, of course, our citizens went there to refuel from that border area. I think that if it had been for those steps that could actually reduce the price of at least those citizens, consumers, that it would have been so much better than fooling them like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u49	Thank you for keeping time, and with fact there is no one, but Mr Feranec is reporting to the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been told by our club president that we will support this law, although, let's face it, in the area of abolishing the incorporation of the "populist" it is inaccurate - it is a gesture, and it is also admitted by the plaintiff in the explanatory report that I have read. It says that the abolition of the compulsory incorporation will not bring about a reduction in the incorporation, the use of biofuels, because it is not a real alternative. So we're going to support it with the knowledge that it's a kind of gesture that has no practical meaning. [[13.20 hours]] Or if the Minister will answer me if there is any idea of when the other options will be used, at what time? But the explanatory statement doesn't say anything about it, they say it doesn't bring anything. It is just said that in the future the proportion of biogas or biomass could increase, that is what it says, and in this context I wanted to ask the Minister of Agriculture if he could react. Today, the former Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jurečka, said that, as we will replace gas with biogas - how does this relate, if by chance by adopting a position on the common agricultural policy, where you have de facto reduced the support for livestock production, increasing the redistributive payment, how does it go in line with the fact that we want to use more biogas in the future and allow biofuels to not be used? If anyone can answer that question. Otherwise, all I really appreciate is a few gestures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It raised Mrs Peštová's factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u52	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. This is not about the future, through Mr President. Those contractors have to do it every year -- it's not that we're gonna play this game now -- once, once, in two, in three, in four, in five years -- no, those suppliers have to cut by 6% each year. That means, that's what I said - nothing's gonna change. The status quo stays, your points - I don't know if people or citizens, whether they evaluate in any way - but for us it's just a populist, maybe a peacock gesture. Anyway, nothing's gonna change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u53	Thank you. I see another one registered for the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Member of the Turks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the issue of the cultivation of oilseed rape in the Czech Republic from an agricultural point of view. You see, that poor rape has become to some extent an ideological crop throughout the Czech Republic. I would like to remind you of the anabasis, the historical anabasis of 30 years of support for the cultivation of oilseed rape. When I look into the past, then the Minister of Agriculture was Bohumil Kubát, it was 1990 to 1992, and then there was a radical change in the grant policy throughout the agri-complex. The government of Petr Pithart then adopted new subsidy rules, and frankly, it was the Government of the then Civil Forum, which included one of the new subsidy programmes support for the processing industry for the processing of oil rape and the promotion of these products and marketing in the Czech Republic. So no discovery in 2013 or 2021, when the government was the government, when the YES movement was in the government, was in 1991. At that time, the material was called the Rules of Support for the Agrofood Complex in 1991 and approved by the government of Petr Pithart. [[ho]] It was the Government of the Civil Forum, later the civil movement ODS and KDU-ČSL, in this composition. To further support the cultivation of oilseed rape in the Czech Republic, it was in 1993 to 1994, again it was the coalition government of ODS, ODA and KDU-ČSL, Minister of Agriculture Josef Lux. At that time further support was practically started and the principle of compulsory incorporation of the component into fuel was considered. To this crucial step, a fundamental step, when compulsory incorporation was introduced legislatively, was taken in 2004. I would even like to mention to some extent a historical such excursion, when it was practically approved at the assembly of one government party - even the current government party - the Green for the countryside programme. Minister Stanjura laughs, but it is my advantage that I have been able to name these historical conventions since 1990 with a considerable memory that can be unpleasant in this context. In 2004, even with the Green for Rural Programme, the KDU President's candidate won, who, at the first point of his programme, had support for the cultivation of oilseed rape, where it was practically motivated farmers to sow more rape to harvest, with the argument that it was an alternative to fossil fuels, an alternative to reducing dependence on Russian oil and practically given space to our farmers. Farmers are innocent of this, supported by all the revolutionary environmental ministers, whether it was Minister František Benda, whether it was Martin Bursík, who even voted in 2010, on 27 May, against the veto of the President, then president of the Republic of Klaus, who vetoed the law that allowed the compulsory incorporation of the ingredient into biofuels, and Martin Bursík, the Minister of the Environment, did not agree with the veto of the President of the Republic. I'm saying the names here on purpose who was at the birth of biofuels and the cultivation of oilseed rape. They were governments that have been in power since 1990. Of course, oilseed rape is grown in the Republic from 300,000 to 400,000 hectares. Honestly, the record player in oil rape growing was in 2012 - guess what kind of minister? At that time, 411 000 hectares of oilseed rape were sown in the Czech Republic and it was under the work of Minister of Agriculture Petr Bendl. So 411 000 hectares is the biggest record in the Czech Republic as regards the cultivation of oilseed rape, and it was in 2012, so it was not in any way in 2013, it was not even in 2018 or 2021. On the contrary, since then the rotational areas of rape have fallen slightly to some 340 000 to 360 000 hectares, albeit increasing yield. [[13.30 hours]] It must also be said that this is indeed a very picnic gesture of the current government's fight against the reduction of areas. Prime Minister Fiala even uses that less rape - more cereals. I would like to point out that rape is a winter crop, which means it is sown in the autumn. So if anyone in March, in April, announces that they will reduce the area of growing that crop in a given year, which must be sown in the autumn, it is not true from a technical point of view. The rape was sown already in October, November, the farmers are counting on the production, and frankly, encourage farmers to plow the sown crop, which I think is actually suicidal in a given crisis, where there will be a shortage of oil in the whole of Europe, a shortage of vegetable oils. [[Noise in the hall.]] So about that much. This is practically the whole history of the cultivation of oilseed rape and the milestone of the cultivation of oilseed rape is indeed 1991, the government of the civil movement ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u55	Mr. Ambassador, I have to interrupt you, and unfortunately I have to interrupt this point, because there's another point scheduled for 13.30. And let me also cancel with Minister Černochová her apology from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore note that we are interrupting this point and that the general debate has not yet been concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-005-022.u56	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we shall therefore proceed to the firmly-placed items that are from the electoral bloc. And the first one is a point number.
