ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin the 11th session of the Chamber of Deputies, I remind you that the 9th session of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 12.45. I am now opening the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for an 11th meeting on Wednesday, 16 February 2022. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Ondřej kolář and Members of Petr Vrána. Does anyone else have a suggestion, please? No one's reporting with the proposal. I'm gonna sing and call my colleagues to the O.R. We will now vote on the appointment of Mr Ondřej kolář and Mr Petr Vrána as verifiers of this meeting. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number one, 162 Members and Members have signed in for 160, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the verifiers of the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Ondřej kolář and Mr Petr Vrána. I say that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Mrs Andrea Babišová, Member Pavel Bělobrádek, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Member Romana Fischerová, Member Jaroslav Foldyna, Member Lenka Knechtová, Member Jiří Kobza, Member Klára Kocmanová, from 9.00 to 13.00 for family reasons. I will once again convey the reasons for which Mrs Babišová, Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Faltýnek, Mr Foldyna, Mrs Knechtová and Mr Jiří Kobza apologize for health reasons. Mrs Fischerová also apologizes from 9.00 to 12.00 for work reasons, Klára Kocmanová from 9.00 to 13.00 for family reasons, from 14.00 to 24.00 for family reasons, Mr Michal Kučera for health reasons, Mr Metnar for health reasons, Mrs Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš without giving reason and Mr Milan Wenzl for health reasons. The following ministers apologize from the members of the government: Minister Mikuláš Bek from 10.00 to 24.00 for work reasons, Minister Jan Lipavský for health reasons, Minister Michal Šalomoun for family reasons. Mr David Kasal also apologizes on account of illness, Mrs Jana Pastuchová between 10:45 and 12:00 for family reasons, Mr Špičák from 10:45 to 12:00 for family reasons. I also note that Mr Kobza is withdrawing his apology. I am looking to see if Mrs Pastuchová is sorry. No, Mrs Pastuchová is withdrawing her apology. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 11th meeting, the proposal of which is in the invitation. I wonder if anyone has a proposal for a change or a supplement to the draft programme? It's not like that. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers from the lobby. We will therefore now vote on the proposal for an 11th meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 2, 173 Members and Members, in favour of 172, against no one. The draft agenda has been approved, the proposal has been adopted. Now we're going to do the agenda for the meeting. The first point is
