ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u1	171. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 110/2006 Coll., on the Life and existential Minimum, as amended /house print 342/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing this government bill, we would, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I therefore open the debate. Mr Vondráček is interested in joining it. Yes, for a brief hearing. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u2	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here again. I was here last week when I attacked that the state of emergency was being abused. And at that time, we were discussing a matter that, at least remotely, could, after the argument of Minister Síkela, remind us of something that would avert imminent damage. I already consider this press to be a normal standard law. I would really like to hear from the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, so let him tell us what he sees fulfilling the conditions of a legislative emergency. What is seen is that we are going to discuss the matter because you overrule us, in a reduced procedure, which is a procedure which, of course, has a major impact on the parliamentary procedure, where the possibility of a parliamentary minority is limited in some way to discuss this press, to intervene in it, to adopt amendments. I have read it to you here last time, I will repeat only one paragraph, because it makes no sense to repeat it over and over again, but indeed "the announcement of a state of legislative emergency and the negotiation of a draft law in abridged negotiations substantially alters the structure of the legislative process and restricts its substance to expressing consent or opposition itself. This procedure can only be accepted as an exception to the rule, provided that the interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process. However, it is not possible to accept the use of this extraordinary institute as a normal tool of limiting parliamentary legislative procedure by a majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position with the bill or makes use of the rules of procedure laid down by means." End of the quote from the constitutional record 53/10, if you'd like to look it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u3	Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt, but my colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u4	I'm used to it that every time I open this topic, there's an elevated noise level in the room, especially on the right. But really listen to this. Some of you here said, "Yes, it's on the edge, we don't like it either, but we have to do it. And now, in a week, it turns out that the general requirements are not met. And I ask the Government's representative, what is the exceptional nature of this situation, what is the surprising element and what part of the Rules of Procedure are you referring to, whether it is the security of citizens or whether it is a serious economic damage? What's going on? I didn't actually find the justification in the explanatory memorandum. It's very dull. And really, even if you were looking for as long as they wanted, really, that this would be discussed in a state of legislative emergency, you wouldn't find the reasons. The reasons don't exist, and yet you'll do it again. Well, thank you for answering my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u5	This is Minister Jurečka reporting now. Please, you have the floor, Minister. And others, colleagues and colleagues, I'm really going to ask you to keep the conversation down or move it to the lobby. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u6	Thank you. Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to Mr Radek Vondráček's colleague. Of course, I am not pleased to present this press here in a state of legislative emergency, but I think the reasons are here. Let me at least remind some of them here and put it in some real context and what is happening and what impact it has on citizens and on this state. It is clear that a state of legislative emergency can be declared in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is in danger of economic damage are significantly threatened. Of course, that's clear. The Constitutional Court has permitted that the substance or purpose of the Institute is to prevent irreversible or difficult to reparable damage to the fundamental interests of the members of the company or to prevent real significant damage to the state's property. There is currently a significant sharp increase in the prices of basic life needs, and there is no assumption that these prices will stop in the foreseeable future. These prices are increasing for some commodities, otherwise spread over time, we see other increases in electricity prices, gas prices, other increases in prices of some types of solid fuels. We also see the effects on households, vulnerable groups of households and, for example, families with children. The reason for declaring a state of legislative emergency is, from our point of view, a petitioner described above, an emergency situation which represents a fundamental threat to the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and a threat to significant economic damage on the part of the state. The proposed adjustment responds to the turbulent situation in the energy market, which causes an enormous increase in housing costs as well as to the situation of a sharp increase in costs for virtually all other basic life needs. The effects of rising energy, food and other commodities on final consumers are extremely serious. The individual measures proposed thus aim to strengthen the function of the housing contribution, which is a fundamental measure of the State in the area of social protection to maintain household housing. The strengthening of the social protection of the population is further reflected by the modification of the increase in child allowances. We believe that the right to assistance in material distress within the meaning of Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as the right to assistance necessary to ensure fundamental living conditions, cannot be narrowed down only to the regulation contained in the Act on Aid in material distress, which was adopted up to 15 years after the Charter. Last but not least, it is also a matter of not falling into the system of aid in material distress for the former residents of housing contributions. In order to cover the costs of the basic personal needs of individuals and families, such as housing, the State is also involved in state social support, the benefits of which the housing allowance and the addition to the child are precisely covered by this proposed amendment. The right to a minimum standard of living conditions is further closely linked to the right to life Art. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the Programme. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official I think there are reasons, if we look at the context already mentioned, that we were discussing a law in a legislative emergency a few days ago, which, on the other hand, concerned the area of the amendment to the Energy Act and the mitigation of impacts on the population, so I think that here, when we look at the meaning, the purpose of why we are presenting this law is because the development is very rapid. We're responding to him. And if I were to do a standard legislative round that usually lasts at least six months, but usually when you look at the average length of each amendment, it's at least a year, then I'm not able to respond to the support from January 1, 2023, to help the households to which these impacts are affecting here at this turbulent time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u7	Me, too. Mr Juchelka is now registered with a factual remark. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u8	Thank you very much. Well, Minister, I'm interested in what has actually changed in the last two weeks, because you gave this House press 18. 11. to the Chamber of Deputies. There was an agreement that it wouldn't be in the '90s. Fortunately, as you wanted to do during the first reading, it was right because, for example, you have an encore for a child simply calculated wrong and corrects it my amendment, but you are saying here that it is necessary to do this as quickly as possible so that people do not fall into doses in material distress. I mean, you guys manage things like that at the office of work! After all, you have delayed payments in material distress and state social support. For weeks, approval of all applications is delayed, and at this point those people are actually falling into debt, for example, because they have to borrow for when they do not receive a housing allowance, from their parents, from their acquaintances, not for God's sake, from any loan sharks, so that they can pay the rent, and wait a few weeks for them to receive benefits in material need or also to pay welfare benefits. I am so sorry, because we have not yet discussed this law here, and I think we should discuss it better. I appreciate that you said that this will be the last time we are discussing a law from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs in a legislative emergency, but on the other hand, I am terribly sorry that you have already written on Facebook that it will simply pass and that you, as KDU-ČSL, have increased your child support. You guys already have it, and we haven't even started discussing it yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u9	President Schillerová is now registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, there's been such a mess here that we're sending laws to the Chamber of Deputies, or sending five-calices, unstandardized. The amendment to the tax package, which concerns the windfall tax, for 85 billion, is now said to be 40, as we have read in another material that came here in a state of legislative emergency for a change. The exit from the price ceilings, now it's 80, before it's 15, but we've been here a couple of times. Then we discussed it here - remember? - we've been discussing an energy law here that involved solariums and other things. We reduced the deadline to a minimum so that we could correct it, which Minister Síkela, who promised to send it here sometime in the summer, sometime in the summer, in September or October, so that we could reduce it to a week I suspect the deadline, on those amendments, they were across the spectrum, there were coalitions, there were oppositions, so that we could read in the media and in the public space that the Minister complained that the opposition was holding it back. And now we have another law in a state of legislative emergency. The sad thing is that it is a social law, that it is child support, regulation of standard housing and so on, things that are needed. How long, Minister, Jurečka you talking about them? I remember you talking about child additions for weeks, maybe even months, my honored colleague Aleš Juchelka would correct me. And now we have to approve this in a state of legislative emergency? You take people hostage, and then you say, "The evil opposition won't let us do it." No, it's simple. You're simplifying your work, you don't want to go even in a short circle. I know you don't want to argue with your colleagues over there or with a colleague sitting over there on the right, that you just don't want to go into the commentary process, that you don't want to go there or onde, that this is just easier, you wrap it up into the help. We will, of course, support the law at the end of today's negotiations on this law, we will not take people hostage. But end this practice here! End up here with this practice of constantly breaking the law and how beautifully my colleague Radek Vondráček has told you. Get it over with! We will refrain from a state of legislative emergency because we cannot support your absolutely unlawful practices. Then we'll support the law. We will also see how further negotiations on the amendments will take place, and Aleš Juchelka, our shadow Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will manage it here. But I appeal to you, stop it! It's just not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u11	With a point of fact, Mr Vondráček is now first and then Mr králíček, so first of all, there are only two of you. Well, Mr Vondráček prefers Mr Králíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u12	Madam President, I would just like to add briefly to our President: yesterday Mr Jurečka here attacked another Member, our President, and spoke of mockery to the people. So maybe I'd recommend Mr. Kučera borrows the broom and sweeps his own doorstep, because this is ridiculous to people!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u13	Now, then, Mr Vondráček, with a factual view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u14	Thank you for your word. A moment educational - and, of course, I don't want to bore you, so I will not repeat what I said last time, but I have blocked two pieces in the 2011 constitutional finding, which you will certainly be interested in: "Inaddition of some of the opposition's rights, or the factual impossibility of their undisturbed performance as a result of the actions of the ruling majority, may lead to a weakening of the legitimacy of the exercise of power. Continuous restrictions, or even violations of fundamental democratic principles, can lead to a threat to the democratism of the political system itself. The ruling majority is to bear in mind that power is not forever, and the current ruling majority can soon become a parliamentary minority and vice versa." So said the Constitutional Court. So please remember it by the next time. And I also hope that this is the last time we will be dealing with a situation of legislative emergency. And the answer to the Minister: you didn't say any of the reasons why you would justify a legislative emergency. We know that the law is necessary, too, but our President said that we would support it in the end. However, how were you supposed to proceed? I will read you another piece of this constitutional finding: "The use of the institute of legislative emergency is possible only if there is a broad consensus in Parliament, acclamation, or at least a majority that is comparable to the majority required to adopt the constitutional law, or only if the nature of the situations in which the legislative emergency will be applied corresponds to the seriousness of the situations envisaged by the constitutional order for the accelerated negotiation of the bill, which is a state of threat and a state of war." This means your procedure should have been such that you should have dealt with the opposition and possibly negotiated broad support at the level of the constitutional majority. [[Your time is up.]] I applied properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u15	No, you volunteered with the fact that you preferred, so you have to sign up once more when you and Mr. Králíček had such a nice preference here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u16	I let Mr. Králíček go on the record because I wanted to perform properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u17	Oh, I didn't get that right. However, I was giving you de facto, I was saying it at the very beginning. You're going to have to sign up once more because it's getting more factual. So now Mr. Adamec is registered with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u18	Thank you, Madam President, colleagues, I will be very brief. I'm not going to judge the constitutional law or the positions of the Constitutional Court here, but I wanted to respond here to the Honorable Madam President, through you. The energy bill is not a pasculi, it's just a partial modification. I would also personally imagine that we approve of a whole package of measures here, but unfortunately, the situation is evolving somehow, the crisis is progressing somehow, so with our teeth clenched, it's not. He is written correctly this time, but it just turns out that it is the second and third reading that leads to a lot of amendments that complement the issue, and in this case the time for it is, indeed it is. So I was glad that it had arrived at the Economic Committee, that we could discuss it in peace, but it's not pasquil. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u19	It is now registered with Mr Vondráček. It is the last in fact so far, and in order to be an overview of who is applied for, Vice-President Richterová and Mr Vondráček, if he does not change that now, he is still on the list. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u20	I'll be brief, I've already read all the quotes. The conclusion is that this law should not be discussed in a state of legislative emergency, it is a normal legislative proposal. Those options were twofold, both to ensure a broad consensus at the level of the constitutional majority - I think that this would also not be a problem if the majority were communicating with the parliamentary minority, or it could have been dealt with by a standard legislative process at the maximum reduction of deadlines - we had that here, too, and it was not that long ago, it was perhaps two weeks ago. The minister didn't do either of those things, he didn't initiate them. I have seen him here in negotiations on trust with the government that he does not want our votes, yesterday he told us that actually any resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies are useless and that we are naive, so he actually told us that the whole Parliament is useless. I would like to say to the Minister that Parliament is of no use. Parliament is for the procedures to be followed, because if the procedures are not followed, this means that the whole legislative process, including the law, as adopted, is not sufficiently legitimized, and it is losing its effectiveness. That means, I do not think that we would end up with this bill in the Constitutional Court, because it is basically a good intention that we support, but you have failed to do it in a process, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u21	With a point of fact, Minister Jurečka wants to respond. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u22	Dear fellow Member Vondráček, through Madam President, I have to make a fundamental stand. We're not in your Twitter account so you can share some untrue things there for days and then download them. And don't twist things I never said here in the House. I never said Parliament was useless. If you've read this somewhere, I'm begging you, in the future, document this claim that you just said publicly on the microphone here. I never said it, I never said it in relation to the resolutions of this House or of the Senate in general, I said it yesterday in the debate directly to the context of whether the resolution accompanying will provide funds for a specific matter. That's what I said. Please don't take matters out of context, I respect the Houses, the Senate, both chambers of Parliament, and this is how I always treat them, unlike what you said yesterday that your President wasn't here, he baked Christmas - today I don't know if he's making anything else, but unfortunately he's not here again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u23	Mr Vondráček will now speak with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u24	I think this debate is not worthy of me, it is not worthy of this House. I'd like to ask you to take a week off from Twitter. You're really going crazy. [[There is laughter and applause for the members of the YES.]] Let's start acting the way people are supposed to treat each other in the House. You misinterpreted what I said a minute ago. I somehow interpreted your behavior the way you acted yesterday, so we're not gonna stick around for a word. You just told us here - I don't know what's on the record, what's not - how naive we are and that the House of Deputies' resolutions are actually useless. That's what you said here, and not that you didn't. And we might as well move on to some real arguments and move on with the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u25	President Schillerová, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u26	Minister, please - thank you, I will follow up on my colleague Radek Vondráček. I am glad that you are one of more than 800 thousand followers on all the social networks of our President. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] I'm just gonna give you the information. The chairman made the Christmas at 7:00 a.m. and then devoted himself to other tasks, here he was properly excused and paired up. However, let us not draw attention from the merit of the matter. You have not commented on the arguments raised here and explained clearly by my colleague Radek Vondráček why this important law for people is presented in a state of legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u27	Now, then, Vice-President Olga Richterová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm not here to discuss Christmas, but I'm here to actually stand up for the law, because it's an area that I've been doing for a long time. And, ladies and gentlemen of the YES movement, there have just been a lot of problems in the past that we now have to fix, because, for example, a functional housing contribution is something that is absolutely necessary, and the improvements that the proposal contains, for example, improvements for single households, or often for single seniors and seniors, or the correction of an unequal situation for the Praguens, when, in fact, the rules still apply, which distinguish the situation of households that need help through the housing allowance in Prague and other parts of the Republic, and there is inequality, so maybe this is being corrected. Likewise, of course, the addition to a child is something that we have been discussing over the long term, I consider it important in the long term, and I am happy to imagine, of course, that it could be a bigger increase, that we agreed that there would be a 400 crown increase for a family with two children in the finals. And what is important to me is that we understand how many things will probably still need to be adjusted in the future. Just one more time, to sum it up: it's been over the years, over the eight years that you've been in government, a lot of things that have created inequality have been very difficult, and now we're simplifying. I personally contributed to simplifying the housing allowance. I very much appreciate the fact that a number of officials and officials who have long held an opinion are gradually leaning towards the need to simplify this, and this way I am very glad that we are going and that today we can adopt a law that will really help those specific people who need housing support, but it will also help and relieve our approach in the long term, as well as the overcrowded authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u29	So here are the factual points. First, Mr Nacher, followed by Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u30	Thank you. I originally didn't want to talk to this point, but I was provoked by the Minister. Since I am not as tough in this area as my colleague Aleš Juchelka for example, I wanted to hear from the Minister what are the reasons why we need to discuss this in a state of legislative emergency. I didn't hear a single reason. Minister, go on the microphone and tell me the reasons why you wanted us to, too, and instead, we're going to go back to who's here in the Chamber of Deputies. Well, I'll remind you. You're asking for a legislative emergency, you're the only minister here, and you have the nerve to say who's here or not from opposition MPs? I was looking at the chart again. All Members who are not present are being paired up. Does this remark of yours mean that it will stop pairing, or what is it for? What's this for? You guys, when you were in opposition, you were blaming that there were no ministers here or that they weren't answering your questions. You are not here, you are not answering questions as to why this is in a state of legislative emergency - I would really like to hear it, I am not in such detail - and instead the presence or absence of opposition Members is being evaluated. Does that seem normal to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u31	With another point of fact, Mr Juchelka is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u32	Thank you very much. I'm just going to follow up on Vice-President Richterová, through you, who's talking about inequality and how the injustices that have happened in the past government must be corrected terribly. I mean, that's not true. You also sat here in the last Chamber of Deputies, you could have corrected the amendments just as much as we are now correcting the inequality for, for example, the calculation of additions to children. I remember three months ago I had an interpellation here about how the normative cost of housing was to be recounted for the population in the village, because, for example, Teplice, Karviná, which is on the border of 50 000, Olomouc, on the border of 100,000 inhabitants, is causing problems to them, because the normative costs do not at all coincide with the real impact of housing costs on individual citizens. [[11.20 hours]] And speaking of equality and inequality, I hope you will support my amendment on child addition, because you are proposing to add CZK 200 to everyone here in this basic part. This means that you deepen the inequality by just adding 23% to the younger child, and the one who is the oldest category is about 20 years old and studying college, only 22%, I suspect. [[32 %?]] So this is your equality versus inequality. So I hope you raise your hand, Vice-President Richterová, to my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u33	Vice-President Richterová, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u34	Thank you so much for the floor. Just one sentence. The inequality I mentioned concerns, for example, the Pražan, and that is precisely what is being corrected. That's what's been going on here for years. And I just want to point out that I am glad that now, as far as housing support is concerned, for Prague's people, especially one-man households, and typically in Prague it concerns single seniors and seniors, housing support will now be more accessible. That is what I would like to highlight, and that is when the inequality is actually still true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u35	Mr Juchelka, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u36	Yes, it is not, as Mr Benda here says, by your means, and I want to return to this legislative emergency, because we are still expecting - and I think my colleague Patrik Nacher, by your means, Madam President - the answers from the Minister. Why are we discussing this law, when we have been drawing attention to it for several months, in the amendments and so on, in a state of legislative emergency? And why did we even have to defend ourselves as a opposition so that it would not be discussed in the so-called '90s' only at first reading? Why does it just and simply work for a government coalition? Why is she flicking all the important laws by being either in the '90s or in a state of legislative emergency? And it costs us hundreds of billions of crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u37	Now I would like to ask whether Mr Vondráček is still really interested in the performance, or did he replace it with the factual one? Yes, so I don't see anyone else enrolled in the debate. And if this continues to happen, no one will report, I will end the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 110/2006 Coll., on the Life and existential Minimum, as amended, House Press 342, in a shortened hearing." I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. And before the number of entries is settled, I will read the apologies: Berkovcová Jana from the whole day apologizes for health reasons, Mašek Jiří from the whole day of the meeting for health reasons, Stržínek Robert from 13 o'clock for work reasons, Válková Helena from 11 to 11.45 o'clock for work reasons and Petr Fiala from the members of the government apologizes from 11 to 13 o'clock for work reasons. We are therefore voting on a short-term hearing. The number has stabilized. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 146, 142 in attendance, for 75, versus 5. The motion was adopted and the motion for a resolution was adopted. I am now opening the discussion of paragraph 171, the Government's bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 110/2006 Coll., on the Life and existential Minimum, as amended, according to the House's Press 342, in a shortened hearing. The proposed proposal will be presented by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Minister of the Environment Marian Jurečka. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u38	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, I would therefore like to mention the substantial amendments proposed in this House to the press number 342, which are amendments to two laws, in particular Act No. 117/95 Coll., on State Social Support and also on the existential and living minimum, i.e. Act No. 110/2006. Here we respond with this amendment to several facts. On the one hand, we are able to continue to support families who are struggling with high energy prices and rising rents from 1 January, but of course also the cost of living, which is difficult to cope with today, especially vulnerable groups of people, where it belongs not only to senior citizens, where it is mainly widows and widowers, but mainly parents, single parents, singles and disabled people. Of course, there is regular valorisation for people who enjoy pensions. For people and people with disabilities, we have taken steps that we have also tried to mitigate the effects, and now we also need to help families, parents and those who simply need to cope with the cost of living. This means that we are making a few adjustments here, as has already been mentioned here, that is, we are levelling the conditions for all citizens of the Czech Republic to be the same with regard to the border, when they can even apply for a housing allowance, which has been different so far, when people living in the capital city of Prague and other people in other parts of our country had a higher limit. So we're comparing it here, and we're putting the entry line for everyone equally at 30 percent. This means that the household at a time when the household's housing costs exceed 30% of the household's income, so everyone will be entitled at that time to apply for a housing allowance. Then here we also adjust the amounts and the amounts that relate to solid fuels, because the situation here is relatively dynamic over the last few months, let's say, especially with the late period. We've proposed an increase in government regulation here. So I will still be in the position of the proposal based on even the most up-to-date data, which we will be responding mainly to the situation on the pellet market, because part of the households that are drowning pellets, so we see these price increases in recent weeks, that they are still significantly higher than the index of the Czech Statistical Office, which evaluated the first three quarters of this year, so these changes are happening here. We also extend the previous adjustment, the entitlement to the housing allowance for the owner of the building for individual or family recreation, when this property is approved for housing, established, and also the prolongation of the previous adjustment of the exceptional increase in monthly normative costs also for the calendar year 2023. We also adjust the employer's obligation to pass data on the income of applicants and the benefits tested and the persons assessed together through the data box. This means, therefore, that the Labour Office will obtain the necessary data in digital format so that it can be directly placed on the batch agenda so that in the future we do not have to ask the applicant to carry them to us on written paper confirmation. We are also adjusting the amendment to the Act on the existential minimum. I want to mention this here, because I think that, at first glance, a minor adjustment is very important in practice, and that means that we exclude some of the so far counted income so that, above all, the pupils who are preparing in their education and in their practical preparation, and they have it as income from a given organisation or employer, which allows them to practice there or for which they are preparing for their future occupation, so today these funds are actually complicated by the family situation, when perhaps by a few hundred crowns the household exceeded the decisive income and no longer had the right to social support. This is regulated and regulated in other areas, as well as when it comes to income from dependent activity, if it is the income of a dependent child who is constantly preparing for the future occupation in secondary school, and also for income from the self-employment of an dependent child during the holiday months of July and August. So we're really trying to make it normal for anyone to be able to and want to work to be motivated not to create unnecessary barriers and not actually pull these people out of the system, to have a natural ambition to work and at least have some ability to partially build themselves on their own feet. [[11.30 hours]] These adjustments have an impact on the state budget. In the case of an even increased addition to a child, which was also mentioned, which we are increasing by CZK 200, there is an impact of approximately 666 million per year. In the housing allowance for 2023, we assume that the monthly costs will be around CZK 1.11 billion, so there will be a certain increase, and we assume that the annual costs will be over CZK 13 billion. The effectiveness of this law is proposed on 1 January 2023. This is, of course, a very important date for us to be able to implement these things and so that people can make use of this form of increased support and extended support at the beginning of next year. And there is still an adjustment to the efficiency that concerns the income of applicants that we will actually want from employers, so there is efficiency from 1 July 2023 so that they have sufficient time to prepare for it and possibly make some adjustments in their IT systems. So, if I sum up very briefly, we increase the support of parents who are in a group of endangered families with low or lower, medium income by increasing the amount of child allowance by CZK 200, we adjust and simplify the parameters of the housing allowance and allow young people who study and prepare for their future occupations so that they can go to the brigade and work, and it did not mean that their families' financial situation will deteriorate, because perhaps a few crowns will exceed the decisive income for granting some of the welfare benefits. Thank you for your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u39	Thank you, Minister. I merely recall that the first reading of the bill does not take place in a short hearing. The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 342/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jiří Navrátil, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to introduce you to the 78th resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 21st meeting, which took place on 30 November 2022, to the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 110/2006 Coll., on the Life and existential Minimum, as amended, House Print 342: "After the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, Mr Jiří Navrátil's report and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 21 December 2022 at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 110/2006 Coll., on the Life and existential Minimum, as amended, under the House Print 342; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u41	Thank you, rapporteur. So we will now decide whether to hold a general debate, as was said on the recommendation of the Guarantee Committee. I will therefore begin the vote on whether we are having a general debate. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 147, registered 137, for 76, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we're going to have a general debate, so I'm opening it now. Mrs Šafránková, Mr Juchelka, is enrolled in the general debate. I therefore ask Mrs Šafránková to speak to you, colleagues and colleagues, to keep her voice down. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I welcome this proposal because it is some changes that I have been drawing attention to in the long term, but unfortunately I have to say that it has many shortcomings again and is coming very late again, and that is why I am making seven amendments and one motion for an accompanying resolution here under the SPD. The first three amendments are under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 1678, 1679 and 1680. These are proposals for a greater increase in child allowance than proposed by the government, for careless children who are entitled to the so-called increased allowance, i.e. children whose parents work, are on parental leave, or maybe are requalified in individual programmes at the employment offices, and others. And I present it in three variants - gradually in all the relevant age categories of children by 300, 200 and 100 crowns more than the government suggests, so that these children and families have an encore for a child between 600 and 800 crowns a month higher than those parents who do not work in the long term, although they can work. We consider this to be fundamentally correct and necessary as well as motivational measures, fair appreciation of working parents and their children, even considering that these families generally have higher living costs associated with working, including children's costs, such as kindergartens, children's groups, babysitting and others. By proposing under the number of House document 1682 I want to extend the circle of children and families who are entitled to child allowance, namely so that all dependent children living in families whose decisive income does not exceed four times the family's minimum of living are entitled to this entitlement. In a situation where inflation and the cost of living for families with children are rising rapidly, the current level of setting the upper limit for entitlement to child allowance is still too low and significantly endangers the standard of living and the existential situation of tens of thousands of families already with income at the level of average wage, especially due to enormously rising housing costs, energy prices, rent, mortgage loans, etc. In this context, it is certainly worth mentioning that in neighbouring Germany, Minister, all families are entitled to the child allowance regardless of their income. For a more specific idea, the approval of this proposal would, for example, allow the addition to their child to be received, for example, by single parents with one child whose monthly income is between CZK 22 to 26,000 a month. At this point, they're not entitled to it. [[11.40 hours]] The proposals under House documents numbers 1683 and 1689 concern the adjustment of set housing contributions. In particular, the proposal 1683 contains two proposed changes, both the increase in the upper limit of the so-called monthly eligible normative housing costs in all types of apartments in terms of ownership or rental and, secondly, the return to previous practice, when housing standards were set separately for single and separately for two-member households. The merger of these two categories together with the same level of individual standardizations is detrimental to low-income two-member households, since, for example, at the same amount of housing costs and the same amount of income of a single and two-member household, these people will receive a nominally as high housing allowance, although their costs are different, because, as we all know, in terms of setting up some of the payments associated with the use of the apartment, even how many people use it, regardless of other contexts such as energy consumption and others. I consider it necessary to increase the standards themselves, especially because of the enormous increase in energy prices, which are not sufficiently reflected by the government's standardizations. For apartments used on the basis of a lease or lease agreement, I therefore propose to increase the standardizations by CZK 1,000 to one-member households, to 3 000 to three-member households and to 4 000 to four- and multi-member households. For the category of cooperative apartments and apartments of owners, I propose to increase the normalities by 4 000 to all types of households regardless of the number of their members, precisely because the government's proposal does not take sufficient account of the increase in energy prices, especially in family houses with water heating and heating for electricity or natural gas. From practice I already know tens to hundreds of specific cases and, of course, in the context of the whole Czech Republic, they will certainly be on hundreds of thousands, where households receive new monthly advances for the payment of electricity and gas amounting to CZK 12 to 20,000, which are amounts that are significantly above the proposed standards, which now do not allow adequate and necessary housing contributions, especially to low-income single and double-member households living in high-energy family houses. The proposal under the number of the House document 1689 concerns an increase in the special increase in standardizations for 2023 for all types of households in property housing and houses by CZK 5 000 per month, given the enormous increase in energy prices in this type of housing. The amendment under the number of the House document 1692 is an increase in the amount of parental contribution that the government has already postponed for about one year, although it has promised from 300,000 to 380,000 crowns. At the same time, they also propose to introduce an automatic valuation mechanism in the State Social Support Act, i.e. an adjustment to increase the total amount of parental contribution, always on 1 February of the calendar year, namely annual inflation rate, expressed by an increase in the consumer price index for the previous calendar year according to official data of the Czech Statistical Office. In view of the significant growth in inflation and prices of basic living needs and the cost of families with the smallest children, such as housing, energy, food, fuel, children's needs and other possible goods, I consider this increase to be absolutely necessary and very acute. In the proposal, I was based on the cumulative rate of inflation since its last increase on 1 January 2020. This was a total of 7 percent for 2020 and 2021, and this year we estimate it to be around 20 percent based on statistical data. By the way, in September it was 18 percent year-on-year, but even if it were less than 20 percent, in the next few months or weeks of 2023, we are likely to reach this border. This proposal also includes transitional provisions governing the method of drawing an increased parental contribution, both the basic one-off increase and those subsequently increased on the basis of regular inflation valuation by persons who did not receive this contribution at the date of its increase. Finally, under the number of the House document 1697, I attach a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies in the following text: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to impose on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic an analysis and proposals on how it would be possible for a transitional period, at least until the energy prices fall significantly, to include some of the monthly instalments of mortgage loans, especially for socially endangered households, such as single parents, families where one parent cares for a child under four years of parental care or disabled citizens.' Ladies and gentlemen, the situation we are experiencing, which is mainly forced to experience millions of our socially and existentially threatened fellow citizens, is unprecedented and we, as elected representatives of the people, are obliged to act quickly in the interests of these citizens. That's our primary task. Therefore, I beg you to support these proposals for helping decent and working citizens, to whom the hard consequences of the unprecedentedly high energy prices and the leaping growth of all the cost of living, services and goods are falling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u43	Next, Mr Juchelka will speak in the general debate, please. Colleagues and colleagues, please remain silent here in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will just start by showing the House press 342, which we are discussing in a legislative emergency. It is over 60 pages, and during this day in the House system, the pages have been increased by the seven additional amendments by Mrs Šafránková, who we have discussed on the committee. But what I am very sorry about is that there are three amendments to the government coalition, two from my honored fellow chair of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Kaňkovský, and one from Minister Jurečka, who we did not have a chance to discuss on the committee, and I do not understand this, because if we want this in a state of legislative emergency, I do not understand why we should be so surprised and why it simply cannot be prepared for 100% - Since we are already calling a special committee because we are spending this special time here - so that we can just have it all, as they say, in bows, so that we simply do not have to get to know the amendments that surprised me in a hurry at the moment, because we simply could not discuss them on the Social Policy Committee. [[11.50 hours]] As for the opening remarks, I have just one more comment about the Minister. When he talks about helping or helping or helping disabled people, yes, we increased the mobility allowance from 550 to 900 crowns, but that's about it. At the moment, we have an increase in the payment decree of CZK 20 per hour in internal commentary proceedings at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which means CZK 155 per hour in the care services, in the assistance services that help in households, for example, parents of handicapped children or family members with their handicapped partner. And we have absolutely no counterproposal here for these I would say, for some families, by increasing the payment order by, for example, valorizing the care allowance in all four stages, in the third or fourth degrees. This means that all handicapped people here will be able to afford fewer hours of care in their homes, in their home environment. It is increasing by 20 crowns, for the second time in this year, from 115 to 135 and from 135 to 155 crowns payment decree to help handicapped people in their homes, and if you are here always breasting and saying how much you help all individuals; handicaped, self-living seniors and so on, so I'm just saying: it's just an empty declaration, because you're just covering up the fact that, on the contrary, you're simply taking funds from some groups of people at the expense of their care. It's just an introduction to what we're discussing right now. [[The noise in the courtroom persists.]] Indeed, the submitted proposal for a government law aims to respond to the turbulent situation in the energy market, which causes an enormous increase in housing costs, as well as to the situation of a sharp increase in costs of virtually all commodities. We know that inflation shifts from energy to food, that it gets more expensive there. That is why, as I say, we in the Moravian-Silesian region have a whole range of people who go to Poland to buy food, as well as fuel, and I can say that the politicians and journalists there are very strong warning and say: Simply do it at home and please do not come to our shopping. With regard to the whole of this bill, I acknowledged it on the Social Policy Committee and praised the changes that are there, for example, for the normative housing costs, when I actually interviewed the Minister of Interior here about three months ago to convert municipalities to the population so that the border municipalities would not be bits on the housing allowance - the residents there, because when their housing allowance is reduced, they automatically do not reduce the real housing costs when they have under 50 000 inhabitants, for example. This is very good news, and I am very happy for that. As far as the living and existential minimum is concerned, in the last parliamentary term, I have already found my amendment that it is the earnings for the part-time job at the university or, for example, for apprentices from practical teaching that they will not be counted on the family's common income, so that their siblings will not be beaten for the activities of siblings who have decided to work in the brigades or earn some of the crown when they are an apprentice. And I've also commended it very much, I'm sure. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs extends the encore to children as well as to the housing allowance and that there will also not be a part-time job with students who earn money on jeans. [[Mr. Juchelka is looking at the guest gallery.]] Yes, hello, I see them at the gallery - for their siblings to be beaten for it because they lose the encore on children or even the contribution to housing. And I very much acknowledge that the government and the Department of Labour and Social Affairs across the street. But what I do and what I have to complain about is part of the proposed measures within the framework of child additions, where the increase is in individual categories of CZK 200. [[Mr Juchelka turns to the President.]] I'll ask you, Madam President, if you could please ask for some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u45	Yes. You may have a strong voice, but still, colleagues and colleagues, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u46	Of course, I can make a little more of a choice, but I think it's pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u47	I think so, too. I think it's better for colleagues to be more quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u48	And since this is an extremely important passage here, I would like very much to draw attention to these very words of mine, because I hope that some of you, of the government Members, will be convinced that you should support this amendment here. So one more time. The increase in child allowance in this proposal increases by just nominally 200 crowns in all categories. The child allowance is, of course, regulated by the law that we are currently dealing with. We have increased from 2.7 to 3.4 times the minimum of life in the last parliamentary term, even with the help of the current government coalition, and thus we have expanded the range of people who are entitled to children's allowance. This is all, of course, the right way. The above is in three categories: from 0 to 6 years, from 6 to 15 years and from 15 to 26 years, and this is in two dimensions. We are mainly talking about the basic dimension, because this is also important for the calculation of the dimensions of the second. Child benefit is practically the only benefit of state social support supported by low- and medium-low-income families caring for careless children. Although there has been an increase in the income limit limit for this benefit in 2021, the addition to the child remains poor because I suspect only 10 percent of the unemployed children are receiving it, and I have no problem with that, so far that is correct. Here you can just really call it a government proposal. However, it cannot be considered correct that the addition to the child in the basic scope is increased by a fixed amount of CZK 200 and not quite, i.e. percentually regardless of the age of the child in each category, as it has always been, traditionally in the case of increasing the addition to the child in the past. However, while in the case of the first category of persons according to the government proposal, that means children under 6 years of age, the amount of addition in basic terms is increased by less than 32 per cent, in the case of the oldest category, that means students who study, so it is only by less than 23 per cent. This does not seem a proportional or fair solution; we cannot talk about any equality at all. It should be noted that the amount of child allowance is logically graduated depending on the age category, depending on the cost of providing basic life needs. These are always higher in older children than in younger ones, of course. The same mechanism should therefore be followed by increasing additions in individual categories, so that the potential of additions to meet these needs remains relatively similar in each category and does not start to get any more aggressive across different groups. For these reasons, my amendment addresses the increase in addition to a child in all categories of basic measures, as has always been the case in the past for decades, by 35 %, rounded, of course, to dozens upwards, and in the increased scope, as has always been, the existing difference should remain, by 500 CZK compared to the basic one. So I'm begging you, it's the only amendment that we have here at the moment, we haven't even gotten separated, that we would have this increase here in several variants. It just seems to us about the 200 crowns, where we're really increasing it by a few crowns in the lowest category of up to six years, appropriate, but let's just increase it as it is right. Even the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs here acknowledged this amendment from the point of view of legislation that it is correctly written that it has no problem at all letting it read again, that it only depends on how the political agreement will end. That is why, under the political agreement, I am simply asking you to accept this amendment. I ask the Minister to give a favourable opinion on this, because this is the right way and it will not cost the state budget much more than what the Minister said about the increase. It is just fairer, more equal and there will be no divergence due to the basic and the percentage of additions to the child. So thank you very much for this appeal and I will also apply to this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u49	Yes. The other is Mrs Válková's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I just wanted to raise my vote and support the comments made by my colleague, Mr Juchelka, on the disabled with regard to the appeals that have recently been broadcast by the National Council for Disabilities, which have not yet been heard. As a former Human Rights Commissioner of the Government - and because my deputy, who is also very concerned about this issue, but cannot be here, has no mandate of a Member, so she would certainly support the legitimate requirement - when, in essence, the intervention, and perhaps Minister Jurečka will explain it to me and I will not be so concerned, there is really a reduction in the number of hours that people with disabilities can use with relevant specialized social workers. This is a great pity and the resort of work and social affairs has been brought to the attention in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u51	Good noon to you, colleagues. We will continue with the general debate to which the Minister has applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u52	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of reacting, and then I'll also justify a proposal that I've taken the liberty of adding here. First of all, what my colleague Mrs Válková said. I will add that what she was talking about is not at all subject to the amendment of this law. It is a question of the payment decree, which now has an intermediate review circle, we will settle it and we should issue it in the near future. Of course, we will also take into account the comments that have come to us so that the adjustment is sensible, socially sensitive. So I just want it to calm down, because it's not the object here. That is why I want to reassure the Member that the payment decree will also be issued in time for providers, but also clients to know how payments will be set from 1 January. As for the press, I took the liberty of adding a changeling to it. I'm objectively saying, I'm not happy about it. In my own way, I also say that I apologise to honourable colleagues from the Social Committee for this, because I dare to make an amendment, which also concerns the adjustment of the amounts for solid fuels, and I am also giving an increase here. Why am I doing this? Because when we were preparing the novel, we were based on data provided by the Czech Statistical Office, which evaluated the development for the first to third quarter for solid fuels. However, yesterday after the Social Committee I consulted this issue of our original proposal, which was based on this index of the Czech Statistical Office, with people who now have the most up-to-date data on how it is developing - and I will now say straight - one narrow segment of a group of solid fuels, which is not in its categorization within the code of the Czech Statistical Office, and these are mainly wood pellets. For wood pellets, there is a higher increase than the original index at the Czech Statistical Office, which was 38 percent. For wood pellets, we can still see during October and November that the increase is even higher there. This amendment is tabled because I am able to respond to the situation in people who have switched their boiler, they do not have a coal boiler, but they have installed boilers for pellets. There's not a significant amount of these households, but it's not a very small amount. So I ask for some understanding of why I am loading this amendment. This is indeed due to the response to this situation, which specifically concerns this group. Therefore, for these items, for these amounts, where the accounting for the amount of fixed fuels is solved, I also make a proposal for an increase. The increase will therefore be at 68 per cent in the amounts referred to in the amendment to the number of persons in the family pursuant to Section 7 (1). 5. If it is a household where there is one or two persons, it will be CZK 3 571 per calendar month, for three persons CZK 4 669, four or more CZK 5 632. What is important is that it will still be bound by the overall limit of normality, which is still above these amounts. So this was loaded and then, of course, there's the second table, which is then in the flats mentioned in the letters A and B. There these amounts are in the case of one or two persons in the household CZK 1 848, for three CZK 2 411 and for four or more CZK 2 979 per calendar month. So much for explaining this amendment. It's a reaction to the very last data we didn't have at the moment we submitted it to the government, and unfortunately I was still abroad. And yesterday, after the meeting of the Social Committee, my colleagues and I sat down again and discussed specifically the pellets. That's why this adjustment here. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u53	Yes, your speech raised Mr Juchelka's point of fact, so I will ask him to take the floor. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u54	Thank you very much. I have read the amendment, Minister, and we will support it. Of course, what you are saying here has its logic, only that all of us have been pushed by the Committee on Social Policy to give amendments in time so that your ministry can comment on them. And I understand here, only historically in the light of all of your amendments that have been here, I simply and simply worry that there might not be any sticker, as it has happened for example with old-age pensions, where to reduce the communist officials' old-age pension, he gave an adhesive to the systemization of the Czech Social Security Administration. That's why I'm saying that we need to be on our guard, of course we have to read all of this here, because you're simply constantly taking these steps - and I understand that it's in a legislative emergency, you're going to explain - but you're simply taking these steps that you've done in the past, a little bit of trust between the opposition and the coalition, the very things that have happened here. So, of course, we have no problem with the wood pellets, and here we will support this. All I'm saying is that in the double standard that Patrik Nacher keeps saying here, we've all put those opposition amendments on committees, you from the coalition put them into the system so that we still have 65 pages of your legislative proposal to read this morning, if there isn't another sticker, like the systemization of the Labor Office, the ČSSZ or others that fall under the MPSV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u55	Thank you for keeping time. I'm asking if anyone else is applying to the general debate because nobody's logged in anymore? No, therefore, I am ending the general debate. I ask you about the final words of the petitioner and rapporteur? [[No. It's not.]] I think they're showing that they're not interested in closing words. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate, which Mrs Šafránková is the first to report to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby refer to the amendments and to the motion for an accompanying resolution, which I presented in detail in the general debate. So these are the numbers of House documents 1678, 1679, 1680, 1682, 1683, 1689, 1692 and the accompanying resolution is under number 1697. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u57	Thank you. Another in the detailed debate is Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I am applying to my important amendment for the correct conversion of the child allowance under number 1710. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u59	Thank you. So far, the last one for a detailed debate is Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u60	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear fellow Members, I would like to make a detailed debate on the two amendments under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 1707 and 1708. As far as the first one is concerned, these are purely legislative technical adaptations, where some of the paragraphs are being renumbered. [[12.10 hours]] As regards House document 1708, this is a substantive change. It's a proclient arrangement for the housing allowance. In fact, the last amendment to this law has come to the conclusion that now applicants for a housing allowance no longer have to demonstrate the rights to the housing allowance four times a year, but only twice a year. However, in those two quarters where they do not have to provide evidence, their legitimate option is to provide evidence of an optional change in entitlements, in the sense of reducing income or, on the contrary, an increase in housing costs. The deadline is that it must provide evidence on the 15th day of the calendar month of January or on the 15th day of the calendar month of July. We propose that this deadline be extended until 31 January or 31 July, we see this as a better option for applicants to have a longer period of time to prove their claims. And I'm just saying, it's a little bit longer for the employment authorities to process these applications. As for what Aleš Juchelka said here: yes, I take it upon myself as chairman of the Social Committee. I didn't bring it up to the committee yesterday, unfortunately I hadn't yet been legally processed. But again, I say that I have already informed both the coalition's representative and the opposition of these intentions in the afternoon, and I put these two proposals into the system in the evening yesterday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So far, you've been the last to enter into a detailed debate, Mr. Minister. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u62	Thank you. I will, if I may, just sign up here in the context of a detailed debate on the amendment under House number 1709. It is an amendment that I have justified here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u63	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting from the scene to a detailed debate? I see no one, so I conclude a detailed debate. And I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? I suppose not. I therefore end the second reading of this proposal. And I have information on the agreement between the club presidents that a 20-minute break will now be announced for legislation to be given the opportunity to draw up amendments which, according to the Grémium agreement, will not be distributed to all Members this time, but printed will be given to the club presidents, the rapporteur, of course the proposer and subsequently to the other Members in electronic form on their mail. That's the deal, and I'm interrupting our negotiations by 12.32 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 12.32. We should continue with the third reading of our point, paragraph 171. However, according to my information and according to the rapporteur's information, it is not yet available... or already? It is, so we can go on, great. I thought we were gonna have to extend our break, but we're not. According to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 7 The Act on Rules of Procedure may be followed by a third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second. I therefore initiate the third reading of the submitted Government Bill and expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy. Mr Jiří Navrátil. will follow with me at the rapporteur's table the debate that I am opening with this. Anyone reporting for an open debate? No one's logged in, and I don't see anyone from anywhere that he's checking in. So if no one is reporting, I am done with the debate. I'm asking the rapporteur and the plaintiff if there's any interest in the final words? It's not like that. I therefore ask the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Navrátil, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me therefore propose to you the procedure for voting in the Chamber of Press 342, which is the first amendment to the vote in the following order: First, we would vote on Mrs Šafránková's proposal, namely on proposal A3. If it had been approved, the proposals A2 and A1 and then, of course, the proposal B, namely Mr Juchelka, would be unvoting. Secondly, we would vote on proposal A2. In the case of approval, the proposal A1 and B is then unvoting. Thirdly, we would vote on proposal A1. In the event of approval of this proposal, proposal B would again be unvoting. Fourthly, we would vote on proposal B, then fifth on proposal A4, sixth on proposal A5, seventh on A6, eighth on A7, ninth on C1, tenth on C2, eleventh on D, that would be accompanying, and then we would still vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u66	Yes, rapporteur, thank you for presenting the draft procedure. I ask if any of the other Members have anything to say about this? Have him log in, if necessary. It's not like that. Anyway, we should probably vote for the procedure. Zagonguji, so that colleagues from the O.R. can arrive. First, we vote for the procedure presented by our colleague. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 148, 151 Members were voted in, 145 voted in, no one opposed. And we can follow our approved procedures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u67	We will therefore now vote on the proposal by Mrs Šafránková, who is under House document 1680, which is led by A3 when in the first part of the article. 1 is: the amendment of points 4 to 6 with an increase in contributions of CZK 300.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u68	Yes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Let him press the button and raise his hand... Sorry, sorry, mistrial vote (number 149). I left out the plaintiff's position, so I'm going back. I call this vote confusing. I'm asking the plaintiff for an opinion. Agreed. [[Disagree.]] I'm just beginning the vote... and I'm asking... disapproval. [[Disagree!]] [[Laughs of Members.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 150, 152 Members voted in favour of 69, against 65. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u69	We can now vote as a second on the A2 proposal again from Mrs Šafránková, who is under the House document 1679 and increases the amount compared to the government proposal by CZK 200.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u70	Yes. The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Disagree. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 151, 152 Members voted in favour of 69, against 60. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u71	The next vote is again from Mrs Šafránková, the House document 1678, which is thus led as A1. And there is an increase compared to a government proposal of CZK 100 in parts in the amendment of points 4 to 6, first part of the article. 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u72	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Disagree. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 152, 152 Members voted in favour of 70, against 56. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u73	Fourthly, we will vote on Mr Aleš Juchelka's proposal under House document 1710, when it proposes, in short, an increase of 35 per cent in the contribution and to keep the increase of CZK 500 for the second border.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u74	I've noted a motion to unsubscribe from my colleague Nacher, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all, and I'm going to ask you to re-enter with your identification cards. [[12.40 hours]] In the meantime, I'll ask the plaintiff's opinion. [[Disagree.]] I think the number of Members has settled. We can begin the vote. I said, who's up for a proposal like that? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 153, 146 Members voted in favour of 69, against 58. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u75	The next vote is the fifth vote, and it is under A4; it is House document 1682 by Mrs Šafránková, which proposes, in short, an extension of the circle of families receiving the minimum of living, so that the multiple is raised from 3.4 to 4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u76	I beg the plaintiff's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 154, 147 Members voted in favour of 69, against 66. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u77	The next vote is led under A5, again from Mrs Šafránková, who proposes in this proposal an increase in the lower limit of normals and a return to categorization once again to one family member, two family members, three and four or more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u78	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Disagree. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 155, 147 Members voted in favour of 68, against 74. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u79	The next vote is paragraph A6 under House document 1689, which was submitted by Mrs Šafránková and concerns the proposal for a special increase in monthly normative costs of CZK 5 000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u80	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Disagree. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 156, 146 Members voted in favour of 68, against 73. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u81	The next motion for a vote will be A7 under House document 1692, once again from my colleague Šafránková, who inserts Amendment Point 25, as amended by Section 30 para. 1 increase in parental income of 300,000 to replace CZK 380 000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u82	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Disagree. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote number 157, 147 Members were voted in, 69 voted in favour, against 64. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u83	Proposal C1 under House document 1707 of Mr Vít Kaňkovský, it is only legislative technical amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u84	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Agreed. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting No. 158, 147 Members were signed in, 147 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u85	The next vote is point C2 under House document 1708, again from my colleague Kaňkovský, and it relates essentially to extending the limits to document documents which are optional, from 15 January to 31 January and from 15 July to 31 July.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u86	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Agreed. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 159, 147 Members were enrolled, 147 voted for, no one opposed. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u87	And the last amendment we are going to vote on is under letter D, which is from Mr Marian Jurečka and Minister Marian Jurečka, and these are increased amounts which count as solid fuels, in Section 25 para. 1 tables to be counted into others and to be reflected in the whole law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u88	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Agreed. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote number 160, 147 Members were signed in, 147 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. That, Mr rapporteur, has exhausted all the amendments. All proposals have been voted on. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Before I present the resolution, she asked for a speech with the priority right of President Schillerová. Madam President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. What have we just witnessed? I will no longer go back to approving the law in a state of legislative emergency, but we have witnessed now that not one of the opposition's amendments has passed, even the one who proposed, and I think he was the only one, proposed the amendment by my honored colleague, Shadow Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Aleš Juchelka, who proposed the only and simple one to increase the additions to children with non-workers - I look at him to say it correctly - raised 35 percent, as was done in individual groups, and not by 200 crowns, and for workers to be there 500 crowns, just as it was customary, as there is a specific formula. And what have we heard about these most sensitive social laws? A year we hear: We want to help the needy, we want to help those who have the biggest problems, we want to target support there. And what will the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs say? Dissenting position. Now we've witnessed it. I want it to be said here, what is the attitude of the government's five-calice towards the most socially necessary. Despite all this, I say for the YES movement that we will support the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u90	Yes, thank you. Before I make the motion for a resolution, I will also make a few apologies. Mr Dufek Aleš apologizes from 14:30 to 18:00 for health reasons, Mr Koten Radek apologises from 10:00 to 12:00 for work reasons, Mr Novák Marek apologises from 11:30 to 14:30 for health reasons, and Mr Zborovský Miroslav apologises from 12:00 for work reasons. I will now make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 110/2006 Coll., on the Life and existential Minimum, as amended, according to the House's press 342, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for such a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 161, 147 Members were signed in, 144 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. There is still a motion for an accompanying resolution, I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u91	Thank you, Mr President. We still have Mrs Lucie Šafránková's accompanying resolution under House document 1697, and, if I am to sum up, she asks the Government to impose an analysis on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and to submit it so that they can also be included in the entitlement to the housing allowance for a transitional period, including part of the monthly instalments of mortgage loans.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u92	Yes. Will we vote on this motion for an accompanying resolution and ask the appellant for an opinion? [[Neutral.]] Neutral. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 162, 147 Members voted in favour of 67, against 1. The motion has not been approved. This has exhausted all the votes on this press, and I am ending the debate on paragraph 171. In agreement with all club presidents, we will not continue the negotiations and we will announce a lunch break now, not until 13:00. We'll meet again at 2:30 p.m. when we continue our program. Have a nice noon and enjoy your meal. And I remind the members of the Organizing Committee: the Organising Committee shall meet at 1:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-002-171.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to launch another item on our agenda, which is
