ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u1	78. Government proposal for an emergency director's leave and extraordinary training in a distance way for the COVID-19 epidemic period and for the amendment of Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the disease epidemic COVID-19 /house print 128/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Petr Gazdík. Please, Minister, take the floor. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I will ask you, colleagues, if you want to discuss, to move the debate to the front so that the Minister can speak in peace. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the proposal for a law on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary training in a distance way for the COVID-19 epidemic period and on the amendment of Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic. The proposal responds to the current situation. In connection with the jumping increase in the number of infected diseases, respectively the Omicron variant, the situation causes difficulties in a number of areas and, unfortunately, education is no exception. As you no doubt know, many schools are struggling, among other things, with a lack of personnel provision for teaching due to increasing cases of isolation or quarantine in teaching staff. Of course, considerable difficulties are also caused by isolation or quarantine in children and students within classes or individual working groups. In this context, we consider it necessary to enable school directors and school directors to deal with these difficulties in an operational way. We believe that it is the head of the school that can best evaluate the situation and choose the appropriate procedure, while being able to respond flexibly and quickly enough. Moreover, this trust in the Director and the Director is fully linked to the long-term position of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the sense of the need to strengthen the role of the Director as a school manager. At the same time, the proposal is based on the conviction of the need to maintain access to education and to prevent school closure. I believe that local measures in school directors are one of the appropriate ways to achieve this goal. The proposed proposal is therefore intended to give the principal or the principal of the school the power to declare exceptional training in a distance manner and, where appropriate, in an extraordinary principal's leave, up to a total of ten days. After assessing the specific situation, the school director will assess whether it is possible to declare exceptional training in a distance manner or whether it is necessary to take advantage of the extraordinary principal's leave. The head of the school can combine both of these institutes appropriately. At the same time, they do not need to use all ten days at once. However, it should always be possible for children, pupils and students to declare exceptional leave or exceptional training in a distance manner in such a way that the right of education is maintained as far as possible. This is an additional possibility beyond the distance teaching provided by the school law in Section 184a, or beyond the five days of the principal's leave, which the school's law has anchored in Section 24 para. 2. The proposed new power is linked to the duration of the pandemic emergency situation pursuant to Act No. 94/2021, on emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic and on the amendment of certain related laws. In view of the urgency of the situation, the Ministry of Education requested that this proposal be discussed in a brief hearing in a state of legislative emergency. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, like me, you are aware of the very urgent need to address the stressful situation of our schools and the prospect of maintaining the educational process as a whole. I therefore believe in your support for the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to which the Government's bill was ordered, discussed it by the President's decision and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 128/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mrs Renáta Zajíčková, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u4	Hello, good afternoon to all of you, good afternoon to all Ministers and Madam Secretary, good afternoon to you, Members and Members. Since I have been empowered by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, I would like to inform you of the discussion and resolution of the Parliamentary press number 128/1 that you have received. Because I've been empowered, I do, and I want you to meet the process. Today, on January 25 at 10 p.m., the school committee that addressed this press met. The Education Committee was attended by almost all members of the Education Committee, two representatives came to the Ministry, Deputy Minister Katzová and Deputy Minister Plaga. [[15.00 hours]] We have heard from the Minister here what reasons the Ministry had to present this proposal to the press. The Minister has told us why he is presenting this proposal to us, who will be responsible for the decision-making of the extraordinary directorial leave and the extraordinary distance teaching, when this will apply, which types of schools are involved. All this has been said by the Minister, so I will not comment on this and I will really inform you in detail about how this press proposal was discussed in the Education Committee. What is important, what was said by the representatives of the Ministry of Education, was, of course, that for this press, for this law, and for this amendment of the law, a rather detailed implementing regulation will be drawn up which will implement the school heads precisely by the practical implications of each school or kindergarten. It was also very important to stress that it is very commendable that kindergarten schools were included in this proposal, because they are also faced with the absence of pedagogical workers and are very often paralyzed as a result. About nine members of the school committee were involved in the debate. Questions or suggestions, as I have already said, have been directed rather towards the practical effects - I will only mention some of them. For example, the members of the committee asked why it was not and is not specifically stated when the director of these institutes, by which I mean extraordinary distance teaching or extraordinary directorial leave, could use precisely why the percentage of absence of pedagogical staff is not fixed there. To this the representatives of the Ministry answered quite logically that each school has its own specific conditions, each school is otherwise large, it is in a different environment and it is the director who knows best the situation and competently evaluates the current needs of the school. Furthermore, there was a question as to what period of ten days of extraordinary director's leave or the possibility of extraordinary distance teaching applies. Here the representatives of the Ministry said that this is for a given school year, that is, if this proposal is approved by the press, ten special days will apply for this school year. The next question was when the headmaster of the school at the latest may announce an extraordinary principal's leave or extraordinary distance instruction, if there is no deadline, any limit. And again, it was answered that precisely because this is the institute that is supposed to help the director deal with the current situation in schools, so it is possible essentially immediately. This means that, in fact, from one day to the next, the Director may declare ten days or three days or five days of extraordinary principal leave or the transition of a given workplace to distance instruction. As I said, there were more questions, but I considered these to be the most basic ones. Of course, the members also asked about the operation and connection of schools with sanitary stations. In general, it is clear from the members of the committee that it is the role of director who knows exactly the situation at his school and he is the only one responsible for deciding whether to announce a few days of principal's leave or to go to distance lessons with the school. As I have already said, it has been very much acknowledged that this also applies to kindergarten schools, although there is still a question, or rather a note that kindergarten schools are also faced with a lack of non-teaching workers, which they do not have a large number of in the given kindergarten, but it was answered by representatives of the Ministry that this proposal really and only concerns pedagogical workers. Since no amendments have been tabled in the detailed debate, let me introduce you to the text of the resolution adopted by the committee. Those resolutions bind to the press 128/1, as I said, you were sent out today. So let me introduce you to a resolution with which, unanimously, all the members of the committee have almost unanimously expressed themselves: "Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports after the justification of Deputy Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Pavla Katzová and Robert Plaga, report by Renáta Zajíčková and after the debate I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to close its negotiations by" - and this is, please, important - "January 27, 2022; IV. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that with the Government's proposal for a law on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary education in a distance way for the period of epidemic disease COVID-19 and amending Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, agreed in the submitted text; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. And now, on the recommendation of the committee, we will decide whether we will have a general debate. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out here, which means I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. I repeat that we will now decide whether we will have a general debate on this bill. Let me reiterate that the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports has proposed and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held. The number of entries has stabilized. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 65, 139 Members and Members registered, for proposal 137, against no one. I am therefore of the opinion that we have approved that we will have a general debate, which I am opening with this, and are registering four applications. Mrs Jana Berkovcová is the first to report to the debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please, madam, you have the floor. And before you start talking, I will ask my colleague and colleagues, if you want to discuss it, you have gone to the lobby to get Mrs Berkovcová to understand. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we all see that the situation in schools is dramatic, and this proposed institution of extraordinary directorial leave can be a very effective and flexible instrument in the hands of the school director. However, it is not entirely clear. I spoke with many elementary school directors in the Hradec Králové Region and most of them welcome him with embarrassment. What's bothering them? The law is late. He was supposed to be here at least two weeks ago, before the covid crisis in schools peaked. The principals are mainly concerned by the fact that responsibility is transferred from the health care stations to them themselves, to make unpopular decisions about the undoubted closure of the school or the limitation of the attendance course. The directors are under tremendous pressure from parents who demand that children go to school as regularly as possible. The possibility of a possible infirmary does not satisfy them, as parents need to go to work and not always be home with their children. Moreover, the form of distance education, as has unfortunately shown in the previous year, deepens all differences in conditions and access to education and worsens the situation on the part of pupils from socially weaker families and from families without motivating backgrounds. School tutoring is not a big deal either, because it is the most needed children who do not participate. The directors certainly deserve more power with regard to school management, and this is one of them. However, the law is written quite in general and does not determine under what specific conditions the school principal could - or could - declare this director's leave or distance instruction, such as the percentage of absence of educators at the school. But, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, we have made this clear today on the school committee with Deputy Director Plaga, and it was more or less intended, because other percentages may be critical in large schools and other in smaller schools. The director doesn't have to justify his decision to anyone or his founder, it's his management decision. So let's hope he doesn't really use it until there's an emergency, for the reasons set out above. I will support this bill, as will my colleagues in the ANO movement. However, I wanted this to be said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u7	Thank you, Madame. Mr Milan Brázdil came forward with a factual remark. Another duly signed up is Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u8	Have a nice day, everyone, coworkers, colleagues. I'd like to respond to my colleague Berkovcová. The fact that there's some kind of vacuum in the way the director is going to judge it - he's not a doctor, is he going to let it go, or is he going to fix it in a day? - we've already cleared that up, you say, it's an individual matter. Anyway, where did the number ten come from? How come there's no need for seven or fifteen? Why isn't there a clause in the sense that it can declare some kind of... Not one, he can declare unlimited... Basically, you say let's put an instrument in his hand. I'm asking, where are you, Minister, without medium, where did you find it or who told you it would be ten days? Why not seven? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u9	Thank you. Minister with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u10	Excuse me, I will respond immediately. Mr President, I went from Nerud Street to the House, and I thought it would be number ten. It really was. I'm sorry, I've considered all the options, discussed this with colleagues at the Ministry and with a professional group of different associations. The number of ten days is optimal for it not to be a long-term leave, which means that it does not affect parents more than is really necessary and that the director really needs to consider it. For us and after consulting various experts, the number ten is sufficient if you theoretically add to this the possibility of another five days of principal leave, but most of which now have at least some part of the school run out. I mean, the principal's day off according to the school code. That's how the number ten seemed to be optimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u11	Thank you. A point of fact is made by Mr David Kasal. If you want to continue to discuss it through factual remarks, you must sign in properly. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd respond to both previous speakers. I'd like to turn a slightly different attention. We're talking about the principal's day off here, but I miss how he's gonna be announced and how early he's gonna be, because his parents have to prepare for it. Since I'm on the front line with pediatricians, just so you know what the outcome will be. These people rush - and they're already rushing into the practice doctors' offices sometimes - and they want a variety of apologies and other things. So I'm wondering, what's the next link, if there's a CEO's day off, so what's the deal with these people? They're gonna come and ask us to give them a diagnosis? Or at what point can a parent and children be home? That's the first thing. And the other thing. We've been talking or it's been said that the directors are declaring quarantine or that they have this responsibility. In the first month of this year, I'm meeting with incredible things when the director decides who stays in school, who doesn't, even if the tests are positive, I won't go into details. I want to know clearly who's gonna decide this because you're interfering with medical issues here, and only schoolchildren have talked about it, but the health department hasn't talked about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u13	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister is claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u14	I take the liberty of calming Dr. Kasal. Doctor, through Mr President, no, it will not concern children's doctors at all, no one will ask you to confirm anything. It will indeed be the decision of the Director and, following the decision of the Director and the declaration of honour, they will be given the infirmary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u15	Thank you. Mr David Kasal's response by a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u16	Minister, through Mr President, in this case it is interesting that at this point some schools already want confirmation of the loss of covid. So you have to set it up, and you have to make it clear how it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u17	Thank you. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u18	I apologise to the honourable Member, through Mr President, but you are mixing two levels here: a law which is not yet adopted, and you asked at the beginning of the law what it will look like to operate, if anyone asks you to confirm - I am clearly telling you that it will not - and the current situation. Now we're talking about the law, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u19	Thank you. Mr Ivo Vondrák, who is now duly registered, will be prepared by Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u20	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to confirm, as head of the school committee, that today's negotiations have been consensual, that we have tried to find a solution that will help our schools because they are having a very difficult time, there is no dispute, and I just firmly believe that this difficult period will pass as soon as possible. Of course, this difficult period carries extraordinary measures, extraordinary solutions, and this law is in a way this extraordinary solution. I'm deliberately saying this because I think it's a solution that isn't systemic. Perhaps it was worth considering generalizing this principal's leave and leave given for ten days, as well as other diseases, because I think there may be danger of other epidemics, measles, jaundice, and so on. In other words, the director could have this power in other situations, and we really have it set up under this law as a very special solution. If we are trying to make our legal system so that our legislation is simpler, we have not helped this much. But let's go back to this law that went through consensually. I'm saying that as it was said today, how it went down. Of the 22 present, 22 were for this bill, which I consider a constructive approach from all sides of the members of this school committee. However, and this has also been said, it has its shortcomings. It's based on the situation that's been described here, and I'm going to repeat it. Basically, this law solves a problem that is long-term, and that is the communication of regional sanitary stations with our schools, namely with the directors. It was not so long ago that I was still in October, in November dealing with a similar problem when we asked regional health stations to help the directors to quarantine the children and close the classrooms. The answer was that it couldn't be that KHS could shut down either the whole school or nothing. [[15.20 hours]] That is the thing that, of course, led to the problems we have today, and that is why we are here today approving a law that is trying to correct it properly. But let's say that we are doing this at the expense of certain responsibilities of directors who may also have underlying problems from this. It's not special that I get an e-mail in the mail in a copy where my parent sues the principal for not ensuring that he basically quarantines the classroom. In my opinion, we can quite negatively influence this situation by this law. I firmly believe that all reasonable people will realise that this needs to be corrected in some way, that this cannot be resolved simply, and that this principle will be accepted by the law. I think that would be worth it, and I think that would make life a lot easier for the directors. What I see the problem - and I see it in the field - is that we already have different solutions in similar situations in different schools. Of course, giving responsibility to directors may lead to directors deciding in different ways, which I do not see as a major problem, but ultimately it may lead to some parents asking why they are no longer learning here at this school and are still learning in this other school. So it's a thing that can, of course, be a complication that can make life very difficult for directors. I firmly believe that we will be optimistic again and nothing like this will happen, so the principle of unifying criteria I would definitely recommend working with the Ministry of Health so that basically directors have at least a similar methodology or methodology that allows them to make the same or at least similar decisions. And the last thing I have here, of course, is to agree that maybe it could have come sooner, because a number of directors have already exhausted their five-day principal's leave, which they have at their disposal, but here I would say - and I quote the classic - rather late than late. So I'm glad we're meeting here today. The law has been discussed in committee unanimously, so I firmly believe that we will also approve it here as a full plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mrs Zajíčková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u22	Thank you. I will respond very briefly. Of course, we can look at every thing with optics either a half-empty glass or a half-full glass. I would like to look at this situation with the optics of a half-full glass, that is, to see it optimistically. Of course, there are various difficult situations in schools today and daily, different reactions from parents. This will continue to happen, but it is always and only the director who must be able to defend any decision he makes. I'm in close contact with the school principals, the kindergarten principals. The Prague 5 district is set up by almost thirty kindergarten schools, fourteen primary schools. They certainly welcome this institute, of course they too, the directors, are aware of the pitfalls in the bill, but when they put it on the scale, it clearly outweighs the advantage of this institute and that they will be able to respond to the paralysis that exists in some primary and kindergarten schools. So I will be very grateful and grateful to all Members who will support this bill today, because in the end it concerns all of us - we are either moms, daddies, or grandmothers, grandfathers who are going through this, and I think that we will help our children, in particular, in their consequence, when they are clear about how they will behave in these situations and where they need to spend their day. So I'm going to lean too far to not approve. [[approved?]] And I would like to thank those who vote in favour in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Ivo Vondrák's point of order now. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u24	Yes, thank you. I'll just be a moment. We need to be prepared for the worst, and the signals from the field are as I described them. I'm not making anything up, it's just that stuff comes on my desk. In other words, it is necessary to prepare for what Deputy Director Plaga said that we are trying to help and protect our directors and our schools. We must not forget this because the situation can provoke the negative phenomena that I was talking about. So, please, let us be united in this and try to help our directors. That's all I want, and I'm gonna support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another factual point, Mr Stanislav Fridrich. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this law, which we are discussing at the moment, is very closely linked to the pandemic law and the current validity of the pandemic law, if I am not mistaken, is until 28. 2. What's happening here right now is actually being transferred from the Ministry of Health to schools, to education, but the Minister of Health is not here to discuss it with us, to watch it, and to comment, so this seems very strange to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u27	Thank you. Mr Karel Rais, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u28	Have a good day, everyone. I would have stopped by this bill on some of the things I don't like. Of course, the idea of transferring operational management to the level of directors, as much as possible, is to get rid of bureaucracy, which has been heard many times in this room, but the question is whether this proposal corresponds to whether it meets this situation right here. What do I think we should discuss? About what has already been said here and the fact that the law is late. We get at least two years from Professor Dušek, Director of the Institute of Health Information, quite detailed information and very statistically reliable that we can essentially predict development. How do we see that we are now at the top of the pandemic that concerns the micron, so what's next? We approve here, we approve the Senate proposal, then the President has to sign it, so the law will actually apply if there's a decrease in the pandemic, and it's just a question of how big the gradient will be. Well, that's the first thing. So it's a good thing the law's here, but it's just too late. That's more or less reality. The second issue is that the Ministry of Health has managed to transfer all responsibility to the Ministry of Education and to the directors, who, as has already been said, these people do not know when or not to declare the emergency situation here, or at least they will be different depending on how strong the director is, how strong his cover is from the founder of the school and so on. There I think that there is really missing some implementing decree, which is usually associated with the draft law. This is another one I would say is a deficiency which, of course, can still be resolved during this legislative process. [[15.30 hours]] The third thing that's already been discussed here is the time of the principal's leave. Personally, if it were a normal law, I will put an amendment there, because I am an enemy of specific numbers in the laws, because these numbers are changing, whether it be the amount of additional salaries, as we saw it in the law on pedagogical workers, so I was also opposed, and I think it would be better than to put ten days there, so to mention that the particular principal leave will be determined again by the Minister by a decree, which is a matter of several, I don't know, maximum hours and it does not have to be hard for ten days. Those ten days, that's what we've been asking why not six, why not twelve, so we've been told by Deputy Plaga that it's basically some kind of module where people go into a five-day quarantine, so that's why. Well, I guess if it were in a normal regime, I'd give these amendments. Here I take it as a subject towards the Minister, so that they simply respond to it. I think that when it's longer - I'm sorry - in that position, so that basically the decrees and directives will use methodical recommendations more often. And here's where I think it would be appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u29	Thank you, honourable Member. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking over the meeting at the moment. I see that the President of the ANO movement member Alena Schillerová is reporting. Before I give her my word, I would still like to read two apologies, and that is Mr Ing's apology. Vojtěch Munzar from today's meeting, for personal reasons, and further apologies to Richard Brabec from today's meeting, for health reasons. So, Prime Minister of the ANO movement, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have noted several questions here during the debate towards the Minister of Health. I don't want to take a break to not drag it out, but I heard that he was standing here in the lobby somewhere, so I wanted to ask his colleagues if they would invite him in, because the law certainly has something to do with health problems, some Members asked, so I have a big request not to take a break, I don't want to drag him in here to be invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u31	So there's a request - perhaps one of the members of the government will alert the Minister of Health. Before this is the case, we continue the general debate in which Mrs Marie Pošarová is duly signed up, and I will allow myself to give her the floor to come here to the counter at the moment. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u32	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me to speak on behalf of the SPD movement to the Government Bill on Extraordinary Directorial Leisure and Emergency Education in a distance way for the COVID-19 epidemic period and on the amendment of Act 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic. Even the education of the pandemic did not spare the coronavirus. Classic classics took theirs and moved from the school benches home. But schools with online teaching did not have much experience. Moreover, they had to react immediately. Our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement supports a government bill that will increase the principal's ten-day leave and allow schools, if necessary, to switch to distance education if the teacher's choir is affected by the covidum-19... [[SPD]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u33	Madame, I'm going to interrupt you. I'd like some peace in the courtroom. If there's anything you need to do, please go to the lobby. And I'm sorry I had to step in like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u34	It's okay. The proposed law should not only apply to the current situation where the infected with coronavirus variant omicrons is increasing. It is a general law that can be applied at any time in the future when a pandemic emergency is announced and the directors consider that the situation has arisen. The school law currently allows directors to declare five days available per year for serious reasons, especially organisational and technical reasons. According to the Ministry, most of them have already used or planned this number of days in the current school year. The health department may decide to close the school with a large number of infected pupils. The Act on Extraordinary Directorial Vacation and Extraordinary Remote Teaching should help directors deal with situations where more teachers find themselves in quarantine. The proposal allows the school director to exercise jurisdiction in extreme cases to declare extraordinary directorial leave or extraordinary training in a distance of up to ten days during the school year in cases where, due to quarantine, isolation or other restrictions arising from the covid-19 infection, on the part of the school's teaching staff, it is not possible to provide education under the school law. This institute, of course, gives the director the opportunity to take an extra leave and extra distance education and enables him to respond flexibly to the adverse situation caused by the epidemic in a short period of time. Since it is limited to the purpose for which special days of leave or special days of distance teaching can be used, and also the scope for up to ten days, it is thus ensured that this institute will be used only on purpose, and there will be no excessive restriction on teaching. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u35	Thank you, ma'am. We are still in the general debate. No one has made a point of fact, and Jan Lacina is reporting to the general debate at the moment. Before I give him the floor, I would like to say that Mr Karel Smetana will vote today with a replacement card of 35. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond briefly here to the words of my fellow Members from the Committee of Education, President Vondrák, who I am very pleased to see as consensually led by this committee, and I hope that it will also lead on consensually. Everything suggests it. There have been words about it coming late, this proposal or this novel. I agree with that, it could have come about a year ago. I'm sure we'd be in a much more comfortable position at this point than we are. I did one more thing, because I worked quite a long time as deputy mayor for education in the 100,000 city district, and we have a lot of these school facilities, so I contacted some of our directors with the question of the magic number ten, and they gave me a simple answer, that number ten is enough for them. I know, I'm aware that they're high-quality managers, they've proven that in the last two years, when the pressures that hit them have often been unbelievable. They did it all, so I am absolutely convinced that they will deal with this instrument wisely. And so let me take my hat off in front of all the principals of the elementary schools and other schools - now imaginarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u37	Thank you, too. So it was Mr Jan Lacina, and another one for the general debate is registered by Zdeněk Kettner, so at this point I would ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u38	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I certainly commend the opportunity to increase the powers of directors, unfortunately this time only in one particular case. The powers of directors should certainly be greater. Later I will get to what leads me to this view. But I have to say, those ten days-- it's actually two working weeks. It is great in this regard that the director has a chance, because in general, I consider all the directors to be college-educated and self-thinking people who are in their place, and they must at that moment - this is a general problem systemic in our education, on the shoulders of our directors constantly rolling on other and other requirements, other and other things that they have to meet, really, the director in some moments to sleep at that school. This means that, in addition to increasing the director's powers in this particular case, we should, in general, consider what to do with the Director not being a slave to his work. I was intrigued because the administration is incredible that this is to be dealt with by a course where directors learn to delegate a burden to someone else. I had to read that several times to believe my own eyes. We're always talking about cutting back on the overcrowded administration and so on, and we want to deal with it by not restricting it, maybe increasing it, and making sure that it's not too much for the director, so that he can fit someone, as the people say. And I wonder who the headmaster's gonna pin it on, the cleaning lady or the cookbook lady? Because what we're gonna talk about when I take the chain of command that comes into consideration next is the deputy director. But they do not have so much limited time, they have their direct teaching activity, so they will probably not be happy about it either. The second thing is what the directors have to deal with. And unfortunately, today's director - we still assume that there are graduate teachers in the position of directors who have had some teaching practice - the problem is that we want them to do something completely different as directors. You might say, I'm starting to feel that perhaps there should be a separate study field at the faculty called Director, because he has to deal with economic issues, he has to solve legislative issues, now he has to take over the work of county sanitation stations to make sure it's not wrong. And we're actually throwing the principals overboard. [[15.40 hours]] My personal experience: I was spoken to by a colleague, an experienced teacher who was in school for 23 years, who started the year before me, and she said with tears in her eyes that she had had had enough and that she was seriously considering quitting, living with that education. By the way, at our school, she made classes with Montessori elements. She really devoted an incredible effort, her own finances, she arranged everything practically by herself and started Montessori's class, which is an amazing thing when parents can choose from teaching methods. And she said, "We're tossed overboard." Some unpopular measures are being made here, but the directors have to declare it, the directors have all the responsibility, but mostly from the parent's point of view. In general, we are now in a state where everything is tossed on by directors and teaching staff and they are actually among the millstones. They decide what they decide, they'll always be the bad guys. I speak from experience. If I follow every precaution in detail, even if the court decided they were wrong, from our point of view, they have no logic, one half... Just as society is divided, parents are equally divided. So the principal decides to strictly follow everything, and he's already got a lawsuit coming from half his parents. So he decides: I'll keep my senses a little bit loose, and then the other half of the parents will sue him, who just feel like they're gonna kill their kids. And those directors have absolutely no support in this regard. Further, how the information about what the directors are supposed to do works now. Now, in the current situation, there's nothing weird about when the principal comes to the data box with information about what to do from Monday morning, and it comes to her in the data box on Sunday night. I'm not quite sure if the Ministry of Education has an idea about the hours of directors and teachers, but I'm not quite sure that the principal sleeps at that school and regularly every hour finds out if something came to his data box, and not only sending it to him on Sunday is pointless when I want it Monday. The second thing is that the director must have time to prepare how to apply the recommendation in some way in order to enter into force. That means that we really get those directors to the edge of mental stamina and physical. And as my colleague said in front of me, the hat goes down in front of the wardens, they're not giving us mass statements anymore. This means that this amendment, the possibility that directors can announce the principal's leave of absence, will definitely pull the thorn out of their heels. The Regional Hygiene Station cannot be reached, the Director gets exactly how many children there are in quarantine, how many teachers he has, and the Director, because he is qualified, has experience from practice, within an hour the Director is able to provide full online training. As a teacher, I experienced two waves, actually two school years in a row. First year of school, we all watched it, we had no idea what to do, no one knew. They didn't know it across Europe, and in some cases, we still don't know it. And we experimented in some way, researched. Then the school year ended, the principal called us in for a meeting, we each said our own opinion, and we actually created, even though we were... or this way, we were hoping that nothing else would come, but we knew she was coming. So the headmistress clearly made her own battle plan if we say so. [[♪ So ♪]] We all had to unite so it wasn't chaotic, and we had a clear idea and a vision of how online teaching would take place. That means we were ready for it. But frankly, online learning will never be full. That means, when I hear some of the signs here that online learning should be some sort of norm, a full-fledged addition to the presentation studio, it's a step in the wrong direction. I'm sure I agree that online learning should be treated in some way, but it's definitely not built on it. The reason is perfectly simple. If you ask the kid in the school team, the worst thing you can do is look at the kid right in front of the school team and ask him if he understands anything. Few kids in the school team find enough courage to raise their hand, I don't understand it, because they feel like they're failing to laugh at him. As a teacher, when I'm standing in class, I'm gonna raise this question, so I don't have to... like this, I don't have to ask that question at all, I'm sorry, but all I have to do is look at the kids, okay? I'm going to end some part, I'm going to look, and now I'm going to look at the eyes scared, looking for help all over the place, and now they're going to say, "Oh, so it's neurodilated here, this seed hasn't sprouted, so let's try it another way, if it doesn't go through the door, we'll do it through the window, if it doesn't go through the window, we'll jump in through the chimney, into the knowledge and knowledge. So really, online learning is the last option. And this is where the director's ability to announce distance teaching in individual classes will allow the maximum possible number of children to receive the best and maximum possible teaching that children deserve. I will no longer delay any further suggestions on how to expand the director's powers, of course I have a lot in my head. But as far as this law is concerned, we will certainly support that the directors really have greater powers, and we have left it to them as professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u39	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance brought up two factual points. Mrs Jana Pastuchová is applying for the first one. Madam, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I'm just making a really short remark. I apologize to a colleague who spoke before this colleague that it could have been here before, like a year ago. Well, it could have been here by 11. 1. When we passed the Act on State Social Support in a legislative emergency, and today the law would be because yesterday the President signed it, so today it could be because I too have many, many reports from directors and colleagues who say that this law is acknowledged, but that it will come with a cross after a funeral, because Omicron will be already behind the mountains. And another thing. Even though it could have been sooner, I... I don't have the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs sitting here, but I'd advise him if he's already thinking that October 28th is the end of the emergency infirmary, where parents can spend the entire time in medical care and are entitled to 80 percent, so that we don't have to have extraordinary meetings again to make sure those parents don't only get 60 again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u41	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. We have another one with a point of fact, and that is Mr Karel Rais. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u42	Thank you. I would respond to a previous speaker, perhaps a director, or a person of knowledge of secondary and primary schools, where I agree with him basically on everything. I would like to highlight here the fact that online teaching is as good as consulting as a supplement, but not as a major tool. So I'd like to actually respond to what we're seeing here as part of this remark. Here's some kind of parent-child information process. Next he's a director, then he's the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. In those two years, I can only see when I look at the relationship of the Ministry of Health - the Ministry of Education, that we fly from one extreme to another. At first, we basically copied what the Department of Health said. That was sacred, and we acted accordingly. Today there is a situation where the Ministry of Health will say: So take care of children in elementary and secondary schools yourself, and actually the problem is passed on to the Ministry of Education, which I think is not entirely right. So I would rather like for Minister Válek to say, for example, what is the link between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health regarding the creation of these materials, because it seems to me that - I do not wish to regret anyone - but in quotation marks the poor Ministry of Education has it all on its neck now with potential criminal notifications for mistakes that may occur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. We have another factual point with which Mr Vít Vomáčka came forward. So I'd like him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u44	Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, we are constantly bowing down the credibility of our directors and the ability of our directors. So let's just prove it to them that we'll just approve of this. I know what I'm talking about, because I'm from a cantor family where my dad taught eighty-six in special schools after 1968 and then he was a lecturer at a technical university in Liberec. So was my mother, who was a first-degree teacher. As the mayor of Kravař, I know what I'm talking about. Of course, every director is different, but let's leave it to the director, the principal and the founders who really know it. And if I was talking about my mother and dad here, they always said the worst part is that the Big Brother, the state, keeps telling us things, orders us and doesn't give us a little bit of freedom. Let's give this freedom, let's trust our directors, and I believe it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u45	Thank you, honourable Member. I have announced another point of fact with which the rapporteur, Mrs Renáta Zajíčková, is also reporting here, so I would like to ask her if she could come to the speaker's desk. Madam rapporteur, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u46	Thank you. I will respond to my previous speakers, particularly to Mr Kettner, through Madam President. You're familiar with the issues. Of course, we can open up the issue of education here now, and we can discuss topics here from Aš to Tatras. We can also get to the maths, the entrance exams, the inequalities in education, of course we can do all that. But I'd just like to point out that we're dealing with a very current, dramatic, difficult situation in our primary and kindergarten schools, when the directors don't know who's coming to school or coming from teachers in the morning. That's why we have this extraordinary director's leave and special distance teaching institute on the table today. So if I may ask, please, let's not open the topic of education, because, as I say, we can sit here until tonight. Let's cut to the chase, let's figure out what's bothering those principals right now, and that's the paralysis of the teaching corps in both primary and kindergarten schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u47	Madam, thank you for keeping the time. At this point, I see no further factual point, which is why we are returning to the general debate, to which Mr Viktor Vojtko is duly registered. I will ask the Member to come to the speaker's desk. Ambassador, I give you my word at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, let me also say a few words on this subject. I am clearly in favour of this proposal. I think this is dealing with an acute situation that has now occurred in schools. As a representative of the founder in the regional city, I know how specific numbers of diseases and the problem of the functioning of schools evolve in our country. In recent days, the increase is enormous and the need for this type of solution is quite clear. I'm a little sorry that we haven't really had such measures in a long time, because we're putting out a little fire that we could have prevented to some extent. However, I am sure that we are in favour of discussing this as soon as possible, so that we do not deal with many other matters concerning education today, which are definitely important, but still not the fire that burns here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have another report for the general debate, and that is Mr Radek Koten, so I will ask the Member to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u50	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry I don't have mouth protection, but I'm a week out of losing my covid, I'm tested, and I really wouldn't breathe it, so I guess you wouldn't listen to me for a long time. I would like to return here to that law, which is supposed to in some way allow schools to work if they have either a great positive for pupils, whether it's omicron or some other version of coronavirus. However, I think the instrument is needed. On the other hand, we must say that all these measures are causing a huge problem for all parents who have children in schools. Another view is that children who come out as positive, often, or, rather, 99 percent, do not even find that they have any symptoms, because child immunity is completely different from the immunity of adults. I know that there is a need to prevent any further spread, but unfortunately this happens in the families where the children live. At this time, it does not work in any standard way in schools, because children are somehow separated by classes and so on, and it does not allow virtually all the measures that sanitary stations and the Ministry of Health have set up. So, unfortunately, instead of handing the kids over to the group in the morning, parents have to wait, like, half, three quarters of an hour before the teachers take them to the presentation class, that is, right into the classroom, so that the kids don't meet anywhere in the party. That is what I think is quite a burden for working parents, because everyone loses at least an hour to two here with this measure. With regard to distance teaching, rotational teaching and presentation teaching, I would certainly support what Mr Kettner said here, because it is clearly confirmed that the social ties that children have with each other there, so it doesn't replace anything, no screen and nothing. As for rotational teaching, when half and half went to meet children at least, it was a better solution than distance teaching, but again it was challenging for teachers, because on the one hand they had those distance children who were at home at the screen, and on the other hand they had pupils in their classrooms, so it was very difficult for the faculty. [[16.00 hours]] As far as school directors are concerned, it was enormously burdensome for them because organizing teaching and organizing the course of the school, including visiting the cafeteria, was almost superhuman performance for them. I believe that most of us, including education workers, and including parents, are really fed up with this, and I just hope that the omicron option will end this covidal disease problem, because we are still spinning around here, and we are able to close the whole school where pupils are present, who are relatively very resistant against covid, and besides a positive test have no consequences or health problems. I think that if you go back to your childhood, more than half to two thirds of the kids had noodles at their noses in the winter, and no one really bothered them with some kind of testing. I think I'd appeal to that too. And as for the use of drapes in individual classes, I really don't consider it reasonable, because if you measure the saturation with oxygen by some pulse ox meter, you'll find that there's a relatively substantial drop in blood oxygen in children, and from my point of view, it's completely inappropriate for children. And if I compare the risks that are taught with a mask and possible brain damage due to the fact that the baby is not oxygenated, and the blood flow is dramatically deteriorating there, then really if I should put on a bowl of scales, then the children, if they drink or have snacks, will take off the drape anyway, and it's counterproductive, because the drape is lying differently on the table between the food and so on, and from my point of view, it doesn't really have a big significance for preventing the spread of variations in schools in any way. Since experts say that the omicron as such is very contagious, I don't think the drape is really gonna stop those kids from transmitting. I'd still be back here just to see what the directors really have to do and all those who work in education, so here I looked up from primary school, I warn you, from Rybitví, so I looked up the primary school code. It's an order that responds to the covid pandemic, because it's the school policy of 2020-2020, and there are a few articles that define some rules, and I think it would probably be beneficial if we, in some way, were to revive it here, too, who have some influence on it, and we can somehow move the functioning of schools so that children can go to school, but at the same time not to have two or three months of special vacations or lockdowns or the like, because nobody here wants it, nobody wants it, and even less working parents, who have children who have distance teaching, have to deal with it, of course. Employers are not happy about this, and then the individual businesses here are also looking for employees abroad, because they usually come here without children, so this problem of distance learning does not apply to these employees. But unfortunately in the Czech Republic this causes a completely different type of problem. As far as this primary school rules are concerned, there is a general provision that "the common objective of all school employees and the legal representatives of pupils is to assist each pupil in his individual development and to enable pupils to enjoy schooling. " I'd poke that in here, because if the kids wouldn't like to go to that school, unfortunately, it's happening now that kids after distance teaching, that they don't even want to go to the collective, and I think this is very beneficial. "The basic condition of coexistence and the development of mutual quality relationships is meaningful, understandable and respected by all school regulations. The rights and obligations of pupils, their legal representatives at school and details of their mutual relations at school must, of course, correspond with those of the school staff." And then there are the rights and responsibilities of the pupils: " (a) Pupils have the right to education and school services under the Education Act.' I am now referring to the functioning of the teams, because in schools during this regime, the teams work very badly or do not work there at all. Then " (b) to the information on the progress and results of their education," I think it works in a distance way now, that parents either call to school or have parent associations online. Well, what to add: " (c) To establish, vote and to be elected to school bodies, to work in them and through them, to contact the school principal or the school board, with the fact that the school principal or the school board are obliged to deal with the opinions and opinions of these self-government bodies and to justify their position on them; (d) to comment on all decisions relating essentially to matters relating to their education, with their expression being given attention corresponding to their age and degree of development; (e) information and advisory assistance from a school or a school advisory facility in matters relating to education under the Education Act.' And now we're getting to the core, and I think all the supporters of distance teaching should listen because "2. Pupils are obliged to attend school properly and to be educated properly." And it's really up to us to... we have to let them. If there are any other measures to close schools, they will do unnecessary monthly holidays, two months, distance lessons, so these points will not be able to be followed directly from the school schedule. " (b) Pupils are obliged to participate actively in distance teaching online if they are ordered by the head of the school or by his superior authority.' That's the distance lesson we were talking about. " (c) Compliance with the school's rules, regulations and guidelines on health and safety to which they have been informed." This is testing that requires sanitation stations, or it requires the Ministry of Health. Well, it's pretty much determined how someone's gonna wake up right now, because otherwise I can't explain that if someone thinks a student can't deliver, even if a negative test comes out, of course he can. From my point of view, testing is of no great importance because the pupils have no bad reaction to this, especially to the omicron variant, because it manifests itself in 95 to 98 percent of cases by scratching one day in the throat and having a cold for two days, such that they blink one, two handkerchiefs a day, so it's more of a marginal symptom. Then, chasing children for further PCR tests in case the antigen test comes out positive, so that's another thing, and the resulting quarantine for the child, so if the child can't be alone at home, then of course there are other problems for the family afterwards, because the family has to take care, and employers of such parents are really very happy, because then they must be at home office if it is possible, if the job requires a job somewhere to scaffold, it really doesn't work. [[16.10 hours]] Unfortunately, we've been meeting such a mess here lately. Children who are, for example, in high school, so some children get vaccinated in the classroom so that they can go on vacation to the mountains and so on, and then those children who are not vaccinated are obviously the target of this - and exactly in the sense that our society is distributed - that they are basically perspirated by classmates and within the doctrine that the media present to us here, so they are actually the carriers, they are the bad guys, they are the unscathed, and therefore they are actually humiliated and ridiculed and they can be bullied in some way by the vaccinated classmates. Of course, bullying can also be from teachers, because if it is to go somewhere to the theatre, to swimming, and so on, where an antigen test is not enough, but vaccination or some green cod passport must be shown, then of course these children cannot show up there. I don't know if you caught the case - now I don't know if it was in Germany or Austria, but it was in some of the German-speaking countries - that the child was writing a test in the garden outside the school so he wouldn't miss the test. This is precisely an example which, of course, is contrary to this point in our Czech order, and I hope that we will not really get this far here in the Czech Republic. Here one of the other points is "actively participate in teaching and be properly prepared and equipped to teach". Well, I think it's obvious because schooling is the basis, and it's clear that children have to be equipped with some pencils, periodic penalty payments, books, and so on. They must therefore "respect the school's health and safety guidelines, follow the principles of safety and hygiene, such as road traffic rules, both during and outside the school's premises and at the school's events outside the school's building. Well, that's a pretty bad example, but of course it applies to respiratory protection and, of course, to some hand hygiene, if they're going somewhere on a tram or subway from school, then I think it's perfectly okay to follow the school's regime as far as the hands are concerned. What kind of mode does the principal set up at school, I think it's clear to everyone here. And now we're going to the next point, and that's coming to class at least ten minutes before class starts. This is precisely the point that the morning group, which is normally from seven o'clock, or used to be before 2020 and before the measures, was abolished precisely because of the reasons that we said here that classes should not be mixed with each other because of sanitary measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u51	Ambassador, I'll step in. Once again, I will ask all Members of Parliament to remain calm in the Chamber, and if you need to take care of anything to go to the lobby. If you speak at the speaker's desk, it also disturbs you so much if the hall is so noisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u52	Thank you very much. Of course, it's drying out how I speak, but I'm gonna give it a little bit more, because I want to finish up here on this side of the order, so that we all realize here what the teachers and the kids are experiencing every day at school. So now, "come to class no later than ten minutes before the beginning of the class. " So basically the interpretation of this school rule is that by not being the group, just ten minutes before the class starts, there's a teacher or a teacher from that class, and so she takes the kids right through the locker room into her classroom so they don't meet. And that is one of the things that is extremely delaying parents who need to get into the work process as soon as possible. From my point of view, it might be such a helpful gesture of those schools that it would open up half an hour before the beginning of the class so that parents could prosecute a fine job, and then during the afternoon party, so that they could actually pick up the children again after eight hours of working time without having to take an hour off to make it all in rush hour. So I think it would be good to sort it out in some way, too. "Use the premises and facilities and teaching aids of the school to keep them in order. A compensation for the damage suffered will be required for the intentional damage to the school's property.' So I guess we remember someone scribbling on the bench with a pencil, that's probably okay. "Beware of the good name of the school and its behavior to represent the school in public." So I think that distance teaching is not possible, and we really need to focus more on presentation teaching. Then the student can represent the school. Then there is another point, and it is "to seek constructive solutions to possible conflict situations at school, disagreements and arguments to resolve discussions, not physical harms." Well, it's hard to avoid contact between pupils, but the teacher must be ready to intervene there in time and explain it well to the children, with the fact that he should then communicate with the parents of the individual pupils, so that the situation may not happen again in the future. "When coming to school, change to suitable safe slips. Well, I guess it's pretty obvious, too. But there's one thing I'd like to do here, and I'm afraid that happened during that distance class, because a lot of kids got a cell phone, and now they're bringing their phones to school and paying quite or disproportionately more attention to it, and then there's not what's supposed to happen, but more like kids playing with cell phones. So they have a pretty good treatment here, because here in the school code, they say that "such tools are not to be carried to school because they are distracted during teaching." So it's very well written and I think it's very good. Since it is a kindergarten and a first-rate school, I would say that the order is very visionary, because it says here that "the use of drugs and addictive substances, alcohol and tobacco products is unacceptable" Since they've been children for six to eleven years, I think they're visionaries here, and that they've already been treated in this kindergarten and primary school. So let's just hope they go through the security frames in front of the school and check to see if they have any marijuana or a liter of rum. "In case of loss of school affairs, inform the teacher or any employee of the school immediately." That's what I think needs to be done, because I've seen this situation mediated, that the baby came home in a completely different jacket and in completely different gym sweats. That's what I think is okay, and that it should also be treated in the school code, so that parents can switch. "Following the order of the individual classrooms." Well, that's okay, too. And most importantly, there is one last remark: "Keep this school schedule and do not leave the classroom for no reason during small breaks except when the student needs a health break." That's where I think they're treated well, too. I won't keep you all here any longer, and I would really appeal to that, those ten days, I think it's optimal for the director, that they can move it there, but I'm not really a fan of any other special new holidays and the like, because it has a major impact on the education of children, and if you count all the holidays that the children have taken last year and already this year, unfortunately, we have to say that children have often had four, five and six months of vacations. We should avoid this at this time and, above all, really pressure on the presentation class. This is just an instrument, really, if there were 90 percent of the children positive, there really would be nothing left for this director to do but shut the school down for four or five days, because the weekend is also two days, and then it will fit into a five-day quarantine. So thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u53	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, I would like to read an apology, and that is Mr Patrik Nacher's apology, today from 14:00 to 18:00. At the same time, I would like to ask you that, at this point, I would like to speak with priority rights, so I must be replaced by my colleague Jan Skopeček in the House's chair, and I thank him accordingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u54	Good afternoon from me, too. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u55	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, Mr Minister of Education, I too would like to speak on the presentation of this Act on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary education in a distance way for the period of disease epidemic. I would certainly like to thank you for presenting this proposal and addressing this problem, whether there are reactions to distance teaching here, but above all for the fact that the school's headmaster will be able to declare ten days of principal leave. And I would like to open up a question about that here, and that is a question that I think has something to do with it, and that is the question of the infirmary. The infirmary, of course, deals with another law, but at the moment, the infirmary affects children under the age of ten, and I think that if there is an extension of this time and the principal's leave, there is a question, and I would like to open up here just a discussion on the possible increase in the limit of entitlement to the infirmary, as was the case in the past for a certain period at one wave of covideo, where this border increased to a certain period of 13 years. I would like to know the opinion of the Minister of Education. I'm a little sorry that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is not here at the moment, whose competence is governed by the law. At the same time, I would also like to report that I would like to open this question here, and, if we did not find or find a consensus on it, I would still like to ask, in a detailed debate, whether it would be possible to address this issue and, if necessary, in some short or shortest period of time, to submit an amendment to the law, which, if any, would identify - or possibly increase - the age limit as it was in the past during the same wave, which was 13 years old. So I would be very pleased, Minister, if you will also comment on this, if you will. And I think that it has a lot to do with it, and from the regions at this point, the signals are echoing so that I think that even this question is right here at this point in time to open it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u56	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Another report for the debate - Mr Kasal is making a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would follow up on my colleague, through you, and I would just like to say that it is certainly not only about the age limit, but there are a number of children who may be 15 years old who may have an autistic spectrum disorder or other things and may fall into this category as well. So if we were to think about raising that line, then I would only argue that these groups of children should be thought of, because then the problem is significantly larger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u58	I, too, thank you for keeping time. I have no one else here with a factual remark, so Mrs Renata Oulehlová is enrolled in the proper debate. Madame, at this moment, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u59	Hello, Madam President, hello, fellow Members. I have been enrolled in a proper debate on this subject, an extraordinary principal's leave, an increase, with the fact that it is certainly an excellent instrument for school directors. But I wanted to draw attention to a problem that, thanks to the President, is already in plenary, and it is that I am really being approached by the parents of children who go to the fourth, fifth grade, that they will not be entitled to the infirmary. I would like to put in a very good word for helping these parents because they don't have that much vacation, mostly on short notice, and those parents really can't take care of their children. I'm the mother of a 12-year-old son myself, and I know that when he was in the fourth, fifth grade, I'd be very nervous to have to leave him alone at home. So I just wanted to ask you this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u60	Thank you. That was Mrs Renata Oulehlová. We are still in the general debate where Mr Vladimír Zlínský is duly signed up. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u61	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Exceptionally, I won't be controversial, I'll praise you. This law proposes that school directors should be able to apply ten extra days of director's leave in case of covid-19 epidemic, or possibly ten days of distance teaching, which, from my perspective, gives school directors greater flexibility to respond to the specific epidemiological situation in the school affected by pandemic covid-19. It is necessary to maintain the teaching of pupils and students throughout the Republic, both across and around the current waves of the Omicron variant, so that they do not rejoin the area measures and lockdowns, which have had a very negative effect on the education of our children. Unfortunately, with regard to the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on Czech education and our children, this was overwhelming compared to the rest of Europe, as our pupils and students were among the most affected length of school closure. As a result, pupils and students were demotivated, frustrated during distance teaching, and it could be said that it was extremely impossible to maintain the appropriate quality of teaching. Long-term distance learning has also deepened the differences between pupils because they depend on family background, and more successful students have been more motivated to work even under these unfavourable conditions and to work with the lecturer during distance learning. Unfortunately, overall, the quality of education has fallen, as the concentration and motivation of pupils in distance teaching gradually declines with its length, not to mention the absence of practical teaching, whose operation is, to put it mildly, very problematic, I would say impossible. [[16.30 hours]] I must point out that I have had a personal experience, more precisely, my two daughters, who are studying college, basically the last final two or three years during this pandemic, when daughters were affected by this mainly because they had no contact with the teachers. Even in these higher years, special emphasis is placed on practical teaching, and it has basically been completely abolished. The younger daughter, who studies molecular biology, could at least have gone to a laboratory where she collaborated on research, so she did not suffer it, but the older daughter, who studies machinery school, suffered significantly more. Another thing I have to say was that they often passed the exam online, which was very unfavorable, because contact with the examiner is extremely important, and during that, they assessed it online so that it is very stressful. The only advantage I've noticed is that girls who have ever spent a lot of time on a computer with unproductive activities can be said to have slightly opposed this stay on a computer, so I would appreciate it as the only advantage of this distance teaching. I'll give you a couple of numbers for interest. Due to extraordinary measures, schools did not attend approximately 1.7 million pupils and students, of which they are the most pupils of primary schools or were the most pupils of primary schools, of which there were approximately 953 000. As a result of long-distance teaching, most vocational schools, and as I have spoken here, even from the high schools, will be graduates with a lack of practice in future years. Practical teaching in secondary schools in 2021 worked 92 days out of 188, i.e. about 52 percent of the time. That is why we support this bill, which flexibly solves problems with sick and positively tested pupils at local level without the need for surface measures. In recent times, the effect of these measures is considered to be counterproductive and harmful even in terms of comparison for and against, i.e. that the negative effect outweighed the positive benefits of suppressing individual waves of pandemic disease covid-19. Of course, we wish to abolish all measures in schools and throughout society, just as they do in the UK and Ireland after the peak of the omicron variant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That was Mr Vladimír Zlínský in the general debate. At this point, I have a report from Mrs Eva Fialová to the general debate, and I will ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u63	Hello, thank you for your word. First of all, I want to say that I am calling this proposal off, but I will still have a few questions for the Minister. It is known that I am very interested in excluded localities, so I want to ask how this proposal was consulted with school directors in typical excluded localities, because in some way distance teaching is not entirely optimal from my experience. In what way - if you have information - how much these schools are equipped with electronization, connectivity and so on, because there is a big problem that these families do not have their own wifi at home, their internet connection. On the other hand, loaning a laptop in some way is very risky, I say it quite openly. And from the past - distance lessons did not take place in the ideal way when students went to school for their homework. A certain day they were supposed to hand them over and meet at a certain hour so they wouldn't meet each other, and making sure that the kids didn't even see each other on the street is very problematic. How will this be dealt with when most personnel are at home in isolation or positive, because I don't think any other way of distance teaching in these locations is very possible? And parents' supervision of some kind of education is miserable. I would really like to know if you have current data on how these schools are equipped or whether you are considering some methodical instruction or helping these school directors because they are often in a very difficult and difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u64	Thank you, too. At this point, no one is reporting to the general debate, but I see that with priority rights the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala club is reporting, so, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u65	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would allow myself to look at the bill with the eyes of the plaintiffs and a little bit of criticism, although these are the things that we agree with in essence, but of course there are things that I think should not be in that law. [[Noise in the hall.]] But let's go for points. First of all, it's an assessment of the current situation. What's the current status? Under Law 257 on the protection of public health, as amended, the public health authorities have an epidemic...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u66	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. They're seeing a lot of activity in the hall again. I would ask all Members to deal with this in the lobby if they want to do something. Thank you very much and I apologize to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u67	It's okay. I thank the Minister of Education for sitting here to hear it, because it is obvious that no one else in his government cares about the school bill. So let's go again. What's the current status? Today, the authorities of public health protection in an epidemic have the power to decide on the regulation of isolation and quarantine in individual cases or for epidemiological reasons on the closure of a school or a school facility. At the same time, according to the methodology instructed by the principal health care officer on the uniform procedure of the regional health administration for the regulation of quarantine in schools and educational establishments in connection with covid-19, the possibility of a regulation to close or limit the operation of the school is valid that, in the event of a confirmed occurrence of covid-19 disease or quarantine regulation in schools and educational establishments, more than 30% of teaching staff and children, pupils or students who are preceded by an increasing trend of disease, the risk of possible sources of disease and other transmissions of the disease is so high that it is recommended to order the closure or limitation of the operation of the school or school establishment. In less serious situations or where the operation of the school is not possible due to the staff shortage of teachers due to their quarantine, the local regional hygiene station shall carry out individual assessments and recommend, in agreement with the school director, any other school closure or school establishment regime. Therefore, public health authorities are also counting on the use of tools under school regulations in some cases to address the epidemic. Public health authorities shall exercise their powers primarily from the point of view of health. However, there may be situations where, for example, the impact of the covid-19 epidemic will affect the possibility of teaching. Based on part of this pre-school, primary, secondary, higher vocational and other education law, as amended, the school sets out cases where the school is required to provide distance education for children, pupils and students. [[16.40 hours]] This is where, because of emergency or emergency measures or because of quarantine, the personal presence of the majority of children, pupils or students of that class, group or workplace is not possible, with the fact that the transition to distance learning only concerns the children concerned, pupils and students to whom the possibility of personal presence at school or those affected by quarantine measures is restricted by an emergency or emergency measure. Well, that's clearly what's happening at the moment. This provision therefore addresses the situation of pupils and students affected by the relevant antiepidemic measures and the maintenance of their right to education, albeit modified. Education in a distance manner is carried out by the school according to the relevant framework education programme and school education programme to an extent appropriate to the facts. The fact is that distance education is not quite ideal anymore because social contacts are being lost, the children communicate at least together and the volume of the substance that is being discussed in a distance way is significantly lower than it would be if it were a presentation class and those children would normally go to school as they should go to school. This means that we are in favour of limiting the attendance course as little as possible. Already under the school law, the school principal has the authority for serious reasons, especially organizational and technical, to declare for pupils a maximum of five free days in the school year. So today the principal has a chance to announce five free days in the school year! Most schools have already used or planned to use these five free days in the school year, just in 2021/2022. From the course of the epidemic, it turns out that the directors are using this so-called directorial leave as a flexible tool to address precisely the consequences of the outbreak at school. It's an immediate solution. However, since they have only five days under the Education Act, this does not create sufficient room for dealing with the occurrence of the disease and the restrictions resulting from it. That's why we're sitting here today to make it ten days out of five days, to make it ten days more so that we can increase the flexibility and space for the school heads. An exceptional option is the procedure whereby the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports can determine differences in the organisation of the school year in individual cases worthy of special consideration, even at the request of the school head. Unfortunately, the above-mentioned legal instruments still do not respond well enough to situations where isolation, quarantine or disease primarily affects school teachers, thereby preventing or significantly restricting the ability of the school headmaster to provide education under the school law. So let's say, what are the main principles in the proposed regulation that we are discussing here today? The proposed law gives the head of the school the power, in extreme cases, to declare an extraordinary principal's leave or extraordinary training in a distance of up to 10 days during the school year where, due to quarantine, isolation or other restrictions arising from the covid-19 infection, on the part of the school's teaching staff, training under the school law cannot be provided. The current legislation does not contain the possibility of solving such a high absence of teachers, as it happens in schools at present, when the school principal cannot therefore provide teaching under the rules of the school law due to objective circumstances. The Institute of Extraordinary Directorial Leisure and Extraordinary Distance Education gives the Director the opportunity to react flexibly to the adverse situation caused by the epidemic in a short period of time. The principal of the school will have the opportunity to use this institute only when the state of the pandemic emergency is declared under Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of Covid-19 and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts. This is a very important paragraph precisely because the pandemic law ends at the end of February, which means that we are giving the directors the opportunity to use this approved amendment by the end of February. That's what needs to be realized. Since it is limited to the purpose for which special days of leave or special days of distance teaching can be used, and also the scope up to ten days, it is ensured that this institute will be used only in a targeted manner and there will be no excessive restriction on teaching. That's probably the target. The goal is not for children to stop going to school to stop learning. After all, we said that they were having problems - and they had problems in recent years - to cope with the penzum teaching they had in their curriculum, and I think that's very bad. That means, we'll see, ten days, that should be enough, and I hope we'll be moving slowly away from antiepidemic measures. Let's talk about some of the essentials of what we're discussing here today. The situation caused by the outbreak in the school year 2020/2021 and at the beginning of the school year 2021/2022 showed precisely the need for the director that the directors do not yet have enough tools to provide the teaching. And that is why we are sitting here today to give them much more space, which will allow them to react flexibly, but above all, quickly to the situation without having to ask the Ministry of Education without having to ask anyone else, but they could decide on their own on the basis of the epidemic situation in their region or in their city, in their school, how they behave, so as to ensure the greatest possible penzum of teaching. In the course of the epidemic, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has registered a considerable number of requests from school directors to determine differences in the organisation of the school year in accordance with Section 24 precisely because the school director is unable to provide a presentation course for personnel reasons. In the current school year - and I think the Minister will confirm this to me - that was 52 requests when the directors asked the Ministry of Education to allow them to respond flexibly and flexibly to the epidemic in their school so that they could provide education. However, the examination and processing of the application by the Ministry cannot, by the nature of the matter, be as flexible as the direct decision of the headmaster on the basis of an evaluation of the specific situation. There are legal deadlines and it is clear that the Ministry cannot react so quickly, it simply cannot. I am convinced that the Ministry, when it responds - and now it is nothing against you, Minister - will be over by the epidemic, so it is necessary for directors to have these tools and to respond on their own. Since, according to the available data, the Czech Republic is facing a wave of more contagious variations of omicron, greater flexibility in this matter seems necessary. The possibility of taking advantage of the Institute of Exceptional days of leave or extraordinary training in a distance way gives school directors a flexible and rapid instrument to respond to the situation without unduly interfering with the rights of children, pupils and students and legal representatives. The draft law therefore transfers the corresponding competence and responsibility to an article of the school system that can respond to an operationally adverse situation. However, the law also gives clear boundaries when the disease between pedagogical workers affecting the possibility of providing education under the school law and to what extent - ten days. The unprecedented epidemic situation is so dynamic that it is appropriate to give directors these powers for the time and to a limited extent necessary. [[16.50 hours]] I am convinced that the Omicron option will no longer affect our population so that hospitals, ICUs will be fulfilled, but in every region, in every city and in every school it may be different, so I understand that we need to make this adjustment to give the directors the opportunity to fight the pandemic in their own way. From the perspective of balancing the right to health protection and the right to education, it appears that allowing extra education in a distance is more gentle on the right to education than the conclusion of a school without education at all. At the same time, there will be no threat to the epidemic situation. That would probably be the worst thing if we started shutting down schools again and the children would not have learned because, Minister, we were one of the countries that shut down schools most in Europe in the short term, most in the whole of the European Union, and the Czech children learned the least of all. But there were also countries that did not close schools at all, such as Sweden, Switzerland. That's where school went all the time, and it didn't matter. When we looked at the number of deaths in their countries, it just didn't matter. That means the pandemic wasn't more transmitted and the country didn't have more mortality by bringing it more to the children. So closing schools would be a catastrophic thing I don't think any of us want. Let me also evaluate the bill's proposal, whether it complies with international treaties, respects this bill's obligation to protect everyone's right to education, which is enshrined in a number of documents of international law and the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. What will be the economic, financial impact of this proposed amendment on the state budget, other public budgets, on the business environment, or on the impact on people with social or disability? Impacts in the state budget due to the announcement of an extraordinary director's leave or exceptional distance education cannot be established in advance. The use of these institutes will give rise to entitlement to the infirmary, and this entitlement also arose in cases where the Ministry of Education, at the request of the school directors, determined differences in the organisation of the school year in accordance with Section 24. But of course, we don't know how strong the epidemic will be, where the city, how the directors will draw these ten days and how the teachers will be at home, how they'll be in quarantine and the like, how much it's going to be, so those impacts can be very hard to estimate. The impact on the state budget due to the emergence of entitlement to the infirmary will thus depend on the extent of the spread of the disease and the associated frequency of use of the proposed institutes. That would probably be all from the beginning, and now let's look at the shortened negotiations in a state of legislative emergency. The Rules of Procedure Act provides that, in exceptional circumstances, where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage, the President of the House shall declare a proposal by the Government for a legislative emergency approved by us. We can discuss this law and we will discuss and discuss it in a legislative emergency, so I think there is no need to talk about it more. Let me comment on some of the specialities of the individual parts of the law. The headmaster of the school is allowed to announce additional days of extra leave in the school year beyond five days of the principal's leave, which may be declared in accordance with Section 4, but whose notice is limited by compliance with the conditions. Compared to the principal's leave under the Education Act, it is possible to declare this extraordinary principal's leave even in the case of kindergartens and language schools with the law of state language examination. However, they are always only schools registered in the school register. That's, I think, an important thing. The school heads, excluding kindergartens, are then also allowed to declare special education days in a distance manner. The specific conditions under which the Director may do so are already laid down in the Education Act. The school's headmaster makes available up to ten days for both options, i.e. for both extraordinary principal's leave and for extraordinary education, so it is possible for the school's headmaster to declare, according to specific circumstances, for example, 6 days of emergency education in a distance manner and in the future, to declare four days as an extraordinary principal's leave just when the conditions set out in the school law are met. It means, it's such a peculiarity that the director doesn't have to draw the ten days in whole, but he can divide it into two, three parts, as he sees fit. It is always necessary to assess the specific circumstances sensitively and to weigh the impact on the education of children, pupils and students and to choose whether it is possible to proceed through emergency education in a distance way or whether the conditions for extraordinary directorial leave are already met. The above possibilities will be available to the school head only for the duration of the pandemic emergency declared in connection with Act No. 94, on emergency measures. That's the pandemic law we vetoed today. So once again, I point out that the Director will be able to draw on those ten days just for the effectiveness of the pandemic law, which will end at the end of February this year. And then we'll see what happens next, how the epidemics go, how hospitals are going to be fulfilled, how the ICUs are going to be filled, and so on. But we can already say that, for example, Spain, such as the United Kingdom and some other countries, are relaxing antiepidemic measures and the whole pandemic is passing on to so-called endemic diseases, which means the disease that exists here with us and we will simply respond to them seasonally, we will treat it, we will no longer call it pandemics, we will not do any special countermeasures, but we will respond. People will see doctors, practitioners, where treatment must also change. So far, it's been a so-called telephone treatment, when most practitioners have said, "Stay home and take a paralene." But I think it just led to the fact that seven days later, most of those people were in the hospital and that pre-hospital treatment just wasn't good. And I think that the medical closet should inform the physician about how to proceed when someone calls them and tells them that they have covid and how people should be treated. Today we know -- and now forgive me, I might overdo it a little bit -- that it's not about typhus or paratyphus and that these people need help. And I think that practical doctors should think about it, they should have a system in how they will help people in the early days of the disease. But take the paralena and just stay home, don't go anywhere, it's just wrong. It is always necessary to assess the specific circumstances sensitively and to weigh the impact on the education of children, pupils and students and to choose whether it is possible to proceed through emergency education in a distance way, or whether the conditions for extraordinary directorial leave are already met. The above options will be held by the school headmaster only for the duration of the pandemic emergency declared in accordance with Act No. 94, on emergency measures, that is, with the pandemic law. Kindergarten schools are subject to the possibility of declaring extraordinary directorial leave, the possibility of declaring exceptional education in a distance manner does not apply to them, as nursery schools are generally not obliged to provide distance education to all their children in epidemic situations, but only to children with pre-school education obligations. [[17,00 hours]] Since it is necessary to apply the institutes under this law to the school as a whole, or to the individual workplaces of the school, in this context the Institute of Emergency Training is not usable in a distance way for kindergarten schools. The head of the kindergarten shall continue to be able to limit or interrupt operations under Section 3 of Decree No. 14 of the Collection Act. [[No. 14/2005?]] However, the procedure under the proposed law is more advantageous for the head of the kindergarten because it is an administratively less demanding procedure, because it is not necessary to discuss the matter with the founder, and it is clear that legal representatives of children are entitled to the infirmary. This also sets out a range of children, pupils and students involved in emergency education in a distance way. The school head is required to report. This means that it is not only that the Director decides, but the Director is obliged, in addition to the students and students themselves, to inform children's and minors' legal representatives, of the announcement of an extraordinary director's leave or extraordinary education, distance education, as well as its founder. All actors shall inform the head of the school as soon as possible after making the relevant decision. According to specific circumstances, the school director will have the competence to decide whether to issue an extraordinary director's leave or extraordinary training in a distance manner, and such an announcement will then concern the whole school or individual school workplace, not specific classes of classes, groups and the like. If the school director declares a leave or distance mode of education only for certain workplaces, then these leave days will apply only to children, pupils and students educated in this workplace. For other workplaces for which the school headmaster has not used an exceptional principal's leave or distance method of education so far, the school headmaster will still have all up to ten days available. Conditions shall be laid down which must be fulfilled in order to be able to declare extraordinary management leave. These are cases where, due to isolation, quarantine or covid-19 diseases of educational staff, it will not be possible to provide attendance training in accordance with school law and at the same time it will not be possible to provide distance education under Section 184a of the School Act, typically it will be the case, for example, where the majority of the teaching body will not be able to carry out activities either directly at school or remotely from another place. Conditions shall be laid down which must be fulfilled in order to be able to declare exceptional education in a distance manner. The basic condition is that because of isolation, quarantine or covid-19 disease, the personal presence of teaching staff at school is not possible, and consequently the presentation of children, pupils or students is not possible. At the same time, however, the second condition must be fulfilled, namely that the school principal agrees with the teaching staff to work from another place, i.e. the so-called home office. The said then of course assumes the willingness and the ability to educate pupils from home alone. This will be typical of cases where teachers - at that time in isolation or quarantine, of course - will not have symptoms, or their symptoms will be small and the current medical condition will allow them to work remotely. In view of the overall circumstances associated with exceptional training in a distance manner, as in the case of distance education under Section 184a of the Education Act, the training is determined to be carried out according to the relevant RVPs and SVPs, these are teaching programmes, but to an extent appropriate to the circumstances. Here, too, we need to weigh the specificities of the situation and thus adapt the education provided. As in the case of distance education under Section 184, the obligation of children, pupils and students to take part in emergency education in a distance manner is stipulated. However, this obligation does not apply to pupils of primary art schools and schools with the law of state language examination, as in these schools there is no degree of education, but even these schools have an obligation to provide such education to pupils in the event of the announcement of exceptional education in a distance manner. I think that was probably all I had to say about the bill so far. And thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u68	Thank you, Mr President. And next up, they're reporting for the debate... I'm sorry, there is one point in fact, Mr Stanislav Fridrich. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We know about the Omicron variant for about a month, maybe a little longer than a month. By the time it was in full swing in the UK, our numbers were constantly improving, the illness was falling, the number of people in hospitals fell. I therefore welcome the fact that ten days have been given authority to directors, because the school directors will certainly deal with it, and I am clearly in favour of this law. But what I was wondering and what I got a lot of questions about, why the Health Department didn't respond to the situation in advance, when the data was already there, Professor Dušek warned that it was coming, and it really came up, and we're just dealing with it now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u70	Thank you, too. As another comment, Mr Milan Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u71	Nice evening - and we didn't make a deal with a colleague. I'd like to respond to some of you who said it was late, hopefully the epidemic will be over soon, so let me ask you a question. Minister, of course I am only asking, please, if you could explain whether this law in its final form cannot go against seeking collective immunity. The government has decided: there will be no mandatory vaccination. It suits many, not many. I'm sure we won't get that collective immunity by being all vaccinated -- that is, a parenterally administered substance, whatever we make up. I'm asking if by delaying the fact that we're going to get wet very quickly, and we don't know how the omicron is, but a little bit more from Professor Dušek, or my friend Roman Prymula, with whom I studied, we know that it looks good so far in the sense that the more we lose it, the faster we get, the better we can see the light at the end. I'm asking if, in the end, we don't approve of something that may not be necessary anymore, or even goes against the intention to gain collective immunity. I'm just asking if the Minister would be willing. If not, I wanted to ask you all that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u72	Thank you. And now the duly signed-in Mr Radek Rozvoral. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear government, I would like to comment on the proposal for a law on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary training in a distance way for the COVID-19 epidemic period and on the amendment of Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the disease epidemic COVID-19. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that all Members of the SPD MEP will support this draft law under discussion, because we believe that it is currently needed, and therefore we welcome its negotiations in a short manner, in a state of legislative emergency. In the SPD, we identify with the view that the current legislation is inadequate and that the directors of educational institutions in the law listed do not have enough authority to manage the educational process effectively in their schools. [[17.10 hours]] According to applicable standards, i.e. the school's education law, the school principal has the authority, for serious reasons, in particular organisational and technical, to declare for pupils a maximum of five free days in the school year. Most schools have already used or planned to use these five free days in the school year 2021 and 2022. From the course of the epidemic, it turns out that directors use this so-called directorial leave as a flexible tool to address the consequences of the outbreak at school. It's an immediate solution. However, since they have only five days under the Education Act, this does not create sufficient room for dealing with the occurrence of the disease and the restrictions resulting from it. Unfortunately, the above-mentioned legal instruments do not respond enough to situations where isolation, quarantine or disease primarily affect school teachers, thereby preventing or significantly restricting the ability of the school headmaster to provide education under the school law. The current legislation does not include the possibility of dealing with a high absence of teachers, where the school head cannot therefore provide teaching under the rules of the school law due to objective circumstances. The proposed law gives the head of the school the power, in extreme cases, to declare an extraordinary principal's leave or extraordinary education in a distance of up to ten days during the school year in cases where, due to quarantine, isolation or other restrictions arising from the covid-19 infection on the part of the school's teaching staff, training under the school law cannot be provided. Here we firmly believe...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u74	I apologize, Mr Member, but I ask you, fellow Members, who are debating, to go to the lobby to understand what the Member is saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u75	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Here we firmly believe that creditors are fully competent to assess the real situation and that they will not abuse this other instrument serving them to exercise their powers. Directors should always evaluate this possibility well and let the pupils know in time, especially their parents or legal representatives responsible for their education. We believe that because of a limited purpose for which special days of leave or special days of distance teaching can be used, and also the scope for up to ten days, it is ensured that this institute will be used only in a targeted manner and there will be no excessive restriction on teaching. The proposed law puts an instrument in the hands of school directors to enable them to respond very quickly to the epidemic situation at a specific school. Extraordinary institutes, which are placed in the hands of the Director, will enable them to choose a solution that responds both to the impact, to the dissemination of covid-19, and to the possibility of providing education. In particular, however, account shall be taken of the possibility of maintaining the right to education as far as possible at the moment. If, despite the occurrence of the disease, it is possible for the teaching body to provide distance education, this proposal allows for its temporary introduction even in a situation where education under general legislation would not take place at all. Given the current situation, the proposed school directors will need the most and most likely tools in the coming weeks, and therefore - as I mentioned at the outset of my speech - the SPD movement, in turn all its Members, will vote in favour of its adoption. We welcome the fact that the law provides for the possibility of declaring this extraordinary principal leave in the case of kindergarten schools and language schools with state language examination law against the principal's leave under the Education Act. However, they are always only schools registered in the school register. School heads, except kindergartens, are then also allowed to declare special education days in a distance manner, namely the specific conditions under which the director can do so. The school's headmasters make up for both options, i.e. for both extraordinary directorial leave and for extraordinary education in a distance way, available a total of up to ten days. For example, it is possible for the school director to declare, according to specific circumstances, six days of emergency training in a distance manner and for the remaining four days in the future, as an extraordinary principal's leave - in compliance with the legal conditions laid down. It is always necessary to consider the specific circumstances sensitively and to consider the impact on the education of children, pupils and students and whether it is possible to proceed through emergency education in a distance way or whether the conditions for extraordinary directorial leave are already met. As I have already mentioned, this will always be the responsibility of the headmaster of a specific school. It is quite logical that kindergarten schools are subject to the possibility of declaring extraordinary directorial leave. They are not covered by the possibility of declaring emergency education in a distance manner, as kindergarten schools are generally not obliged to provide distance education for all their children in epidemic situations, only children with pre-school education obligations. Since it is necessary to apply institutes under this law to schools as a whole, or to individual workplaces of the school, in this context the Institute of Emergency Training is not usable in a distance way for kindergarten schools. We welcome the provision in the law that legal representatives of children are entitled to the infirmary. This also sets out a range of children, pupils and students involved in emergency education in a distance way. Here I will just point out that the above proposed law gives the directors an important obligation. The school head is required to report. In addition to the pupils and students themselves, or legal representatives of children and minors, the Director is obliged to inform him of the announcement of an extraordinary director's leave or extraordinary education in a distance form as well as of his founder. All actors shall inform the head of the school as soon as possible after making the relevant decision. The area of education was perhaps the most affected area in the pandemic period after health care. Let us remember that the transition to distance learning was not without problems. Teachers were not fully prepared for this form. The quality of this education remains debatable. However, I do not want to imply that teachers did not prepare or teach at a lower level. The problem was that distance education was difficult to maintain immediate contact with all pupils. Also when examining the knowledge the teacher evaluates the performance of the pupil or student comprehensively, his knowledge, but also verbal speech and so on. In most cases, distance teaching has narrowed the field of evaluation only to the factographic knowledge and completion of electronic tests. But all of this can manifest itself at a distance of time when we observe that there is nothing to build on, that sometimes factual knowledge does not go into depth. The big problem of distance learning is that of first graders, when the teacher is not able to directly observe the grip of the pencil, it is difficult to keep children's attention at a distance, children lack direct contact with their classmates. For secondary schools, especially professional ones, students learn the basics of the studied field in the first years and the teaching of some specialist subjects in the long term may not be effective, such as drawing lessons, technical drawing and so on. We see a big handicap in the teaching of apprentices, when the assessment of skills was replaced by an assessment of knowledge, and this type of study is about acquiring knowledge and skills. For example, which one of us would get the brakes adjusted by an online auto mechanic? No offense to auto mechanics. I've just given it as an example. That is why our SPD movement prefers the possibility of teaching in contact, in the standard way. However, we are aware that promoting a classic form of teaching can cause operational problems. Each school has its own specific conditions, teachers' choir, placements, pupils or students. We see that the conditions available to the directors are not sufficient at the time of the pandemic. Currently it regulates compulsory schooling in the Czech Republic Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, the so-called school law, which defines the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons in education. This law defines compulsory school attendance as a legal obligation for children to attend a school within a certain age range, but also respects school emergencies, such as operational-technical disorders, and allows school directors to grant so-called principal leave, within a maximum of five days of one school year, see Section 24 of the School Act. The pandemic situation caused many schools to be forced by directors for various reasons to grant the principal's leave, and by the middle of the school year they had exhausted it. The reasons were different. But they had a common denominator, and that was covid. If several teachers get sick and another part of the teachers are quarantined, the directors have nothing to do but give the principals leave. It happens that positivity is revealed in the morning at testing. The directors can hardly provide adequate compensation for the educator. Therefore, the idea of a ten-day extension of the principal's leave is rational. We need to realise that pandemics are an extraordinary situation, and therefore we respect that they are being treated differently than we are used to. The SPD movement considers the draft law on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary training in a distance way for the COVID-19 epidemic period and on the amendment of Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures during the epidemic of COVID-19 disease, for constructive, for a law that will offer directors a greater scope of competence in dealing with the emergency situation in schools, and therefore our movement will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Válek has now signed up with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I've been called here several times, so I'll try to explain some things. Of course, the covid mutations are changing. Their virulence is changing, their aggression is changing. Of course, children are not dramatic - except those with PIMS syndrome, which I'm sure colleagues in the ranks of Members know, they know it's a big problem, they know that children die from it, that they don't die enough. In the Czech Republic it is about 500 children with this syndrome diagnosed. It's not easy, it's heart disease and so on. That means I certainly wouldn't dare call it noodles at my nose, because when I was a little boy and I had noodles at my nose, my mom, who's a pediatrician, wiped me and eventually gave me acylpyrin, I certainly didn't go to any doctor. If it's noodles by the nose, it's probably pointless to call a physician, and it's enough to deal with a drug that we buy at the pharmacy. That is not possible in case of covid. In case of covid, the treatment that is needed to be used in time is a fairly complicated treatment of antivirals and monoclonal antibodies, a combination of drugs. The medications are also not without side effects, some of them have a number of contraindications, therefore the treatment must be very precisely set and very precisely dosed, on time. And it's a good thing that all the practical doctors today - and it's not just my credit, or it's the credit of Professor Vašáková, it's the benefit of the clinical team of the Ministry of Health that's been there for a long time - that the treatment is at the hands of all the practitioners and now it's just about every patient - and that's the first thing I'd like to make sound very loud - so that every person who has symptoms, especially if he's a senior, if he's a risky patient, to contact as quickly as possible if he has symptoms, and he's afraid that he might have a couch to contact a practical doctor as quickly as possible, because the medications are available in the Republic. Both the previous minister and I worked very hard on this. This is not a political issue, it is a purely medical matter and there are set-up treatments for all practitioners. I mean, please all patients - it's not because of me, it's not because of Members, it's not because of any government, it's because of you - if you have symptoms, you're in trouble, contact a doctor as quickly as possible, noodles at your nose. As far as collective immunity is concerned. I think this is a big problem, and even though there are a number of doctors in the Chamber of Deputies, we're not one of us immunologists here. I would take the liberty - and I do not think this aggressively now, because, through Mr President, Mr Brázdil, who I respect very much, but he has opened the subject up, and we are debating collective immunity here - and I would try to define how doctors learn to test what collective immunity is. It just needs to be repeated and realized. A collective immunity means a condition where the company is protected from infectious diseases. That's the thing that's obvious, we know about her. There are several ways to achieve collective immunity. In general, achieving this immunity leads to the absence of disease among humans, which means that the disease will cease to spread among humans. If collective immunity is achieved, the disease should stop spreading among people. The mantra, which at the beginning was that where we make collective immunity, the covid would cease to spread, proved odd because the virus mutated, how mutations penetrate the immune system or the formation of antibodies against the disease, even in those countries that bet on it, collective immunity could not be achieved in this way. Then the person, if a collective immunity is achieved, can't infect those who haven't yet acquired immunity, which is why it's called collective immunity. Just those who have immunity protect those who don't have it, who haven't come into contact with the disease or who haven't been vaccinated. The method of achieving immunity is vaccination or disease. We can achieve collective immunity by vaccination or disease, but it has its own butes. The World Health Organization supports the achievement of collective immunity through vaccination rather than by an oceanic approach that leads to unnecessary cases of disease and death. The problem is very pragmatic. In the case of vaccinations, based on large studies, and it does not matter how old the vaccine, when it was developed, is relatively precisely defined, which is why it is necessary to allow vaccines in younger years, in children, because it is difficult to prepare studies to verify this safely enough in children. Therefore, the EMA and other agencies are very cautious when approving vaccines for normal use, so it is precisely given the risk of complications, what these complications may be. It's not certain about the disease. That is, if we have 200 MPs in this Chamber of Deputies, we will all be infected with covid, none of us, none of us! he can't be sure whether the course will be symptomsless, whether the course will be with mild symptoms or if he dies. We just know what percentage is going to die, we know that, because that's what the data is for. The problem is, we can't define who it is by any simple parameters. Yes, we know that risk groups - these are patients who have other diseases who are overweight, who are older, i.e. 65+, where the curve begins to rise extremely, those are the ones who risk dying being higher. The only way we can reduce the risk in a safe way is inoculation, but unfortunately, in the case of covid, none of these routes can achieve collective immunity. And that's probably where the accident is. So what is collective immunity anyway? Collective immunity is expressed by the percentage of immune people in the population, which needs to be achieved to stop the spread of the disease. And in the beginning, when you remember, here in the Chamber of Deputies was the first one: 70 %, 75 %, 80 percent, because we were convinced that it was possible - and not us, but the whole world was convinced of it, and it is no one's fault that the mutations of the virus crashed that belief and that certainty - because we were convinced that by some vaccination, collective immunity could be achieved. This number varies from disease to disease. For example, 95% inoculation is needed to obtain collective immunity against measles, while 80% inoculation is sufficient for polio. It really depends on some parameters. The more contagious the disease is, the greater the value of collective immunity. In general, the more contagious, the faster one can become infected, the greater the collective immunity, 100 percent, it must be higher. And that's the problem with covid, where every mutation increases the risk, the virus's contagion increases. There's nothing we can do yet... and in that case, we can't work with collective immunity. This value depends on the basic reproductive number, this is the reproductive number that has been repeatedly mentioned here. The higher the reproductive number, the higher the percentage would have to be to achieve collective immunity, i.e. how many people on average infect one infected. This is what Professor Dušek repeatedly mentions. What is the goal or purpose of collective immunity - and I will end there. The purpose of collective immunity is to reduce the risk of human infection being passed on to humans, which is extremely important. Therefore, it only works with diseases that spread among people such as measles, polio or diphtheria. There's a collective immunity. In the case of tetanus, which is a disease that is also dangerous, there is no collective immunity because this bacteria is in the soil and therefore not just spread among humans. That's why the idea of a covid that spreads only among humans was the mutation that achieves collective immunity. What happened is that the virus mutates so quickly and it's so virulent that it would basically have to be 100% inoculation of the population to achieve collective immunity, and then it would just be against the mutation anyway, for the next mutation, the percentage would have decreased. Therefore, there is, unfortunately, the only safe way to protect each individual against a serious course of vaccination. There really is no other way. Yes, losing the disease protects the person because he has immunity, but he's got his own, but there's a risk that he's gonna die, there's a lot bigger here than after the vaccination, and none of us know if it's gonna be me, him, him or him. It's just that none of us know, and even some media cases show us that this is how it is. [[17.30 hours]] Of course, the second thing is important, and that's protecting the others. I'm inoculating myself. Protecting others is that I go to the collective when there's no danger that I'll infect him, that I'm spreading the virus. I can do that either by personal protective equipment, which are respirators, different types of respirators, or I can have some kind of examination earlier that says I'm not a virus spreader. This test is basically a PCR test and a less reliable antigen test, but the antigen test has a faster evaluation and it can be done that the test is done with a frequency once every four days, and then the certainty is significantly higher. Only a combination of the two measures is very high probability that I will not spread and will not become infected. Now, the last question that has been raised - the release of measures. We are now in the phase that the omicron wave is coming to the top and starts to fall gradually in the Czech Republic at the beginning of next week. According to Professor Dušek's data, according to all that the independent team analyzes around Dr. Přikrylová and the mathematicians who are from various institutes in it, it is highly likely that the number of infected will start to fall next week, but there will be a problem that the virus, if you notice it, moves not only from west to east, but moves in age categories, so first it begins in children and young people, and then it moves into older years. This is very specific for omicron mutation. This means, in the second half of this week, in the next week, the percentage of seniors who are exposed to the disease will start to increase. That's why the seniors need to be targeted, which is why we've put more leverage on them. Therefore, they need to be treated in time. It would be ideal for those still interested to go on a booster dose because the booster dose 100% protects against hospitalization at ECMO and against serious progress on the ICUs. However, even those who do not go to a booster dose, who do not get vaccinated, are also set up by the system for practical doctors, so that they can apply quality treatment in a combination of monoclonal antibodies and antivirals, which we have due to the previous minister and my sufficient - and thanks to Professor Vašáková. So for this reason, please again for the next two weeks, three weeks especially seniors, especially risky patients: if you develop any symptoms, you do not have a booster dose, you do not want to go to a booster dose, contact your physician. This is the crucial thing you can do for yourself so that we can get you treated in time. The wave should be over by the end of February. At the beginning of March, we should be in a situation where we will be debating restrictions on these measures, as are some other countries. Yes, I would like us to get from the epidemic, from the pandemic to the endemic, something that occurs in some countries in different systems, so that we can catch up on how possible changes go to the Czech Republic in time, and we can respond to that, which we have set up. What is essential is that we limit these measures, as we limit them in the Czech Republic, essentially for anyone who comes to the Czech Republic, and it doesn't matter if it's just Schengen or if it's from all over the world. That's why the debate. And I beg you, of course, both the coalition and the opposition. I'm begging all the colleagues we have here, please, the health committee. They must be very intense and very pragmatic, because we should limit these measures. We should reduce and weaken them in the course of March. I have a plan set up by the National Institute to release these measures. I would like to present this not only to the central management team, not only to the Ministry, but above all to the Health Committee, both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. I would like us to debate the risks associated with the speed of easing measures. It would be good to run the system in such a way that we don't completely get away from how other countries are going to do it. On the other hand, we already have far the weakest measures today if we compare this with Germany, Austria and other countries, and yet the situation is working very well. Again, I'd be stupid to say it's my fault. It is due to the good handover of the government by Minister Vojtěch to já. It's because Anticovid was communicating with the Ministry of Health. It is a credit, I believe, to the very good functioning of the National Institute, which gives good measures, good recommendations, and we are trying to implement these recommendations in full. Yes, by emergency measures. To do that, we need a pandemic law. The pandemic law will probably have to be operational by the end of March if the Chamber of Deputies decides to approve it. At that time, we should be taking measures to a minimum, but we must minimize them in a way - to repeat it again - so that we do not get completely out of the system of neighbouring countries. On the other hand, my idea is that these measures really should be minimal so that life returns as best as possible to normal functioning. We will need to set up a vaccination system in the Czech Republic so that vaccination against covid is as standardised as vaccination against influenza, for example, because there is no other way. We need antibodies, if there are any other mutations, or if there is an omicron - as I explained, collective immunity cannot be easily achieved - to curl antibodies at a time when the curve curls in the Czech Republic, when the virus's force curls in the Czech Republic. It's not a simple matter. It needs to be agreed across the political spectrum and it needs to be very, very carefully planned so that it works for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's what I'm asking you all, and I hope I answered the questions that fell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u78	Thank you, Minister. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Brázdil is registered. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u79	I don't want to delay. The way you said you were thanking me, I thank you, too. You explained - and I'm sorry, we went a little overboard on the pandemic side. But thank you for your explanation, and I really appreciate you getting out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am currently not registering any application for a general debate. Isn't that right? If that is the case and no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate and I want to ask the Minister, or the rapporteur, on the final floor at this point. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u81	Good day again. We've had a bit of a delay in the debate. I just wanted - a few things have already been said here and some things have even been repeated - to answer some of my colleagues and colleagues' questions. You know, we're not in an easy situation, and we're trying to maintain some kind of balance. It's not good for epidemics to spread, but it's not good for children not to go to school. It is not good for parents to stay home from work and without resources, so it is not good for their children to carry disease around schools if they do not stay home. The bill gives great trust to directors, and I am very grateful that we agree across the political spectrum that this is needed. Yes, in some other law and in other debates, especially on the school committee, we will certainly discuss how to support the director, how to make the situation easier for them. There's been a bunch of ideas that the deputies are gonna do it for them. Well, it won't all be because we have legal personality, and it's responsible, and it's always going to be a real director. You, Mrs Vildumetzová, through Mr President, have asked about the infirmary. I'm sorry, I don't feel like the Minister of Education enough to set the line. This is indeed a matter of political debate and my colleague, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Of course, I have some political opinion on this, and I will be happy to lead the discussion in future time and take into account the current situation. I like it very much - it has been said here several times - that we could embody this idea of greater authority to directors in the law, let's say more generally also for various other situations that may occur in schools. I'm applying, and I promise we'll deal with this at the Ministry. [[17.40 hours]] One last thing. My colleague asked about the excluded locations, whether we consulted them. Honestly, it doesn't go against what you're saying is that it's too late, on the other hand, we should have consulted everyone. It wouldn't even be here in March when I hope the omicron will end. On the other hand, I want to assure my colleague from the ANO movement that we will deal with excluded localities. I was in the Karlovy Vary Region last week. We want to work with the authorities, we want to look for ways to solve these problems, and we have prepared money from European funds to ensure that in the future, especially ICT technology, especially in excluded localities, is prepared for school directors, so that they can switch to distance teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u82	Thank you. I wonder if the rapporteur wants to have the final word after this general debate? It's not like that. At this point, I am opening up a detailed debate and registering the application of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please. Before you come forward, let me make it very clear that any amendments and other proposals that are raised here in the detailed debate must always be justified. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u83	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, fellow Members, Minister, thank you very much for your response to the infirmary. I have already announced in the general debate that I will give the accompanying resolution, because I also see that by adopting this law on the principal's leave we will be very helpful to the directors, but we must also help our parents. I guess none of us can imagine that if ten days of principal leave, it's two weeks, and those kids can practically be free. When distance learning is different, it's a bit different because the teacher communicates at least remotely with the student. I would very much like you, Minister, to take this accompanying resolution, not to impose it, but only to ask that we ask you to address this issue because it is here and in the regions it resonates. So I took the liberty of proposing an accompanying resolution, which I would read here at the moment: "The Chamber of Deputies requests the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Education in connection with the adoption of this Act on Extraordinary Directorial Leave to deal with the increase of the border from 10 years to 13 years within the scope of entitlement to crisis care for parents and others, for a certain period, as was the case in the past." The way I've announced, for example, in the first wave. That is the motion for an accompanying resolution. I would hand over the petitioner and the Vice-President at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u84	Thank you. Please refer the motion for an accompanying resolution to the rapporteur so that after he has said the voting procedure, she will have it at her disposal. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone. As no one else is reporting for a detailed debate, I am ending the detailed debate. At this point, I want to ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur would like to have the final words? Mr. Secretary? No. There is no need to give final words, in which case I end second reading of this proposal. Since only the accompanying resolution was read in the detailed debate at second reading, it is possible to continue with the third reading because there were no amendments to the law as such. So I'm asking if it's possible to continue with the third reading without a break. I don't see anyone protesting this procedure. In that case, we'll continue with the third reading. For the purposes of Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act may follow in the short term the third reading of the bill immediately after the third reading, I initiate the third reading of the submitted Government Bill and I expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Member Renáta Zajíčková, to follow with me the debate that I am opening with this. I wonder if anyone is reporting for a third reading debate? I don't see anyone. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I ask both the appellant and the rapporteur if you want to have final words? It's not like that. The motion for rejection was not made, in which case I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Renáta Zajíčková, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u85	Since there have been no amendments, I propose voting on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u86	I will supplement you, after we vote on the proposal as a whole, I would like to put to the vote on the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u87	Yes, please do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u88	We're in line, okay. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary training in a distance way for the COVID-19 epidemic period and on the amendment of Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of medical care in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, according to the House's Press 128, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I will continue to make sure that any Members who are in the foyer come to the vote. I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe and ask you to sign up with your voting cards. I'll read the note that arrived. Today Minister of Transport Martin Kupka apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic from 16.20 to 18.00 for working reasons. The number has settled, I have read the motion for a resolution. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as I have read it? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 66; 162 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 162, against no one. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And I will now ask the rapporteur to read the motion for an accompanying resolution, and I will then vote on it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u89	Thank you. The accompanying resolution on this proposal reads: "The Chamber of Deputies requests the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Education in connection with the adoption of this Act on Extraordinary Directorial Leave to deal with the increase of the border from 10 years to 13 years within the scope of entitlement to crisis care for parents and others, for a certain period as was the case in the past."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u90	Thank you. We all know what we're voting on. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for an accompanying resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 67; 162 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 73, against 5. I note that this proposal has not been approved and has been rejected. I'm registering a request for President Radim Fiala to sign in. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to put an end to this point, and you have the floor, Mr President. [[This is the Minister of Education.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u91	I would like to thank my dear colleagues for the unity, and please take this as a message to the school directors and all the teachers who are now experiencing a really special and challenging situation in the schools. Thank you, Mr. Directors and the Director, for what you're doing for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u92	Thank you, and now President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u93	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are ten minutes left until 6:00 p.m. and the 18 p.m. is a fixed point for the election, I would ask you for a break at the SPD club meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u94	Okay. I'm declaring a ten-minute break. I'll meet you here at 6:00 and we'll continue with the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-001-078.u95	Our esteemed colleagues and colleagues, it is 18 o'clock, the break has passed and we are getting to the fixed points, namely the 60 and 61 points, or the polls.
