ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u1	36. Proposal of the Prague City representative for the Act amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Business Enterprise (Livning Act), as amended /German press 41/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 41/1. On behalf of the council, Hana Kordová Marvanová, the councillor of the capital city of Prague, will present the draft bill, which I welcome here, and I will also ask the rapporteur Vojtěch Munzar to take the position for the rapporteur. I would like to ask the councilwoman of the capital city of Prague, Mrs Hana Kordová Marvanová, who I welcome here to take the opening word for this House of Press. Councilwoman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u2	Hello. Madam President, honourable Members, let me present a brief proposal for an amendment to the Trade Business Act for the representativeship of the capital city of Prague, and therefore of Prague as such.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u3	Councilwoman, I'm gonna interrupt you. I would ask the House and all Members of Parliament for peace and quiet and again I would ask you that if there is anything you need to discuss, go to the lobby of the Chamber. I'll wait a little longer. Councilwoman, I'm sorry and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u4	The capital Prague decided to take advantage of its legislative initiative because, for many years in Prague, and not only in Prague - the whole of Europe and the European metropolis deal with the problem of using apartments and accommodation units for providing short-term accommodation services. We would like to address this problem on the basis of many complaints from citizens and property owners in the city, but unfortunately we do not have the legal powers. We therefore submit a draft law which we do not propose a nationwide regulation of short-term accommodation services by means of Airbnb platforms, but we only propose a brief amendment to the trade law, which in other cases gives municipalities the authority to regulate in their territory the business under the trade law. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, the 1991 Act, a trade law that has been in force here for 30 years, allows municipalities to regulate business in the form of a market order. So we're just proposing to supplement the authority for municipalities so that they can regulate the type of business, i.e. providing short-term accommodation services. Short-term accommodation services are defined on the basis of the trade law and, on the one hand, according to the Government's regulation, so it is the provision of accommodation in accommodation facilities, apartments, housing houses, family houses, and we only propose, only and only as I pointed out, that we like Prague - but we know that the problem concerns other large cities or attractive towns of the type Český Krumlov - the power to address this by local regulation. I believe that this principle is correct, because regulation should not be excessive, but where it is needed, it should be individual, targeted on the territory. We draw attention to this, and the experts point out that the so-called shared economy that is taking place in the apartments has already gone far beyond the shared economy and is changing sneaking around the world, and that is why apartments are changing to hotels or guesthouses without the buildings being housed as accommodation facilities. There are many negative consequences if the cities aren't dealing with it. One of the most serious negative consequences is that, firstly, the availability of housing for citizens is reduced. Data is proven, we have very extensive data such as the Institute of Planning and Development of the Capital City of Prague, that, if this short-term accommodation is not running in the apartments, rent prices are falling, but when apartments serve as hostels in the city centers, then much larger payments can be collected, these apartments are being removed from their housing function, they simply disappear in the center and the pressure on housing prices is increasing, knowing that housing crisis, emergency, inaccessibility of housing for citizens is one of the biggest problems that the family currently solves. The second aspect, which is very negative and which is complained about by associations of tourism entrepreneurs, such as the Association of Hotels and Restaurants or the Association of Tourism, draws attention to unequal conditions or unfair competition in relation to the hotel industry. It is because the hotel industry, hotels, and guesthouses must meet demanding conditions - they also fulfill them. These conditions are laid down by laws, decrees, these conditions are of course burdensome to them and are enforced, but it is absurd that next to them is a segment of the market, which is also a business, also de facto by providing hotel services, and yet there are entrepreneurs who do not have to and do not meet these conditions because the legislation...... I have to take water, I apologize... because the legislation does not apply to them. [[The voice is failing.]] It's actually a certain gray area, or a neglected area, which has actually been filled everywhere in the world, these gaps. When you look at the world metropolises, they have legislation everywhere either national or, above all, give authority to municipalities to deal with it. All advanced world metropolises do so, both in Europe and in the United States of America. Only the Czech Republic is here somewhere I would say a liberal island that thinks it doesn't have to deal with it at all. So that is why we are presenting this because we really have a comparative analysis that the Czech Republic has completely overslept, and that we are actually only interested in getting to the level of world metropolises. The other negative consequences of this are security risks. People who live in homes where these apartments are provided through the Airbnb platform, for example, do not feel safe. Thousands of people are completely anonymous in houses, so this is happening at the expense of the residents in the house and the owners of the apartments. We receive complaints not only from tenants, this is mainly about homeowners who bought apartments in the center to live in them, and they cannot live there. That is why we say this principle, anchoring this regulation also helps to protect the ownership of others, because, as they say, one's freedom ends where the other's freedom begins. And last but not least, I want to mention the negative result. If we do not deal with this, what we see in some metropolises will happen: the demise of the centre, the demise of the residential zones, the disappearance of services, the local population, and this process, if it occurs, is irreversible. So far, it hasn't exactly happened in Prague, but we assume that with the end of the pandemic, tourists will return in full strength, and that is why, as Prague, we have put forward a proposal - and I want to say that this proposal is not the first time that helps solve it. In fact, I came here to ask for your help, Parliament, to help Prague deal with this. Believe me, the residents don't care much about whose authority it is. They want us to solve the problem, so if you give us a chance to deal with it, a legal mandate, we'll deal with it. Otherwise on this issue: the proposal was processed with the participation of government legislation, namely the expert of the Government Legislative Council on Administrative Law, in cooperation with the legislation of the Ministry of Regional Development. The original proposal was submitted by the previous electoral period of the capital city of Prague or in the previous. After we came to the town hall after the municipal elections in 2018, we just had the proposal redesigned with the help of government legislation so that there would be no reservations, and with the cooperation of the Ministry of Regional Development. The proposal was submitted two years ago in the House and it was already coming up for discussion, unfortunately, the House was overwhelmed by other problems, so the proposal did not come up. The proposal was voted unanimously by the representativeship of the capital city of Prague across the political spectrum, i.e. representatives of all the political parties that are here in the House either in coalition or in opposition, so it has complete support and the people are waiting for Prague to finally start dealing with it. For this reason, I am empowered by the D.A. to re-submit the proposal. That is why, as voted by the council, we sent him again immediately after the election. I would like the proposal to go through the first reading, and if there are doubts - there is, for example, the need for notification at the European Commission, but we are aware of this - and the debate on the degree of limitation that could be set, this could be precisely the subject of second reading in committees. So, please, if you would support the proposal at first reading so that we can really start solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u5	I also thank the councilwoman of the capital city of Prague, Mrs Hana Kordová Marvanová, for the introduction of this House press, and now the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, will take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, dear councilwoman. It must be said at the beginning that the discussions on Airbnb regulations really linked us to the past period and I think that we all regard the issue of short-term leases as important, regardless of political affiliation. We also perceive the reactions of other residents in the house and we know that in some Prague houses the behaviour of some tourists, but certainly not all, caused a problem and undisturbed performance of the owners of the rights of others. Indeed, the government also says in its programming statement that it will present its own bill that will address it, and I consider this to be very important and crucial in addressing the individual problems and risks that this proposal brings in order to be a genuine government bill that is going through a classic commentary procedure, which should resolve the issues that are at issue around this proposal in particular. I believe that the government itself can propose really functional instruments to lay down rules, because it is about laying down rules, the possibility of calling on those neighbours, and in particular questions about how to enforce these rules. This includes, in particular, functional identification, especially functional identification, because if we want to set some conditions, we really need tools to get most of the rented flats from the grey economy into legal state so that we can regulate them in some way. I will just stress what the capital of Prague actually proposes: (a) It proposes that the cities can determine by regulation the period in which the provision of accommodation services in residential houses, family houses or constructions for family recreation is prohibited, and (b) the conditions under which the provision of accommodation services in residential houses, family houses or buildings for family recreation is possible, namely the maximum number of persons accommodated at the same time or the maximum number of overnight stays in one calendar year in one housing unit, family house or family recreation building. The petitioner mentioned here that the proposal is identical to what they have already submitted in the past period. I would like to stress that the proposal is identical to the amendment tabled in the previous period by Patrik Nacher, who, after a very extensive debate on 18 December 2019, won 31 of the 175 Members present at the time. From my point of view, the petitioners did not deal with the comments that were made at the time in the discussion, and I would like to sum them up to three basic points: the first fundamental point is the doubts about constitutionality arising from the issue of proportionality and the degree of such regulation of personal ownership, the second basic point is the doubts about enforcement and the third point about impacts, or whether such a basis will actually fall on troubled owners when the state can hardly identify them and most of these leases are in the grey zone. So we voted in the last House exactly the same proposal, which was tabled as an amendment to another amendment to the trade law, and then the Chamber of Deputies rejected it. Subsequently, the capital of Prague sent us a new proposal in the last parliamentary term, which is actually identical in substance, which was not to be negotiated at the time - this was said by the councilwoman - nevertheless, the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute was drawn on it, where I would like to quote its conclusion: "The proposed regulation in its present form raises doubts about compatibility with EU law as well as with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic." On both proposals, i.e. the previous press, in the previous period 946, which we are discussing today, it is indeed the same proposal, the government has Andrej up Babiš opinion which I believe was ultimately neutral for some political reasons, but in its written reasoning the government itself expressed doubts about constitutional comfort and Article 26 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, actually because such regulation was not imposed. It drew attention to the problem of the grey economy addressed by the proposal and drew attention to the issue of proportionality and possible contradictions with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. I am very sorry as rapporteur that the petitioners unfortunately did not reflect these serious comments, nor did the comments that came from individual ministries such as the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, we cannot only look at this proposal by the optics of the capital, but by the view of all localities in the Czech Republic, because the capital of Prague suggests that we give all municipalities in the Czech Republic the power to ban the provision of accommodation services at any time by regulation in residential houses, family houses or constructions for family recreation, or the maximum number of overnight stays in one calendar year in one housing unit, family house or construction for family recreation, or the number of persons who may be there. This law would not only apply in the territory of the capital city of Prague, but throughout the Republic. Now let's all imagine for a moment, let's leave the idea of Prague's Airbnb Apartment House, and imagine some village in the mountains in the Giant Mountains, in Šumava, where there are several chats, guesthouse and hotel, and there would also be such authority. And since I believe that there is a competitive struggle in all sectors, imagine that the owner of such a hotel will agree with the mayor and the municipality will ban accommodation in the guesthouse, private huts and so on in full season. Or maybe the old-timers will insist that, at some point in time, the visitors are making a mess for them, and they'll want the village to ban it. I do not want to make up for the problems of neighbors in some apartment building in Prague, but I must draw attention to the possible full consequences of the adoption of this law. I really have doubts about the adequacy of such powers, how much it is to intervene in property rights, so that someone can ban this, because this is the risk that this proposal brings. And we should really weigh on the pharmacies' scales how we allow public authorities to enter private relations and private ownership. In such a case, the appellants seem to have confidence that everyone in all circumstances, all councillors in all municipalities and all representatives elected in the future, will always be very prudent in the enforcement of this regulation. But it is a question of whether anyone will have any barriers to entering private ownership, and any new authority is exploitable. This does not call into question the need to lay down effective conditions which will actually address the situation, when the owner will actually be responsible for his ownership and will call on the neighbors in the individual housing houses so that they can exercise their rights. But such conditions must comply with the Constitution and other major regulations and must be enforceable. I fear that the same proposal, which does not reflect the public debate and reflects the debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, cannot lead to a clear agreement and a meaningful solution. I really believe that it must be presented, this regulation, the Government of the Czech Republic in accordance with its programming statement, and it must do so after a commentary procedure. I just want to point out to the petitioner who said that we are very liberal and that nothing is going on at all, so I just want to remind her that we have adopted several regulations in the past period, such as the need to report this matter to the trade authorities, the fee obligation and so on. At least three times in different regulations we have dealt with this matter. And by that, ladies and gentlemen, I might have ended up with a slightly longer news report, but I felt it necessary for you to know the history of these press discussions in this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, for bringing the news report to this House press. At this point, I am opening up a general debate and I note that with priority right, the President of the Czech Pirate Party's Czech Pirate Party, Jakub Michálek, is registered, so at the moment, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u8	Madam Vice-President, Councilwoman, honourable colleagues, I would first like to thank the representatives of the capital city of Prague, namely Dr Marvanová, Dr Hřiba and Mr Nacher, here before us, for addressing this important issue. As a Prague Member, I have been addressing this issue since 2016, when I submitted the first proposal for regulation by Airbnb to Mayor Krnáčová at the time, and since then we have not been able - and we need to say this openly - to resolve this issue. Only partial changes in 2019 were made with regard to the community of owners of units and the obligation to notify in advance the members' community administrator that the apartment will be used for shared accommodation and the change in the default settlement settings. However, I think it is important to recall that we have already tried to grasp this issue once, in Law No. 189/2020 Sb., which, with our support, was approved during the emergency period and in which we approved that the accommodation platforms must report to the relevant trade authorities who use their services, who do business on them, so that the trade authorities obtain the data necessary to exercise their authority. Unfortunately, we have to say that even as part of the assessment of the effectiveness of this regulation, it turns out that not one of the challenges has been answered to this day, or the system, as we set it up here at the time, when it was done actually very quickly in the time of emergency, has not worked. It is necessary to adapt and improve it so that it works in practice. That is why I think it is desirable to address these issues in the ordinary legislative process, because it is necessary for this to actually work - to take European law into account, it is necessary to take account of the need for authorisation to be properly defined in accordance with the Constitution and, in particular, that enforcement is not bound solely by Law No 1 of the European Parliament. 189/2020 Coll., but so that we can ensure that the laws of the Czech Republic will also be enforceable against the platforms that they do in the Czech Republic. The current legislation does not regulate this in any way, it is ineffective, and anything else we approve beyond the current regulation, we will empower municipalities, so municipalities will not have real options to enforce this regulation unless the laws are brought to an end and will not apply to such platforms as Airbnb. We have finally committed ourselves in the government's programming statement - in fact, it is the first programming statement that deals with this area and indicates a clear way to proceed in this area - to separate the rental of rooms that are occasional, from the fact that someone rents their premises basically as hotel rooms or hotel apartments, so that clear and fair rules are set for everyone, and not that hotels will be in regulation mode and someone else will not have to follow any rules, that is not yet set, and of course first place it is necessary to protect the right of citizens of the Czech Republic to live in, into which this business activity can interfere in various ways. So the rules for business really need to be set. I think that's the thing we agree on, but it hasn't been modified to this day. In this context, I would like to say that I, too, fully support the idea - and I also voted in favour of this in the last parliamentary term - so that the authorities have the authority to regulate this issue within their territory within the limits that are defined and which must be determined under the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The important thing is that the government has committed itself because of the quality of legislation that these laws will be passed through the standard channels of the Government's Legislative Council, an assessment of the impact of regulation and all these other instruments, unless all members of the coalition agree that a deviant approach will be chosen. Although I would encourage this to be discussed here, there is no consensus at this point, and it is therefore essential that the law undergoes a proper legislative process. We must, of course, respect the coalition agreement in this regard. I would like to say that indeed 80 percent of the rooms or apartments offered through platforms such as Airbnb, for shared accommodation, are rooms which are exclusively intended for the provision of accommodation services. It is not the shared form in which housing and use are combined, for example, during vacation time or when someone leaves for the garden over the holidays, it provides. Indeed, the shared form accounts for only 20 percent, so this very much justifies why this issue needs to be addressed. I would also like to say here for colleagues in the government who are working on this issue, that our aim will be to prepare this amendment at the maximum possible speed and with the involvement of self-government and other stakeholders so that it is presented really priority this year, ideally after the holidays, so that it will actually be effective in practice, because now we can no longer afford to pass another law that will not work in practice and it will just be a trick for people to pretend that we are working on something. The law must work effectively, it must be enforceable against those platforms, and it is not there today. I dealt with it several times at the Ministry of Finance, and then at the Ministry of Finance, when we dealt with the relevant Deputys, I was told that we were unable to enforce those laws against digital platforms. I find it unacceptable to be defeated. I understand that this is difficult, that this is a major challenge and a big task, but we cannot do this without the laws in the finals being enforceable against digital platforms. And that's what we have to do at government level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u9	I also thank the President of the Czech Pirate Party. Now it's quiet here at the moment, but when the President spoke here, there was a noise again in the hall. I'm begging you again, if there's anything you need to do, go to the lobby. I think that you, too, who will go to the speaker's desk, will also want no one to disturb you in your speech. We are now in the general debate. I have here at the moment for the general debate of Mr Patrik Nacher, so I will ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u10	Madam President, the members of the government - the members of the government are not here, they are, oh, and the most important one, because that is what I wanted to focus on - ladies and gentlemen, well, first of all, the context of what we are talking about here. Let me just remind you that this is not my proposal or the YES movement, it is the proposal of the Prague City Representative, where he is the Mayor of the politician for the Pirate Party. Just so we understand each other, that means that your top official before you joined the government is the guarantor of the proposal for the capital city of Prague. I'm glad you supported this, that we can deal with this place at all, and then a colleague of Michálek, who has been with me for four years, will actually say that it has to be done all over again. I really don't understand this right now. I was actually just here as a postman, I'm here... that's not my proposal, that's the proposal of the representative of the capital city of Prague under the leadership of the pirate mayor and coalition, as I said here, STAN, KDU, TOP 09, Pirates. Fairly I must say that the ODS is in opposition there, so I have to say this fairly, as we do, but I will remind you that this has supported the entire council. I was here again making sure of my colleague Kordová Marvanová - the entire Prague council. This means, for a colleague of Vojtěch Munzar, members of the ODS. [[12.40 hours]] But I guess we have different opinions about it. I see Marek Novák logged in from us, who told me he didn't agree with it either. I guess that's how it's gonna be, but it's got to be straight up here. Vojtěch Munzar said that the proposal was identical, and at the same time - I was taking notes - Jakub Michálek said that a proper legislative process was needed. Well, my colleagues, it's not the same, because the other day, when I put it here, you scolded me that it's an attachment to changing the trade law, to those guides. And now it's not a sticker, now it's just a separate thing, so it's not really the same thing. It's not a sticker, and it's the proper legislative process that Jakub Michálek is calling for. That's right. There's a proposal. The government has discussed it. After all, as Hana Kordová said, Marvanová - I hope she can come back to this and say the details - so they did legislation at the ministries. Perhaps the current Minister for Regional Development or former Minister Klára Dostálová will comment on this. Now that it's political, I'd say interest, speaking of context. Well, theoretically -- and I'm really open here, you guys know me -- so we could have problems in the city center that are connected to that Airbnb, which are now smaller because of the covid, but it's back to normal again, so I'm telling my colleagues from the ODS, it might not matter to us, because they're now in the fall of the election, so the harder the better, purely theoretically. That's the political interest, that's the context. But I really don't care, because we promise people around here and we do it all the time. Now there's the second version, now Jakub Michálek said they'd make the third version. Then tell the people in the city center, as well as the authorisation that it is authorisation for the municipalities. There, too, political interest on my part would be the opposite, because the mayor is the pirát, and I'm actually going to vote in favour of the board under the leadership of the pirate mayor. But I'm gonna do it, 'cause I'm gonna fall for it at this point. If there was an ODS mayor or, say, Adriana Krnáčová for YES, I would have done the same thing, because I think it's something that needs to be dealt with. Secondly, the principle of subsidiarity - we talked about it here last time. For the new MPs, we always come here with something from Prague and we bother the rest of it. Yeah, but we're here, colleagues, and Hanka Kordová. Marvanová said exactly - we are asking you to be authorised not to have to deal with this right now in order to resolve it in Prague, and I said so in the reasoning. Yes, it will probably be about Prague, Karlovy Vary, Český Krumlov. It is possible that someone - and I remember the reactions - was Leo Luzar of KSČM, who said that they could abuse some smaller villages or villages in the mountains - there I am looking at a colleague who also reminded me. Let's talk about it, so let's put it on second reading. The principle of subsidiarity is to deal with the city, the community where this is happening, because otherwise we'll always come to you here with something. So let's vote here and it will be. The third context is why we're here. First of all, we had the council yesterday, I took the liberty of leaving at 2:30 in the morning, they ended up, the rest, at 4:00 in the morning, and we were just talking about it. That's where we talked about it with the mayor that I'm going to present it here as soon as possible, and the reason is clear. Now, because of the pandemic, because of the covid, the pressure and the number of tourists in the center is infinitely smaller. This means that we can do it less painfully when I say it that way than if we were doing it in full season, when the city centre is really full of tourists who are staying within Airbnb in the city centre, and in the city centre in some moments some streets are literally paralyzed, believe me. I might as well give one of you a tour and you'll see. That means this is really the time, so let's use it. We supported the opposition as well as the cultivation of the city centre against visual smog, at this very moment, when else? Because there aren't so many tourists here, and there can be changes that are probably hard to make in normal course. That means the time is important in this. Now, what's going on here, and that's the reaction to Vojtěch Munzar. Here he comes at each other - and we had a dispute about it last time, consistently, I don't take it personally, then I invite him to lemonade - two rights, the right to own and dispose of the property and the right to own and use it. Use it, that means, yes, I have an apartment and I can rent it to whom I want, in simple terms. I agree with that until it comes to the right of someone who wants to use it and doesn't want him to lose value. Go to some houses where there are two three old-timers and the rest is rented through various applications, how it works there: increasing the cost of services, security, broken doors, elevator broken, messy and so on and so on. In an ideal world - in an ideal world! - there's an agreement between those who have an apartment and rent it and have the apartment and live there. And I'll just say that there's a house here, maybe there's more of it, it's Bílkova 13 - I said it also at the council - where this agreement took place, so it's a microideal world where they agreed, they signed a memorandum that will visibly mark different street bells at their apartments, so that it'll be known who has it in the rental and who lives there, on the entrance door from the apartments will place the apartments in the rental, including the identification number under which they are rented, the telephone, e-mail contact, on the facade of the house will be given a table with the owner's data in consultation with SVJ on the appropriate location. In the space by the stairs, the landlords will set up a bulletin board with an overview of rented premises with all contacts, house rules in Czech and English language. Look out! SVJ will provide an additional garbage dumpster, which means extra, because all of this, of course, attracts these other services. The apartments will be placed in a visible place fire extinguisher with a valid inspection test and fire alarm directive in Czech and English. This suggests that this is not the apartment where they live, but it is basically a space that, you might say, is a hotel room where these people take turns, where there is a greater risk of security - what Hana Kordová Marvanová was talking about. Special insurance contracts shall be concluded in such a way that the conditions correspond to the purpose of using the apartment. They'll install fire alarms, detectors in their apartments. And now, this is such an interesting thing: they install noise meters in their apartments and ensure that when crossing 75 decibels between one hour in the morning and six hours there is contacting the landlord with notice of disturbance of night tranquillity. Here in this memorandum - I'm not going to read it all so I don't delay - there are actually answers to everything we're looking for, but that's the ideal world, it's just Bílkův's 13, Bílek's 15, I see it's two houses next to each other. But it's not the rest of it. In the rest, it really isn't, believe me, and it bumps into both of those rights, it means owning and loading and owning and enjoying and sleeping and going to work in the morning and so on and so forth. Of course, at the beginning of the idea of shared accommodation was not commercial, it was on a completely different principle, we don't need to remember that here. It then turned into a business where, of course, someone is doing it officially today, which is not what I'm saying, but someone's doing it black and he's hurting those who do it officially, but it hurts those who live there, want to live there, and they don't want to get a hotel out of the house. [[12.50 hours]] If you look at what of the shared accommodation in Prague, yes, what are the problems that arise? And we're talking about how we're gonna make this right over and over again. Vojtěch Munzar sums it up here. So, what's the third year, the fourth year we've been talking about this? Yes, it was supported by 31 Members back then. So what do I do? At least here you can see that I'm designing this place consistently. If I'm a coalition MP or a opposition, it doesn't matter, I'm not doing any theater here. But perhaps I will have more of those Members at the moment, because, as I say, I repeat, there are elections in the autumn and it is a great responsibility for Prague's current leadership to stand up for it, in some way it has explained to its Members, although I respect that there is no problem outside of Prague - and that we have recycled that if you do not give us the authority, it will return to us here as a boomerang. What are the problems? Reduction of housing availability for citizens. It was beautiful to see that when the covid ended, so suddenly thousands of flats in the city center became vacant and the rent fell, the rent level. [[Started?]] When it comes back, it obviously has these other negative externalities - high cost of living, rent and so on and so on. That means it's completely obvious. Impacts on the municipal and state treasury. At the municipal register - the councilman who is in charge of the city, how they cope with the selection of local fees and how this affects the city's treasury - could probably say that. But now that we're on the right-hand side, I'm heading for Vojtěch Munzar, he's going to have a second lemonade that's uneven conditions, I'd almost say in some moments an unfair competition with hotel services, which has to meet a whole range of conditions, hygienic - I read you here the memorandum, right? - everything he should have, a fire extinguisher and all that. So look what everything you have to do hotel, guesthouse, how many different regulations, but in this case the short-term landlord doesn't have to do it, and here comes a great competitive advantage. So I would ask Vojtěch Munzar, through Madam President, if at least in this he does not see the right-wing view of how to explain this to hotel owners, the guesthouses, which are increasing costs because they have to fulfil a number of things and a number of responsibilities, a whole series of regulations, they can therefore receive various fines if they fail to do so. It's all getting expensive. Of course, this changes the nature of residential zones in the capital centre, and I don't think there's any need to debate that. Really, if you don't believe me, colleagues, especially outside Prague - Prague probably believe, I suppose, I'm looking at Marek Benda here - the extra-Prague ones, I'd be happy to show you here that it really changes the city's nature. As much as there's a break for when we can deal with it, the situation is better now - it's not ideal, but it's better. It's definitely better than when there was this boom where there really were streets where basically there wasn't anybody living anymore, original as a resident, but it was all rented apartments. And, of course, the last - even if it's the last - is a security risk from the point of view of committing crime, not registering those names. Now that we're talking about the covide, it's probably in the Omicron, I think, one thing, but before that, when it was being routed, it's completely impossible from this point of view. You at the hotel know who's ever accommodated, when he did check-in, check-out and all that. In this case, you're completely out of the system, which means that security risk - and now I'm not going to say that we're a safe country in terms of terrorism, but maybe a health risk. So these are all risks. I'm not defending myself from the adjustments, and I understand what my colleagues here are saying, even from my own club. But let's just, please, let's just let it go one day and show the citizens that we want to deal with this in some way. I confess, I'm right-wing, I don't want to interfere with ownership, but I don't feel fair to those who have the apartment and use it. Again, I say, the proposal empowers municipalities to issue a regulation so that, if they consider it necessary, they can limit short-term accommodation to a certain period of time, although it has been said here that many cities have it. And there are extremes where it is limited very much - I wouldn't encourage it, I say this in advance to limit it to 30 days, it seems to me overburned, but there are such countries west of our borders. Just so we know here, the point is not to limit the entire supply of the service, but to target it. If there, colleagues, you'll think of some things to avoid the risks that we're talking about, that the mayors of some smaller communities will take advantage of it, or advice, so let's bring it on. I don't have a problem with that. But I'm just gonna ask you: let's finish it once, finish it, improve it, don't put it back, because it's gonna be the same or similar officials who participated in this standard anyway. This is a typical thing that's obviously extra-partisan for me, so let's do the same. We do it for people. Let's not overheat the regulation, I'm sure I won't support it, but let's not throw it in the trash again, because when the tourists come back here, I'm not gonna explain it to them downtown. Thank you for your attention. For everyone who feels - as you can see, so I looked at you, I didn't read anything - I just had some notes here, then I read something from the memorandum. Whoever wants to send that memorandum as a best practice, how it can work somewhere, I'll be happy to send it to him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech raised two factual points, so I will ask Mr Vojtěch Munzar to prepare Robert králíček. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u12	Thank you. I think that colleague Nacher, through you, was wrong about one. He argued with me like I didn't say right at the beginning that we all realized the need for regulation. I did not compromise the need for some regulation of shared accommodation so that other people in the house could have an undisturbed exercise of property rights. I specifically discussed this proposal, which is presented repeatedly by the City of Prague's representativeship, for the first time through my colleague Nacher, through you. I have two comments on what he said here. He said the proposal wasn't identical because it was filed in a different way. However, it is the same thing in a matter of fact. And I'm sorry that the discussion that you didn't use those two years to adjust according to the discussion that was going on here was going on, this proposal, I'm looking at the councilwoman, because we could have been a little further. The second thing I have said here is that I believe that the government will present its own proposal to deal with this as soon as possible according to its programming statement, which I voted for, but which will go through the classic commentary procedure, so that the doubts can actually be removed, so that there can actually be some meaningful and effective correction. So I'm arguing, and my opening word has argued with a specific solution, with a specific proposal as presented. I've quoted here that the doubts are not my personal, but they are doubts from different sources. I have quoted here the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute and the written justification for the position of the former Government. I needed to respond to those things, so we don't really... [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time.]] ...we all see that some adjustment is needed. We differ in view of this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u13	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Robert králíček is registered. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u14	Good afternoon. I originally wanted to respond to Mr Michálek, but I would also like to respond to Mr Munzar. I don't think we should redo this law again. I think Mr. Michálek was wrong when he said so. I think we've had enough time, and it was a match in the last term. I remember, I'm counting on Mr Čižinský to have a single consensus on this law, and I think, and Patrik Nacher mentioned it when we look abroad, and I have the analysis prepared then in the debate, because we can inspire ourselves, and that's clear there. This is where I come across my colleague Munzar, where from abroad, all of these things are regulated by the city itself. The state then intervenes there in the second round, but the basic regulation, certain restrictions, is with the largest cities or the world capitals. Then why should we invent a bike when it's already invented on one side? And abroad, the biggest metropolis shows it clearly. They regulate it themselves, and it's individual. Here I agree, yes, it doesn't worry the whole Czech Republic yet, but we have an analysis by the Ministry of Regional Development that it will soon start to worry about Brno, and other cities can worry if tourism returns, Český Krumlov and so on and so on. And the cities, and the coalition mayor, Mr. Adamec, says so, the cities want to regulate it themselves. She knows best - I agree with him here - those cities know best how to regulate it. Well, let's let the Prague do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u15	Thank you, too. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I have now signed up with another factual remark by Mrs Jana Hanzlíková, then the petitioner reports and with priority rights the President of the club of the STAN movement also reported. So I am summing up only the current entries in the debate and giving the floor to Mrs Hanzlíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u16	I thank you for the floor, Madam President, my fellow Members. It won't give me a chance not to get out and bring you the look of an ex-employer for housing and social inclusion of the Ministry of Regional Development, because I want to confirm what Patrik said, that really the officials including me have worked with the councilwoman on this proposal, so I assume that the same officials would actually make the adjustments that the previous speakers have been talking about, but I would like to bring you the view that I had a huge stack of letters on my desk from people who live in such houses for a long time. I, of course, was of the opinion that long-term housing must be of good quality and those people can't live there with the problems Patrik was talking about, so I won't repeat it. But I just want you to realize what kind of people that live there are. My family came to me with young children or schoolchildren - the parents were unhappy that the children didn't even get a good night's sleep. And these are the problems of the people who live in those apartments. So I'm only briefly, but I just wanted you to realize these problems that have something to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u17	Thank you, too. With a point of fact, President Cogan has yet to comment - but the factual ones have priority... [[Member of the O.R.: Downloading.]] Excuse me? You're pulling her out. The next one registered with the factual remark is Mrs Válková, so please... Was it some kind of mistake? So I'm erasing it, so it's settled, and I've already got another de facto Mr. Cogan. Please, Mr. Chairman, your verdict for two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u18	So I see here that the discussion of factual remarks is quite evolving, and I think we have a law here that can be discussed a little bit later, we see that it's still a little bit out there. So, on behalf of five clubs, I would like to propose a suspension of this point because we have the following point in Parliament's elections. I think voting rights are one of the most important political rights a citizen has. We are all a little bit weeping over the fact that there is little voter participation in many elections, and the law that we have here is a way to better involve our citizens, to make it more accessible to them, to increase the voter participation, which is definitely an interest for all of us, so I will now allow myself to interrupt this item of negotiations until the next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u19	Okay, that means until the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will be in February. While the President has the right to vote, this is a proposal that is voted without debate, that is, I have to put the vote first, and then I can only give you the floor, even if you have the right to vote. I will call the Members of Parliament who have been in the foyer. I'll check you all out, too, please sign up with your I.D. cards. I will repeat the proposal that has been made here. This is a procedural proposal for the suspension of the present item, i.e. trade law, namely until the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It seems that the number of MEPs is not yet full, yet more are coming, but the number is now coming to a halt. I am opening the vote on the procedural motion to interrupt the item in the next meeting and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 107 136 Members and Members were enrolled for 77 of them. The proposal was adopted and we have therefore interrupted the item. Are you still interested in priority rights, Madam President? So, Prime Minister Schillerová, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Honestly, I'm gonna say, I don't understand. This item was placed at the House's meeting, it was voted on by his appointment, Councilwoman Marvanová came all the way here. I thought this was a very important point, and I wanted to come forward too. It concerns the citizens of Prague, Brno. I think we've been dealing with this for a long time, and the Chairman of the Pirates Club will remember that we've been dealing with the law together here, the Local Charges Act, where it was one of the roads to at least identify the people who rent Airbnb apartments. Then we dealt with the issue of trade law, we reached something that was unsolvable - that we actually confirmed at the time as unsolvable, that they had to register under the trade law. There was a big debate about it. We didn't do it, MPO. Now there's a way, I can see it's support, and suddenly I hear it's supposed to be interrupted. Why, then, was there a vote on the inclusion of our Member's proposal? The councilwoman has arrived. Why don't you let the debate run out here? There's four logged in. Let the debate at least end, the debate will end in some way, and then this could be voted on. I just don't understand. Why is this law not important to you? Why is it not important to the citizens of this country? Excuse me, I understand it as a sort of weird thing on your part - I don't want to use the word obstruction - but just a strange practice that I don't understand, and I'm asking for a break at the ANO club meeting within 14 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u21	There was therefore a request from the club of the ANO movement for a period of 52 minutes to 14 hours. However, I must point out that then we should actually meet here, even though it is customary to end at 14 o'clock, because we do not have excluded points from today's meeting, which ends here on this day, so we still need to take a vote. Given this break, I'm going to ask you to come back to the hall at 2:00 p.m. again. [[The noise in the hall.]] Do you still want to... Mr. Chairman on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u22	Madam President, on the basis of the agreement of all club presidents, I ask that we vote now on this exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-004-036.u23	Okay, thank you. I am glad that such rapid coordination has taken place in this regard. Therefore, I must propose that the remaining, i.e. unnegotiated items be removed from the approved agenda of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm opening the vote on the elimination of all these points, and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 138 Members and 121 of them were in favour of voting 108, which is why we have eliminated all the remaining points of this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus exhausted the approved programme of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm finishing this meeting and reminding you that next week at 10 p.m., we're opening an emergency meeting, so I'm saying goodbye to you for today, I wish you a nice rest of the day and weekend.
