ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will check you all out first and ask you to re-enter your identification cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence from today's meeting: Babiš Andrej for the whole working day, Babišová Andrea for the whole day for health reasons, Bačíková Jana for the whole day for work reasons, Bělica Josef for the whole day for working reasons, Brázdil Milan for the whole day for working reasons, Carbol Jiří for the whole day for working reasons, Dostálová [[A round of applause for five-police MPs.]] Klára the whole day - working grounds, Dražilová Lenka for the whole day of the hearing for working Vondrák, Fischerová Romana for the whole day for health reasons, Flek Josef the whole day for medical reasons, Fridrich Stanislav for the whole day for medical reasons, Golasowská Pavla for the whole David for working reasons, Hájek Jiří from 16 hours to 23.45 for working reasons, Hendrych Igor the whole day for medical Skopeček, Hofmann Jan the whole day for working Ivo, Kobza slavík the whole day for Svoboda Pavel, Kohajda Michael from 15.30 for working reasons, Kohoutek Tomáš from the whole day for foreign travel, Král Václav the whole Schillerová for working reasons, Kučera Michal the whole day - working reasons, Levko Jarmila from the whole Pastuchová Jana for the whole day - working reasons for the whole žáček - working reasons, Lochman Ondřej from the whole day for foreign travel, Major Martin for the whole day for working reasons, Nováková Nina, from 14 to the Wenzl working reasons of the Milan day of the whole working reasons, štolpa Stová, from the Potůčková Lucie, from the whole working day, from the whole day of the whole of the Pavel of the whole of the working day, from the working day of the whole of the Pivoňka day of the Vaňková of the whole of the whole of the Pavla day of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the From the members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr from the whole day for health reasons, Bek Mikuláš the whole day for work reasons, Kupka Martin the whole day for foreign travel reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 16.45 for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from 16 hours for working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day for foreign travel, Rakušan Vít from the whole day for working reasons and Vlastimil Válek from the whole day for working reasons. [[A round of applause from ANO and SPD.]] Madam Members, I would now like to inform you of the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. Firstly, we propose to exclude paragraphs 12 and 121 of the 35th meeting, House Press 96, Government Bill on Public Health Protection at second and third readings. Secondly, we propose to include a new item in the 35th meeting, a draft timetable for the state budget for 2023, House document 1265. Thirdly, we propose the following procedure in this week - today discuss the items in order: paragraph 10, House press 31, authorial law, second reading; paragraph 95, House press 270, promotion of sport, first reading; paragraph 6, House press 216, terms of operation of vehicles on roads, second reading; paragraph 15, House press 175, on international judicial cooperation, second reading; paragraph 22, House press 256, penalty law, second reading; point 17, House printing 199, use of flats, second reading; point 8, House printing 160, low emission vehicles, second reading. Please note that the discussion of paragraph 10, i.e. the House press 31, will begin at 16 o'clock at the earliest. And then we'll continue with the points on the approved agenda. Friday 30. 9. Grémium proposes to discuss points in order: paragraph 110, House press 215, state service, third reading; paragraph 116, House press 174, about significant market power, third reading; paragraph 127, House press 203, about international cooperation in tax administration, third reading; Point 159, House Print 212, State Final Account 2021; a new point: a draft timetable for the national budget for 2023, i.e. House document 1265; paragraph 113, House press 150, entry and import of cultural goods into the customs territory of the EU, third reading; paragraph 118, House press 213, on consumer protection, third reading. Finally, I remind you that on Thursday, September 29th, at 9:00 p.m., the 40th meeting will begin, and that is why today the 35th meeting will be suspended until Friday, September 30th, at 9:00 p.m. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. And now I have several applications for the agenda. First, President Marek Benda, with priority rights, but I do not see him present, therefore President Okamura, who is on the agenda for a priority right meeting. And you, colleagues, please, let us keep our voice down and allow the President to speak, please. I'm begging you to keep your voice down one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, as the first extraordinary point at the House of Deputies meeting, a point on the ceiling of energy prices by the Government of Petr Fiala, as the arrogant government of Petr Fiala again seems to have cheated citizens the day after the elections, because the Minister of Industry of Síkela for the STAN movement said that the government's ceiling of electricity and gas prices would not apply to the entire consumption of these energies for citizens and companies and their households. And I think it's necessary for the government to make it clear whether they're gonna be put down... [[There's noise in the room.]] Can I ask you for more peace?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u3	I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep their conversations quiet and move them into the lobby. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u4	I would like to ask, because it is a whole-scale thing that interests all citizens of the Czech Republic, all households and companies, so that you can clearly state for the government whether energy is actually going to be covered in full, household consumption or not, and how it will be with companies, because on Sunday on Czech television, the Minister of Industry and Trade told Jozef Síkela of the STAN movement that the planned ceiling on electricity and gas prices for households and small and medium-sized companies will not apply to the entire consumption of these energies. According to Minister Síkela for the STAN movement, the upper limits of consumption to which electricity and gas prices will be subject should be set at European Union level. The reason is said to be pressure on citizens to save energy, and perhaps to take the two sweaters, as President Pekarová has repeatedly suggested here. [[14.10 hours]] It is an incredible arrogance and impudence of the current government, which in the House during the law hearing a week ago, i.e. just before the elections, so we have declared here that we will allow the government to stop electricity and gas prices. SPD's been designing this place since spring. Okay, well, you guys were late with that, and you guys put it at a much higher price than it actually is. But now I want to mention that you didn't say a word here - a few days before the election, when we had this law - that this ceiling will only cover part of the consumption. Now Minister Síkela says it will only be part of the consumption. Members and citizens have been deceived by your government, your five-police, Petr Fiala. Obviously, this was a pre-election manipulation because the real state of affairs was told by Minister Síkela, the government of Petr Fiala, the day after the election. It was therefore a false influence on the elections for the benefit of the parties to the coalition. I am not crying here because we have had more than a triple increase in the number of representative mandates, the largest of all parliamentary parties. On the contrary, the government's five-calice has lost the number of representative mandates in the elections that have just ended, so it is not that I am yelling about it, but I am talking about citizens. The SPD is one of the winners of the election, which means it's okay, but I'm talking about citizens, and I'm talking about how citizens are supposed to count on it financially. By making aid to our citizens and companies subject to decisions and conditions of the EU, the government merely confirms its vassalism and submission to foreign interests. The government has done the same before when it refused to put a stop to energy prices for large industrial enterprises, stating that EU legislation does not allow this. Thus, our citizens and entrepreneurs will continue to pay for the energy of one of the highest prices in the European Union after the government's inadequate ceiling, or twice as high as the current situation, because of your government. According to Eurostat's recent material, Czech consumers pay even the highest price of electricity throughout Europe at a price converted into purchasing power. This is clearly rejected by the SPD. So here I propose this extraordinary point. It would be good to do this briefly, briefly - we do not intend to talk about it here, but to say whether the government representative, any minister, will therefore be subject to the whole consumption for citizens, or not for companies, because this deception of citizens, or your incompetence and lavatories, really continues and continues to bring millions of our citizens into huge financial problems. The Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela of the STAN movement on the Václav Moravec Questions programme announced two days ago that the energy price ceiling would apply to one part of the consumption. So the day after the election, all of a sudden, you start saying it's just gonna be part of the consumption. On Monday, based on the great pressure of the opposition - specifically the SPD - they are already saying the opposite when he published on his Twitter account that the energy prices will be paid without any restrictions. That means, first, you lied to citizens before the election to deceive them, that it would be imposed on the entire amount of household consumption. The day after the election at Václav Moravec, your Minister of Industry Síkela, who has it in his mind, will say that this will only apply to part of the consumption. So you tricked the citizens. Based on hard pressure, the opposition is saying the opposite of us on Monday, and it says that the energy prices will be paid without any restrictions. Well, that's some really incredible twists and twists. In particular, he said that "a government regulation on energy prices will not limit household consumption" - he said that on Monday, but he argued otherwise on Sunday - and "we believe that we are able to achieve energy savings in households without introducing a limit on consumption"." This should therefore be clarified by Minister Síkela or by someone in the government, what he means, how he wants to achieve savings and what mechanisms he wants to use towards households and citizens. If it is to be the two sweaters recommended by Chairman TOP 09 and House Pekarová Adamová, or if it is to be some kind of household control, that someone will knock there, neomarxistically - that would fit the pirát, such proposals - and they will check whether anyone is drowning more and more, or if in any other way you want to bully citizens because of your inability to secure cheap energy, even though the proposals are clearly given here, we have presented them here several times, and you do not want to hear it. According to Minister Síkela, for small and medium-sized companies - if I move from households to companies - a proposal will be approved within the EU, which will help companies by introducing a price ceiling on energy, regardless of their business, up to 80 percent of the highest consumption in the last five years. So what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be? He'll be here on October. Millions of people and thousands of companies are already desperate. How, then, are they to plan their own households and businesses financially? Besides - the whole Republic already knows - that your government has been doing nothing here for almost a year, you have been late, you have forgotten, you have wasted your time, and you have taken tens of thousands out of people's pockets unnecessarily, while other European countries have already helped people with expensive energy, food and fuel, so what is it going to be? This means that, according to the Minister's latest statement, which is constantly changing, the price ceiling on electricity and gas will be linked to the upper limit of consumption for businessmen, small and medium-sized companies, up to 80 per cent of the highest consumption in the last five years. So it won't apply to the entire consumption, and the difference of 20 per cent for each company and every businessman and entrepreneur is the crucial one. It's quite a marked difference. Then Minister Síkela - here I have his tweet on Twitter - began again to write that questioning our energy price ceiling is off. Over the next week, i.e. in a fortnight, he says he's going to propose to the government to put a stop to energy prices for the entire consumption of households. At the same time, we want to aim to ensure that ceiling does not lead to an increase in energy consumption, because this would weaken us in the energy war with Russia. So I ask you again, what's it gonna be? On Sunday he says it won't be ceilinged, the whole consumption of households. On Monday, he says he's gonna be ceilinging himself, but at the same time, he says you want to target it so that it doesn't lead to an increase in energy consumption. So there's gonna be some kind of mechanism, and there's probably gonna be another factor depending on what the minister says. So I think I want to ask you again, here members of the government coalition - even though in the election that has just ended, all parties to the government coalition have lost the number of mandates in municipal councils and you have lost the elections, that is quite clear, the decline in your mandates and the residence of the opposition's mandates - so you really should stop being arrogant and agree to this crucial point. Again, I'm not going to talk to him, I'm interested in the answer of some minister, some member of the government. Is it enough to tell the citizens here briefly: will household consumption, household consumption, or will it not be? And will the consumption of small companies, medium-sized companies, or large firms - I would also like to know this division - or will it be an average of 80 percent of the consumption over the last five years? Because now, as you know, companies are in danger of failing, many are already failing. Therefore, not only is this a problem for the companies, but also for the employees who are facing redundancies and unemployment growth. After all, this vital information needs to be clarified immediately, because your government says something different every day. But the worst thing is if you tell yourself this, but you take the hostage of all 10 million citizens of the Czech Republic and their money, which they have earned honestly, and companies. So once again, I propose that as the first extraordinary point to start today - and it may not take long at all, it may be a point per minute, per two, I see here Minister Jurečka, Minister Bartoš, Minister of the Environment. So there's room for you to say what it's going to be like. Let's see. [[14.20 hours]] So I'm going to repeat that point again that-- if that point, that point is called-- whether it was about the Cropping of electricity and gas prices, when Petr Fiala's government once again cheated on citizens the day after the election. So that's how I want to formulate it. As another point, I propose an extraordinary point at this House meeting with the title "Failure of the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan of the STAN and of the European Union on illegal migration to the Czech Republic." The number of illegal immigrants from Muslim countries is still growing in the Czech Republic. As we know, the biggest increase in the arrival of illegal migrants from Muslim countries and Muslim and African countries since 2015, when the Great Migration Crisis was. In my opinion, this is a clear failure. In the opinion of the SPD, this is a clear failure of the European Union and the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan of the STAN movement. I have proposed a point on the subject here and here, both repeatedly and in the past. I pointed out that the number of illegal migrants arriving in our territory has been rising sharply since the summer. It's not about the Ukrajinec, it's about migrants from these I'd say Arab and Middle East and other countries, and you've repeatedly rejected that point for me here, the government coalitions, you've downplayed it, you've taken it lightly, you didn't want to deal with it. I have warned you that he is writing me a huge number of our citizens living in villages in Moravia near the Slovak border. They write, write me, and write me a lot of women, girls, that they're afraid to go home tonight, go for a walk in the woods, because they're just these illegal migrants. Local citizens complain that they leave a mess, I have to use that word because they leave their own personal belongings in the woods, by the road, and so on. And you guys were rejecting that point where I was pointing it out in time, because the SPD, of course, specializes in this issue. So, of course, we're... we're eyes open and we've been watching. And we're just now learning that the government has lately begun to react, with a few months' delay, when the problem is already and is full of migration centres in the Czech Republic. Now the problem is that the Slovák don't want to take those illegal migrants back. That means they're staying with us. We've got nowhere to move them. And now the Minister, the completely incompetent and arrogant Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, who has ignored the remarks here, the SPD's proposals for the government to do this urgently, will now say that police security is supposed to be at the border for ten days. And I want to ask, what is the government's plan? You're gonna shut up and shut up the SPD again, okay, when we're here to ensure the safety of our citizens who are worried? You're gonna hang around here again and pretend there's no such thing as a problem? What's it gonna be in ten days? I ask what will happen in ten days, what is your plan, your government, because it is not easy because the Interior Minister Rakušan is completely out of control, he does not know which beats, because even today, for example, police President Vondrášek said on Radio Frequency 1, that police officers who have now been moved by the Interior Minister Austrian to the border that they will be missing in all 14 regions, because they are a total of 1,000 police officers. So the incompetent Interior Minister, Rakušan, who's been ministering for three quarters of a year, basically now... This causes concern that police officers in the regions will not have the capacity to deal with crime. There will be a decrease in the clarity of criminal offences, and citizens are concerned about this. So there are already accumulated problems caused by the incompetent government of Petr Fiala, and especially the incompetent and incredibly arrogant Interior Minister Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement, which is intertwined with organized crime. The STAN movement also had the biggest decline, around 30% of the number of representatives' mandates in these elections, so citizens can see it too. So now the situation is that due to the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, who cannot handle the STAN movement, and the government in the Czech Republic, the number of illegal migrants, especially Syřan, are still growing, coming mainly from Turkey and also from Afghanistan. For most of them we are so far transit countries on our way to Germany, but many of them remain in the territory for a transitional period. And here I would like to stop for a moment, because even Austria, which has not yet been the final target country in the recent past, since it was Germany, as we all know today, is now becoming the target country, so of course there is a situation that can happen very quickly at the moment that the Rakušan close the borders and tighten the conditions and the Němec too, so the Czech Republic will be the target country. And now we have a situation where the Slovák refuse to return migrants to their territory, so Schengen does not work, agreements do not work. And now, because the government of Petr Fiala and the Minister of the Interior of Austrian for the STAN movement caused the situation, especially that our borders are like a colander, the SPD has been calling for a long time to increase border surveillance because we warned about... we saw an increase in the migration wave. So we are actually getting into a stalemate, a dead end because of the government of Petr Fiala and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan from STAN, and of course everything is being paid unnecessarily by the citizens of the Czech Republic. Today it is the arrival of several hundred illegal migrants a day, between which clearly men between the ages of 18 and 30 prevail. Well, coming in... it's been captured in hundreds of migrants a day. Why am I talking about capture? Because it's just the tip of the iceberg, and of course the police won't be able to pick up everyone, notabene, when the minister himself confirms that he's unable to secure the capacity because he's incompetent. And I'll come back to that. For example, the residents of Holešov in Moravia, which is next to Bystřice pod Hostýn, where my family came from in Zlín Region, where an immigration centre was recently established in Holešov, according to news server Novinky.cz in this context, concerns about your safety. And it's not just there. People across the border of South Moravia on the Slovak border are worried about their security, and I've been telling you this for months. But you don't give a damn about the security of citizens of the Czech Republic, the government of Petr Fiala doesn't care about it, the coalition of ODS, STAN, Pirates, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. It is also quite clear that the Schengen system for the free movement of the EU is not working, and further this is evidence of a complete failure, as I have already said, by the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan of the STAN movement, President of the STAN movement, who is not dealing with this situation. There are currently some 6,000 policemen missing all over the Czech Republic, and the Interior Minister Austrian is dealing with this situation by simply merging police services instead of systematically addressing the increase in police officers by increasing their salaries and stabilizing the police force. Logically, you would rather put billions on Ukraine than solve the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Of course, we know that, and I just don't agree with it. For us, the Czech citizen comes first, for us in the SPD, and the Czech Republic comes first. For you in the government coalition, Berlin, Brussels, Ukraine, Washington and I do not know who else. For us in the SPD - I am not interested in Russia's interests at all, I am not interested in Ukraine, Berlin, Brussels, Washington. I am interested in the interest of Czech citizens and the Czech Republic and we want and will proceed accordingly. That's the difference between the SPD and you. The SPD has been saying all along: We simply reject mass illegal migration to the Czech Republic. You, on the other hand, support her. And yet, now that it's coming and it's out of hand, you don't know what, and all the citizens are paying for it. That is why we have said from the beginning that there is a need to increase border control, and we simply reject this mass illegal migration and demand consistent control of our national borders. [[14.30 hours]] And what does Prime Minister Petr Fiala, the incompetent and incompetent Prime Minister, do? There are dudes here, bragging that we are chairing the EU Council, chairing the European Union. What's that for? We are already in the middle of the Presidency. What's the result? I asked the citizens at the pre-election meetings whether their lives had somehow improved during the three months of the Presidency. Nobody says anything, nobody feels anything. It costs more than CZK 2 billion, the Presidency, as you agreed here. We were against it. We said, "Let's give it to our needy people." So the result is that it turns out once again that the Presidency of the European Union in the hands of Prime Minister Petr Fiala is useless, that it is merely servilent silence. Nor is there a Union energy solution, nor is there a solution to the migration crisis, nothing, nothing. You just travel from Brussels, Brussels and walk around in expensive receptions, where millions of crowns are spent on luxury refreshments, as we could read in the media. So I just want to propose here again this extraordinary point because, first of all, the government is reacting lately, it's not premeditated. Even the police president says that there are no capacities, that police officers in 14 regions will be missing at the expense of this. The migrants are starting to accumulate here, they're staying here, so what's the solution and the plan? We need to make this clear in the House. So I wanted to call again, because the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan is God knows where - I don't know, maybe he's dealing with issues in the organized crime party that they have - so any minister, which is why I like to lower my demand, but any minister - well, there is Minister Lipavskýý for pirát - so he should express what is the plan to deal with the migration wave and the incoming migration crisis in the Czech Republic, illegal migration. So this is my proposal for another special item and I beg your approval. Again, it may not take long, although that point number 2, it will undoubtedly deserve some discussion as well, because there is absolutely extraordinary helplessness. And at that first point, energy, that's where we see the cluelessness in the government, but it would be good to at least say whether you're going to put a stop to the whole consumption or not in the household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u5	Mr President, you may have been cordial about that point, but you didn't say when you wanted to include it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u6	I said, second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u7	As a second point, today a second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u8	I said second point, if you're there then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u9	I really didn't notice that. I'm sorry. But the second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u10	After all, right at the beginning of my performance, I said, as the next point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u11	The second, then, is today's point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u12	Or maybe I even said the other one. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u13	Okay, thank you. So now Mr. Aleš Juchelka is on the agenda with two applications, so after five minutes, he knows for sure that we are already on the next day of the meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u14	Hello. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, I may fit in in a few minutes. I have here two suggestions that I would like to assign, respectively put them first and second points on Friday. That first item on Friday, and both of these prints have already been delivered to all Members on 3 June, I would like to assign the number 233, which is an exceptional contribution of 6 000 thanks to the higher price of food, fuel and housing, and so on for seniors, and as item 2 on Friday, it was delivered to all Members and Members of the press number 234 on the same day, which is an increase in parental contribution from CZK 300 to CZK 400 000, since we have been witnessing several months of debate from government politicians that the parental contribution should be increased. We have this press here a long time ago in the Houses of Systems, and I think it is only necessary to agree on how much it will increase and how it needs to be compared gradually year by year. And I think there is no need to delay and wait for any other proposals, either government or MPs. I know the pirát here also proposed an increase in parenting a few weeks ago probably already with something specific, so I think that this point here, and I will ask for his support, should be included, once again, as a second point on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr Marek Novák is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to paragraph 86, House press No 246, amendment of the Health Protection Act to the harmful effects of addictive substances. The amendment deals with a ban on the sale of nicotine bags under the age of 18. This proposal has already been discussed by the government with a final neutral position. Basically, it's a stop sign for nicotine bags for kids and teenagers. I have mentioned here several times that the Ministry of Health has also commented on this problem that it wants to address it, that it will present its own novel. It's been a few months, the novel hasn't been submitted yet. That's why I'm asking for a preposition of our proposal so that we can sort this out and really finally protect our children here from this harmful substance that they can get anywhere at any time today. There are real problems. It is proven to be fundamentally harmful to health, it is shown to be a highly addictive substance containing nicotine. So I'm asking for our children's support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u17	And when do you want to put it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u18	Thank you. I would ask that this be included in the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u19	Tonight?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u20	Tonight, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u21	Today, after the fixed points. Thank you. That's voteable. Well, thank you. The next one is registered with priority rights, Minister Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u22	Thank you for your word. I would like only briefly to go to the programme and to the points already included. On the agenda of this meeting is also the House Press 160, which is a law on the promotion of low-emission vehicles, and I would like to appeal to all my fellow Members to discuss this law as soon as possible for a simple reason. The implementation deficit in the case of this law, the fact that the law is not approved, is already so great that we are really in imminent danger of proceeding before the EU Court of Justice. The law was submitted here in the last parliamentary term, but unfortunately the last government did not secure its adoption, and the transposition period, when this law is to be part of the legislation in the Czech Republic, expired on 2 August 2021. I understand that this law is being criticized because current electricity prices are enormous, but the conditions of this law will not be fulfilled until the end of 2025 in the first period. This could be a completely different energy situation. While we know how to produce electricity, oil, gasoline, we can't quite make diesel, and there we really depend on this fuel to be available. So this dependence on fossil fuels, which is supposed to change this step in the future, can actually be significantly more risky from the point of view of implementation. Here was a large part of the comments that were made on this proposal from both the diaper and the media, for example, that from now on ambulances and fire trucks would have to be powered by batteries. This is a completely misinterpretation, we have already explained this here, we have explained it to the committee, so the adoption of the proposal does not really prevent it. Similarly, we do not expect the impact on urban public transport at this time to be significant because the control period is set for 2025. Today, we have just sent an opinion to the European Commission from the Ministry of Regional Development, because we have once again been urged, in which we are trying to delay the filing of the lawsuit for the last time, and if it is brought, the imposition of sanctions is indeed inevitable. The Court will no longer take into account the fact that the legislative process in the Czech Parliament is underway. He simply evaluates that implementation was not fulfilled on 2 August 2021, and that is the reason for imposing sanctions. You will surely agree with me, whether you are from opposition benches or from government desks, that something like this is not in the interests of the Czech Republic. [[14.40 hours]] So, please, let us adopt this law, let us discuss it, fulfil the implementation obligation, and we have years to deal with even more systematically in the case of support for low-emission vehicles. So if this law fails to be discussed today - and he is on the agenda, so please don't let anyone delay towards this law - then, of course, I will endeavour to negotiate it at the earliest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-000-000.u23	Thank you. I'm not filing another application anymore. There is still an unused application with President Benda's preferential right to withdraw it. I called in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby so that we could vote on the proposed changes to the agenda. Before everyone gets here, I'll read some more apologies. Bělor Roman apologizes from 14:00 to 14.25 hours for working reasons, Bernard Josef from 15 to 19 for working reasons, Stržínek Robert from 18:00 to 23.45 for working reasons, Válková Helena from 14:30 to 15:30 for working reasons, voborský Milada from the whole day for personal reasons and Zlínský Vladimír from 14:30 to 16.30 for working reasons. I'm registering an interest in the check-out, which is why I'm signing you off and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your cards. There were several proposals to amend the agenda, but first we would vote on proposals from the Gremium. I have already made suggestions from Gremia. I'm asking if there's any interest in me reading them again? If I don't see anyone wanting me to read them again, I believe we know what we're voting on. So I am opening the vote on the proposals from the Gremium, as agreed. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 85, 144 present, for all 144. The motion was accepted. These proposals follow, as they have been made, I will read them. President Okamura proposes the inclusion of a new point under the following title: Sprinkling electricity and gas prices, when the government once again cheated on citizens the day after the elections. So first of all, we are voting for the inclusion of the item and then we would vote for a firm inclusion. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this new point, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? [[Noise in the hall.]] In vote number 86 registered 148 present, for 68, against 76. The motion was denied. We will therefore not vote on solid inclusion. Also, President Okamura proposes another new item for this meeting, under the name of the Czech Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and the European Union's failure in the migration wave, I hope I have not confused that name. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 87, 150 present are registered, for 55, against 80. The motion was denied. Mr Juchelka proposes a solid pre-position of a point which has already been placed at the meeting. This is the number of paragraph 82, House printing 233, the One-time Contribution Act, and proposes a firm inclusion for this week, Friday 30. Nine, first point. I am opening the vote on this solid inclusion and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 88, 150 present are registered, for 70, against 62. The motion was not accepted. Mr Aleš Juchelka also proposes the prioritization of paragraph 83, House press 234, which is the Act on State Social Support. He originally suggested a second point as a Friday, but I assume he didn't pass the first point as well as the first point. So the Member agrees as a plaintiff. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item on Friday as the first item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the 89 vote, there are 150 people present, for 68, against 70. The motion was denied. Mr Marek Novák also proposes a firm inclusion of the point already included, namely item 86, House Press 246. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Colleagues and colleagues, I beg you to keep your voice down! Please let us all understand what we are going to vote on. It is a law on health protection against addictive substances and proposes to include it as the first point today after already firmly placed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 90 is 150 present, for 69, against 74. The motion was denied. We have thus dealt with all the changes to the draft agenda. If no one objects, I can see that this is the case, and therefore we will proceed to discussing points. The first one should be to discuss item number 10, but not until 16 o'clock. So first, let's start with point 95 when it comes to
