ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u1	112. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 / House print 144/ - second reading I would ask that the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, or the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Josef Bernard, come to the counter that is ready. So we will start discussing the Government's draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022, the House's press 144, second reading. On behalf of the Government, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance, will present the proposal, which I would like to ask at the moment to take the floor, and I would also ask all Members to remain calm in the Chamber, and if there is anything you need to take care of in order to go to the lobby of the Chamber. Thank you very much. I'll wait for the peace, please. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, today I will have a really short opening word. I just want to remind you that at first reading, the Chamber of Deputies approved the basic parameters of the state budget, the total revenue of 1 613.2 billion, the total expenditure of 1 893.2 billion, and the deficit of 280 billion. At this point, I would like to thank all the gesture committees for discussing the various chapters of the state budget and especially the Budget Committee for the comprehensive discussion and processing of documents for second reading. I suppose it will be as always that there will be many amendments to the state budget today for this year, so I would just like to point out and note that according to the Budgetary Rules Act, the minimum amount of the government's budget reserve is clearly defined, which amounts to 0,3 % of the total expenditure of the state budget, so at this point we have over this minimum amount, we have budgeted 2 billion 994 million 819 thousand...... thank you... 125 CZK, which is the maximum that the Chamber of Deputies can use by voting on the amendments in other chapters. [[The speaker was silent for the noise in the hall.]] Since Vladimír Putin started a war in Ukraine last Thursday, in those eight days or seven days, the government prepared basically three amendments that respond to the war situation in Ukraine. We're going to propose an increase in the Ministry's budget by 1.5 billion...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u3	I'll ask again for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Interior by 1.5 billion to secure a programme of assistance to the citizens of Ukraine, an increase of CZK 300 million to humanitarian aid, of which CZK 150 million to the Ministry of Interior and CZK 150 million to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and an increase in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence by 1 billion to be intended for the purchase of small arms. I consider the approval of these amendments in the context of the situation to be very important and firmly believe, and I also draw from public sources that these proposals will receive support across the Chamber of Deputies. Then I must remind you of the unpleasant fact, and you will certainly believe us that this is not something we would have done on purpose, we will propose that these amendments be voted first, and that when all the reserves are exhausted above the legal limit, the other amendments will be unvoted. I still have a little request, if that's even possible. When all the amendments under second reading are completed, if a political agreement could arise, there will be some 199 million remaining, in which order the amendments to be submitted will be voted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. At this point, I note that this proposal has been ordered by the President of the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution has been distributed as House Press 144/2. And I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets take the floor, and therefore his chairman, Mr Josef Bernard. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, hello. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets from its 9th meeting, held on 1 March of this year under number 61. This is a resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022, the House print 144, and the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022, second reading: "After the opening words of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, Josef Bernard's report and after the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Notes that all the committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the state budget under the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 95 of 18 February of this year and adopted their resolutions on them; II. Notes that the following committees have recommended that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following accompanying resolutions: 1. The Defence Committee's proposal: The Chamber of Deputies recommends the Government to give priority to the National Security Office's project on the technological replacement of the Cefeus information system, and the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic in Chapter 308 has ensured the financing of the project for the period 2025 to 2027. 2. Proposal for a Security Committee: Chamber of Deputies (a) calls on the Government, in view of the security situation and the forthcoming Presidency of the EU Council, to amend the draft budget for 2022 in favour of Chapter 378 of the National Cyber Security Authority, including tables; (b) Calls on the Government to adjust the budget in the necessary way in view of the current security situation and defence capacity of the Czech Republic. III. It recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2022, the House print 144 and the Government Draft of the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022: The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2022 and with the Government's proposal for the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, according to House's press number 144, as amended by the amendments approved under Annexes I and II to this resolution. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic," which I have just done. If there is no further objection, ladies and gentlemen, I will not read Annexes I and II here, you have them all at your disposal. I don't suppose anyone requires us to read the attachments here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u7	I also thank the President of the Committee on Budgets and now, before I open up a detailed debate or, respectively, I have priority rights here. First with priority rights is the Minister of Defence Jana Černochová, so I will ask the Minister whether to open a detailed debate or before? Okay, so at this point, I will allow myself to open a detailed debate on the draft law. In a detailed debate, priority rights are also given, and at the moment, the Minister of Defence Jana Černochová is registered. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u8	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I hereby sign up for the amendment, which is listed in the system under number 525. This is an increase in the budget of Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence for the year 2022 by a billion crowns to purchase handguns and accelerate the re-arming of the army in this area. We all know what's going on in Ukraine. Russia's aggression has and will have a long-term impact on our security. We must therefore speed up the modernisation of our armed forces, and this increase is one of the first steps we are preparing. As some of the media know, we have approached and continued to address our Czech suppliers in particular, in view of the situation, to make every effort to speed up deliveries and where production capacity is available or it is possible to reach the Ministry of Defence in priority, namely the Czech Republic, to deliver something extra for us. We involve state-owned enterprises in the negotiations. We are speeding up the implementation of the framework contracts already concluded. So it is clear to all of us that, like us, we are trying to complement our warehouses and buy various weapons systems, just like all other countries do. We are all competing for the same production capacity, which will be reflected not only in the time of delivery, but can also affect the final price. However, we have to do this, we have to shop. It's in favor of our defenses. We are creating a comprehensive list of acquisitions based on the needs of the military and which will shortly be presented to the government according to the task. I want to be sure that, in this context, if I ask for an increase in the resources of the Ministry of Defence chapter, I will be able to actually exhaust these resources and guarantee to the public that expenditure has been effected in accordance with the laws and in compliance with the rules of effectiveness, efficiency and economy. At this point, we are heading to these areas in particular. To have the information in detail, just briefly: handguns, assault guns, rifles, machine guns, ground and air transport technology, spare parts for military equipment, ammunition. Where we will not be able to succeed with Czech suppliers, we will try to address directly either NSPA in NATO, or we will prefer G-to-G projects, government-government. Finally, I would like to stress that this is indeed an increase that covers what we are sure that we will certainly be able to buy this this year. Of course, we are prepared to do so if, during the course of the year, it would be necessary to increase the defence budget in the context of the deterioration of the situation not only in Ukraine, but also in the context of the emergence of opportunities for further accelerated modernization of the military. After all, this was clearly declared by the Government of the Czech Republic by its resolution from this Wednesday, when it supported the increase in the Ministry of Defence budget by this 1 billion and in this resolution it also committed again to further increasing the MO budget, whether this year, if necessary, or in other years. So at this point, I am signing up for this amendment, and I am intensively negotiating with the Minister of Finance on further possible increases in the Ministry of Defence budget chapter, but I will do so when I have clear information about how much money we will be able to spend, because it would be unfair to the Czech Republic, to other colleagues, if I now take advantage of the situation and use it so that I will ask for billions here, and at the end it will end up in unexpensed expenses, because even the former Minister of Defence knows that the Ministry of Defence department has some capacity, those firms have some capacity, and although we are all trying to do everything to speed up the modernisation, we simply do not have some things in our hands and we are dependent on suppliers. Thank you for your attention and for supporting my proposal at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u9	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. At this point, I would like to read one more apology. There is an apology from Minister Šalomoun from today, from today's meeting of the diaper from 12 o'clock to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. We are in a detailed debate, another who is registered with priority rights, is the chairman of the ANO club, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I will speak later with my amendment, but let me start very briefly, I do not want to stretch this out...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u11	Madam President, I will interrupt you at the beginning. I would ask again for peace in the Chamber. We're discussing the state budget, second reading. If there's anything you need to discuss, please go to the lobby. It's very disturbing who's speaking at the speaker's desk. Thank you. Madam President, you have the floor. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So let me say a few words in the second reading of the state budget, which takes place in a situation that we could not imagine back for days. After 30 years of relative calm, our Western civilization is threatened by a military conflict just a few hundred miles from our borders. We all know what's going on, we watch it every day. [[9.20 hours]] Although I believe the Prime Minister's assurance that there is no immediate risk of military nature at the moment, we are facing challenges that we did not want to think about until recently. And unfortunately at this point - I believe we are all aware of this, especially the government - we are not prepared for them. Unfortunately, we are in a budget make-up, I don't want to take it back to the government, I blamed it several times, I had a number of arguments about it, I won't repeat them, and today we are going into an emergency state, which we also do not criticize, as you have noticed, because we know from our own experience that this is only a legal framework for resolving the crisis. And the crisis here is undoubtedly as it was two years ago when the covid came, so we get it. What is very wrong, however, is not prepared for this from the point of view of public finances. That means, the combination, the murderous combination of emergency status next to the budget provisional, means we're unable to react promptly. And that's why I'm trying to be as constructive as I can be right now. We will not in any way, I repeat it again, and there is all the more reason to block the adoption of the state budget, but we have to admit that what we are going to talk about here today, and many of you are going to be doing, including me, and here we are going to defend our amendments that make sense, even though we know as political realists that they won't pass, so at least in this way we're going to point out where we see the problem. In doing so, we all have to admit: We do not lie in our pockets, please, that what we are talking about here is outdated, does not describe current needs and must be amended as quickly as possible. And I'm glad the Prime Minister admitted it yesterday after my interview. The Minister of Defence, through the Vice-President, has now spoken, has defended her amendment to 1 billion. We will support him, the YES movement, we will support him, I say this openly that we will support him because it is a step in the right direction. I say again, and my colleague from our bench of the YES movement, Mr Metnar, will certainly talk about it - it will not be enough. It won't be enough! I don't want to remind you that we've been the defense department since 2014, when its budget was below 1% of GDP, they've been trying to keep increasing, even though we had to slow it down because of the covid. At the end of 2021, this was around 1,3% of GDP. I warned a few weeks ago that it wasn't reasonable, and we were running a firefight here, whether a contract was ready or not, and I'm sure the secretary knows it well. I drove through with the Chief of Staff, General Opata, several crews, and I saw the condition, the diametric differences. I'm sure our army has somewhere to put the money. And if it wasn't for the contract, he could be putting it somewhere else. So we support it, we don't criticize it, we say it won't be enough. Again, I would like to remind myself that it is just a seed bead: in the budget of this government, humanitarian aid is reduced by one quarter in the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from 200 million to 150. And you now have the amendment, which was signalled by the Minister of Finance to the Budget Committee, 1.8 billion, of which the most logically goes to the Ministry of the Interior, so it actually strengthens by 150 million humanitarian aid to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's just something that, as they say in Moravia, doesn't give me a headache. So is the Home Office. How much did it cut? [[He's looking into government benches.]] I don't know if the Minister here... He's not here. I don't know, 2.7-- I'd have to take a look, I've got it in those big files on my desk-- so it has to be added right now. And again, will that be enough? We have an emergency. There must be refugees staying somewhere, 5,000 per day according to your information, 30,000 here according to government information is already there. Of course, it has to be paid by the state, it has to be secured. All of this is fine, we support it, we support the government's policy in this crisis, the refugee crisis that has triggered Russia's aggression on Ukraine, but it will all cost something. And you already know it's gonna cost you. There will be other things, I think that you discussed or should have discussed the social package yesterday. These are all things where we're ready to talk constructively to you about these things, we're ready to support them if they make sense, they'll need to. It's just not gonna be things that we're blocking here in any way. We are even ready to vote for them. We will also vote in favour of this amendment of 1.8 billion, which the Minister of Finance has addressed to the Committee on Budgets, because, yes, the money is needed. It doesn't matter that it's your proposal. It makes sense, and we support it. Just like we'll support all the things you need to come up with. But I appeal to you again, consider it. You have an amendment to the State Budget Act, you already know that today. There will be a new macroeconomic forecast in April. Thanks to this prediction according to my estimate - but of course I don't have the detailed figures that the Ministry of Finance will create - in my estimate, due to inflation, which is definitely going to be double-digit, unfortunately, you're going to get a lot more money than you got on the basis of the prediction from January 2022. That means reconsider some of your cuts, please. Public health insurance succeeded in 2021 with a deficit of 13 billion. I know they have over 50 billion on their reserves. It's thanks to our government's policy, which increased the payment for state insurance, but managed a deficit of 13 billion. What will be the outcome of public health insurance if we accept so many refugees? And we have to take care of them, they have different health conditions. I know, Minister, through Madam Vice-President, that you said at the interpelations yesterday, I heard that new payments for state insured people would come up with this, but that's an expense for the state budget. This means rethink some of these things and take advantage of this second chance you will have. I've been through it all, I've been through seven budgets, I've never been happy about it, I don't want you to, I know how uncomfortable it is. Rethink these things because you're going to have huge, huge expenses. And please, if you rethink the budget, because today we're gonna be here all day -- we're not gonna stretch it out -- we're not gonna sign up for amendments, we're gonna vote them out next week, no one wants to slow it down, we need a budget here, we know that. You know you have little reserves there. I can do the math as a former finance secretary. You've got billions of units there, so you're gonna have to do the novel. Please do it honestly and please, let's help the refugees, help, help those people, we want that, but let's not forget our people. Let's not forget that our people have huge problems with the energy crisis, they're starting to have huge problems with other... with inflation and these things. I get news every day - and you get news from people, and people are scared. So let's help everyone, but let's not forget our people. Please have these considerations, because you now have the executive responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Now the next person who is registered with priority rights is Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Karel Havlíček. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u14	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. Let me give you my point of view. First of all, what I consider to be a minor problem, after I consider to be a larger problem, and ultimately a fundamental problem within the budget. [[9.30 hours]] The first problem I perceive is that actually 77 billion crowns are not saved. It is a question of handy tricks, it is a question of well-set work with savings that arose from 2021. A typical example is the Ministry of Transport, where there is no savings of CZK 9 billion, but less than half, because CZK 5 billion was on the accounts. He's already working handsomely with the budget reserve. We know very well that the Czech Post will have to pay 1.5 billion for its services to the residents of the Czech Republic, that the Czech Telecommunications Office will have to do this immediately after the notification from the European Commission, and we know that we will have to make it out of the budget reserve. We also know that we didn't save money on renewables by not paying them off to solar investors because we have to pay them out by law, not to mention that it's in government regulations. We can discuss that it will not be a whole of 27 billion, that it will be slightly less due to energy prices. However, in any case, much of this will have to be clearly paid off, and it will be from future income. All I'm saying is that 77 billion hasn't been saved, but it's just a savings game. That's the first thing. From my point of view and in the current context of what is happening in Ukraine, however, it is a minor problem. As far as the Ministry of Transport is concerned - I will apply to this as soon as I will to the Ministry of Industry - there we consider the so-called savings of CZK 9 billion to be a big problem. The fact that it touches clear maintenance, that it touches repairs is quite obvious, and it is not a good thing that the standard is set at the Ministry of Transport below, because in the coming years it will logically depend on this and 3 billion that go immediately from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, and the other 5 billion that have been examined there could be intended not only for maintenance and repairs, but also for investments that must be delayed today. Please don't argue with what we had in our budget. Of course, we would be working there not only with the 3 billion on SFDI, but also with the savings that were made there from last year - it would be generated every year - and would be reflected in future investments. But again, in the context of what is happening today in Ukraine, we might end our discussion with this. As opposition, we would criticize the fact that you have collected CZK 1.5 billion at a fare discount, which we will try to return. We would criticize the fact that money is being taken into transport infrastructure. You, in turn, would argue that you want to save money, and that would have closed everything, because you wouldn't have taken those proposals away from us anyway. The problem I want to open is a completely different character. Now, please, let's not just take this politically. I will read three figures here, and I ask that the members of the government not only think about them, but that together we can come to a conclusion on how we are going to deal with this. It's about energy. The next three numbers are like this. Last week, on Thursday - and we already knew that we were in an energy crisis, we discussed how to help, whether social support, area support, and so on - the price of electricity was 127 euros per megawatt hour. Today, a week later, there's a price of 366 euros on the stock market for a megawatt hour. That's almost triple it. Gas last week, 95 euros per megawatt hour, today we are at 160 euros per megawatt hour. If I add to that what a barrel of oil costs, it's about 30 percent higher than it was at the beginning of the year, we're at $12 per barrel. That's the highest value in the last eight years. Not only is the energy crisis not ending, it is deepening in a fundamental way. We just can't close our eyes on that. The fact that this is not reflected in consumers' accounts today is due only to the fact that today they are still working with the prices of 2021, because wholesale players have fixed them. So if today we're moving on prices that are tripled from last week, this year and next year we're going to have an energy apocalypse. Let us forget that we will address it with the tools proposed by the government. We have already criticized them in a situation where the prices were threefold lower, and we have seen that it does not work as it should. We have proposed a number of tools, surface tools, VAT, we have proposed renewable resources. None of this has been answered. I don't know what's waiting for at this point. Those households can't stand it, and even the companies can't stand it. Every day, we will move on to have more and more households on the energy poverty line, not because they have low incomes, but because they have a substantial increase in the price of energy. Yes, it is true that this is particularly at the moment due to the Ukrainian crisis. We don't blame the government for high energy prices, that would be unfair. We blame the inaction and poise of the character that, even though it is happening today, it is not reflected in the budget at all. We all need to know by now that we won't have enough of $3.4 billion to support the fight against energy problems. It's just obvious. But I don't want to be just a critic, and let's just say the notifier of bad news. Finally, I believe that today, every responsible member of the government will do the first thing in the morning, apart from looking at the Ukrainian crisis, so they will look at Otto and the energy prices that will simply catch up with us. We have three options on how to address at least the problem of renewable resources. Yes, it's a payment we have to make every year. It takes away the household, takes away the companies, and takes away the state. The total is 46 billion crowns. This is the result of the irresponsibleness of the Government and Parliament between 2005 and 2010. We have to deal with it, and the 46 billion is an account that pays the household and which the companies pay. 27 billion of them fall on the shoulders of the state and the budget, 19 billion of them fall on the shoulders of households and companies. At this point, we propose to temporarily stop these 19 billion crowns. We have options to deal with this. Basically, there are three. To simplify it, let's say one is Zemanův's variant, the other is Babišův's variant, the third is Havlíčkov's Havlíčkův. In principle, however, all three can be applied because logically you can come up with the fact that the 19 billion crowns that we would forgive today - and it would not only be a gesture of not paying households and companies to whom it would help immensely, but at the same time it would be symbolic, because we are currently in the energy crisis still paying debts for the government of 2010, respectively Parliament. So the first option proposed by President Zeman is to change the law, so that this amount will not be paid to solar investors. It doesn't have to be done forever, it can be done in time, it means it can be postponed by two years. At this point, it would have occurred that it would not have to pay from the budget of these 19 billion crowns. Yes, it's a change of law, but we say we stand up for it and support it. If the government really has the courage not to pay it off and not play bookkeeping tricks to end up not paying it, and rely on higher electricity prices, then let it be presented and we'll support it. This will save households and companies 19 billion crowns. The second option is the option proposed by Prime Minister Babiš, and it is fair to project 19 billion into the budget and compensate by having higher revenue in the budget, we call it inflation revenue, and it is income, among other things, that we have more expensive energy prices. This is reflected in the budget of at least 60 billion crowns. That means, we're saying that if these people pay, then those people have the right to be spared these payments. The third option, let's call it the Havlíčkov Havlíčkův, but it's not an unknown option, is that even if the government said: I don't want to go into a dispute with solar investors and I refuse to save companies and households CZK 19 billion, even if they are paid de facto by the higher inflation revenues that the government has from that budget, there is an option to compensate for it from higher emission allowances prices. I mean, it's a regular way. The emission allowances today are not 30 euros, but 90 euros. The bad news is that it hits our economy hard. The good news, to put it this way, is that it's going positive in terms of emission allowances revenue, and they're not going to be 150 billion as expected by 2027, they're not going to be 250 billion, but they're probably up to 500 billion. I don't want to shoot numbers here right now, it will depend on the price of the emission allowance, but also on the quantity. In this case it is obvious that it can be done that it can be compensated from these sources. [[9.40 hours]] But be careful, we can't do this until the moment it's in the Modernization Fund, it's too late. It has to be done in the legal way, and, in simple terms, the money that goes in there must be diverted in time and used to compensate for this character. It's what other countries do, so I don't know why we don't do it the same way that other countries forgive payments for renewables. We love watching Germany, so let's see. That's what Germany did. It forgave payments for renewable resources. What did Poland do? It's reduced the VAT. What did Austria do? Once again, a wide path with a special contribution. What did Croatia do? It's reduced the VAT. What did Spain do? And so on. One country after another within the European Union, with regard to the development of the energy crisis and, unfortunately, the development of the situation in Ukraine, comes to simple, rapid and flat-rate energy compensation. Dear members of the government, it won't miss us. Anyway, we're gonna have to do this, and let's not leave the house and the company in doubt at this point. Everything I have said, I will apply to this in the framework of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u15	Thank you, too, and at this point, I would like to read my apologies. I have here an apology from Mr. David Pražák, all today for reasons of work. Then I have an apology here for the foreign business trip from all this day to Mr. Ondřej Benešík, and the last apology is Mr. Radim Fiala's apology from today's meeting, from 9:00 to 11:00 for health reasons. At this point, I would like to speak with priority rights, so I would ask my colleague, Vice-President Karel Havlíček, if he could represent me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u16	Thank you for the handover, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I must say that when my colleague, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Karel Havlíček, and the former Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport, told us how the increased price of electricity from EUR 127 per megawatt hour to EUR 366 per megawatt hour in electricity, and the gas from EUR 95 per megawatt hour increased to EUR 168 per megawatt hour, it is really starting to freeze me very much. And I'm glad he's gonna be here to make that amendment. But at the same time, I would like to point out to the government that our chair of the Alena Schillerová parliamentary club also put in the system drafts of laws that solve this problem. We've already presented it here at the end of the year, we've called for an emergency meeting. So, once again, the bill for a reduction, or zero percent VAT rate, is now being submitted. There is a law on savings from renewable sources, where both domestic and businessmen would feel this savings, and it would go from the Modernization Fund. So I call on the government to give these three bills, which are already in the system, to discuss them as soon as possible and to come here as soon as possible to the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can approve them, because at that point, citizens would have savings of about 36%. And as my previous speaker, colleague Karel Havlíček, said, it won't miss us anyway. And I think that when we asked you here at the end of the year to approve, maybe to approve it for a few months, that was the solution that was supposed to be approved. But again, since the last government came up with this, you didn't approve it, and you came up with another solution about the housing supplement, about the social support that you see isn't helping citizens. And you'll see in a few days, when prices like this, this increase is what's going to happen in society. And it's gonna be a really big, huge problem. Now I would like to comment on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. Mrs Schillerová, chairman of our MP's club, has already spoken about this. The amount and the savings that - and the cuts that took place there - are about 4 billion. I'm sure we all agree that security is one of the most important areas where money has to be put into, and I'm really very surprised that the Home Office has taken money for cops and firemen. The fact that there are currently around 1.6 billion missing from the budget for police officers and there is no way that there is a cover on the table for police officers because you can find it properly in the chapter is not covered by the budget of 4 242 tables at the moment. This means that if the Police of the Czech Republic were able to recruit these police officers, they would not have funds for them because they are not financially covered. At the same time, it is still unsolved and resonates from individual regions, as will be the case with dietary officers regarding the payment, which means the so-called food fee, and at the same time a stabilization surcharge. These are things that are still not clear, even though the Home Secretary said last time that money is in the budget, but the concerns within the regions are still that they will not receive the funds, because today they are paying for it from their savings and they are paying for it themselves by not having the budget approved. I have one more important thing to repeat here, and that is that the previous government has increased salaries by CZK 1,400 to police officers and firefighters and, of course, another by its regulation. This new government came and the first thing it did, so it reduced it to 700 crowns, and it is only for police officers and firefighters who are in uniform. Those who don't have uniforms didn't get you anything. I'd like to say that with police officers, it's about 10,000 police officers who are civilian employees without uniforms, and with firemen, it's about 1,000. And if you look practically, because of course we have inflation here, and even if the sum of 700 crowns increases, all members of the security forces and armed forces will, unfortunately, take less this year than last year. The average salary for the police officer was CZK 45 479 and this year the police will receive an average of CZK 45 144 even with the increase given, and we do not know how it will be for each regional directorate about the stabilization surcharge and how it will be for the food fee if they are entitled to it. With regard to civil servants, the average salary is approximately CZK 31,472, and will be reduced to CZK 31,348 this year. When I was also on the Security Committee, I was also very interested in how the future police president spoke about their big problem with hiring civil servants in the police force, that it is very difficult to get them. And we have also clearly pointed out that police officers and firefighters have justly received covido rewards, and this may also mean that some police officers in the line of duty will decide to leave the police, and there may be an overall large reduction in the number of police officers. I would like to say that we in the Czech Republic need about 45 000 policemen, and today we have about 40,000 police officers, so police are not, therefore, various recruitment contributions and other benefits are being made to get police officers at all. And I think that when it gets public today that the Police of the Czech Republic have withdrawn from the budget of CZK 1.6 billion, the question is whether other interested parties will be in a state of police. And I think that should be our primary task to get new cops. And what I'm saying is that the last government just came in and increased the number of tables by 3,000, it was a huge success that it managed to push through, and it was the cops who were supposed to be in those district departments where they were needed, in traffic and others where it is closest to people. So this is the Police of the Czech Republic. [[9.50 hours]] What surprised me, I don't want to say more, but it surprised me, is that one billion of the firefighters have withdrawn from the budget. I see my fellow mayors here, the captains, and we all know that firefighters have an irreplaceable role in all cities and villages. They're not only helping us when they're on fire, but they're helping us in our everyday life situations, whether it's that you're gonna have a door slam, or you've got a wasp's nest in your backyard, or you've got icicles on your roof. They simply help us in everyday situations and have a truly irreplaceable role. And we all know that I'm the former mayor that firefighters are the treasure of the village and we all greatly appreciate them because they help us. And I was really surprised that the state budget cut $1 billion for both professional and volunteer firefighters. And now I'll tell you what the cut was for: 200 million was cut off by volunteer firefighters to buy tank-vehicle syringes, buy transport cars, and rebuild firefighters' armory. I would like to say that we in the Czech Republic currently have 2,350 tank-vehicle syringes, fire trucks, which come to the intervention of the so-called JPO twos and threes. The previous government has put funds in the budget to keep these tank-vehicle syringes changing, because they are obsolete, and it is therefore extremely necessary not to stop it now. I mean, the 2,350, 'cause the years before that, it didn't do anything about it, 1,300 is 25 years over. I'm sure all the MPs who are here in the House are communicating with the firefighters, and they know how many firearms reconstruction projects they have today. I think that the 200 million was a drop in the ocean, and that if these funds don't go in there, this year it's not just gonna change the tank car syringes, but it's not gonna reconstruct the firehouse, the fire department, the fire department. And I think volunteer firefighters have been helping, helping in the pandemic, helping at this point with the arrival of people from Ukraine, and I don't think that's a good signal for them. About professional firefighters, that's where the sum of CZK 800 million went. Part of it was just again for the purchase of tank-vehicle syringes, there I would like to say that today professional firefighters have 707 pieces and 288 of them are already for their lifetime. But what I'm even more upset about when I say I'm sorry is that the funds have gone to buy high-rise technology. We all know how important and necessary she is. Professional firefighters today have 266 units of high-rise technology and 111 of them are 20 years after their lifetime. So I'm sure you'll all feel it's appropriate that the funds to buy height technology are in the budget and that the new high-rise technology for professional firefighters who help us every day is available because they have it available for us to help us. I want to say that I have prepared several amendments with my colleagues, which I will then apply to in the second speech. I'd just like to appeal to the Minister of Finance. He knows that we have already communicated with him yesterday with my colleague Drahoslav Ryba, that we would really like to have at least some of the amendments supported, because we have made more variants with the fact that we would like the funds, at least to some extent, both professional and voluntary firefighters to return to all the things that I have talked about here, whether they are fire-fighters cars, whether it be the reconstruction of fire-arms, vehicles, the purchase of high-rise equipment. As far as the police are concerned, we believe that the spreadsheets must be covered. You can't have an approved budget so there's no financial cover for the arrival of new cops. So, on my part, I'm a little sorry that the Minister of Finance - he wasn't here when I spoke at first reading, now and at second reading, he must have run off somewhere, so I will, if necessary, comment directly on the individual amendments in my second speech. And I would like, above all, to ask the government's MPs to really, in the case of firefighters and policemen, in the case of the amendments, to think about it and not support some of the amendment. [[Supported?]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u18	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. We have factual points here. Mr. Milan Brázdil came forward first. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. In the meantime, I will also read the apologies: Minister Černochová apologizes for today's meeting from 9.40 for work reasons, and Mrs Eva Decroix also for work reasons throughout today's meeting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u19	Thank you for the floor. Let me react in my factual way to the previous speaker, who actually touched on the integrated rescue system, the two components that are solvable in the budget. I've been here a few days, and I know, but there's one file, and I think it's the most important one. It's not about life until the front row. Yeah, firefighters are delicious, cops are delicious, but there's another file, IZS' main file, Medical Rescue - 14 different times. Fourteen counties, fourteen originals, and they can't be helped, so I'm trying to do my best in the last parliamentary term, before last. They cannot be helped by being cared for and said: So we will add something to you, or we will take care of you from the level of government or from the level of state. She's been assigned 14 times to the county, and it's actually all about how the county stands up to it. So I have no amendment or anything like that, because I know that it is unrealistic that the only option was how the last government thanked them with an extraordinary reward that was even poorly paid in many regions. I pity you, fellow paramedics, but unfortunately. Take care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u20	Thank you for your point of view. At this point, who is next registered with a factual remark, is Mr Petr Letocha. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u21	Thank you. Madam President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to respond very briefly to my previous speakers, particularly to the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior. I will be here later to sign up for the amendments that are discussed with the Ministry of the Interior, both of which concern the response to the situation in Ukraine and which address certain chapters of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u22	I also thank you for keeping time. That was the last point of fact, at this point, I want to ask if anyone else is still applying with priority rights? I see no one, so at this point we are entering into a detailed debate - or we are continuing a detailed debate - and I would ask that Mr Karel Tureček come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u23	Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to sign up to two amendments in the system under number 503, both of which concern the budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture. This is about strengthening this chapter, and I would say that the national resources to support the Rural Development Programme, to co-finance the Rural Development Programme by CZK 1 billion, for several reasons. I have already announced this amendment at first reading, and at this point I must say that national resources are not fully used in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, I would say European funds to draw on this programme. The reduction of rural development funds will undoubtedly have a negative impact on rural and rural life. Currently, the countryside is facing serious problems. The rural population is getting older and young people leave the country for cities. This unfortunate phenomenon can alleviate sensible and targeted support for rural development. Maintaining a reasonable co-financing rate for the rural development programme also helps rural business operators, but also municipalities, which is particularly true for small municipalities. Reducing rural development funds will damage both rural civil society and business entities, and especially small municipalities. When co-financing - and I would like to stress this - one CZK from the state budget generates another CZK 2 from the budget of the European Union. Therefore, if the government withdraws CZK 1.6 billion from national co-financing, it de facto takes CZK 4.8 billion from the rural development programme to rural development. The second amendment concerns the expenditure of a specific indicator of strengthening expenditure on water management measures, including an increase of CZK 1 billion. Support for the water development programme in the Czech Republic, I believe, is an absolute priority both in terms of ensuring sufficient drinking water for the population, as well as protection against floods and drought. Here I would like to point out that, between 2015 and 2019, when drought hit our territory, this is a period, the support for water infrastructure development programmes has become a clear priority. [[When?]] This was also in line with approved funds in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, which were always around CZK 3.5 to 4 billion. The current draft state budget for the water economy indicator in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture is completely inadequate and will endanger or completely stop the implementation of the necessary measures in the development of strategic water management infrastructure. It is necessary to make it quite clear that the proposed budget will not cover the already approved multiannual subsidy actions for which a decision to grant a subsidy has already been made on the basis of medium-term prospects. The areas that need to be financially strengthened are as follows. This is a continuation of support for the construction of water reservoirs, strategic water reservoirs such as Vlachovice, Kryry, Senomaty and Šanov, with a sum of 300 million crowns. These are government-approved measures financed through subsidy programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture's programme funding. Supporting the development of water infrastructure in cities and municipalities affected by drought. It is also a connection of water systems, which will allow the transport of water from areas sufficiently secure to areas of deficit, including for example Frýdlantska, which will also be affected by the problem of groundwater in connection with the continuation of mining in the Turów mine. The subsidy programme is also in the programme financing of the Ministry of Finance. So many of my proposals to strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture budget chapter by CZK 2 billion. Once again, I stress that the amendments are led under number 503. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u24	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Josef Kott is the next person to make his declaration in a detailed debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u25	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to make this amendment, which is led as House Document 500, and I have tabled it together with my colleague Ryba and Kukla. This is a strengthening of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, where the costs of the forestry support indicator are increased by CZK 30 million, while at the same time in Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, the expenditure of the non-profit support indicator is reduced by CZK 30 million. Very short justification. Support for the restoration of forests after barking calamity is essential for the restoration and stabilisation of forests in the Czech Republic. The government promised that the restoration of the forest, water retention and environmental protection would be its priority. The original draft state budget, as prepared by the previous government under the direction of Minister Toman, counted on support for forestry with an amount of CZK 330 million higher and the current recommended amount is CZK 3 583 000 000. I believe that by reducing the resources aimed primarily at the restoration of our forests after barking calamity, it will have a negative impact not only on the stabilisation of moisture conditions, but also on leisure activities associated with nature. The newly created support for which it is necessary to thank the Ministry of Agriculture, which is managed per unit of forest area, only addresses the self-restoration of the forest, because the subsidy programme, as it is designed, basically there are protective elements that limit the planting of the cultural forest itself. By maintaining a reasonable level of support, as set up and financed by the previous government, it helped not only private forest owners but also municipalities, which helped the small municipalities in particular. The reduction of financial support according to the rules set by the current government coalition will, in my opinion, damage not only the economy, but also the stability and quality of the environment in the areas most affected by bark sludge in previous years. [[10.10 hours]] And since I am a representative of the Highlands, I would like to add a view of the funding from the Highlands as such. During the past management of the region and from the position of the regional council, funds were earmarked to support private owners who were significantly affected by the bark calamity. I am aware that this has largely been taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture. However, I believe that, given that no funds were found in the budget of the Vysočina Region to help small forest owners. And it needs to be said that actually Vysočina Region as such solves completely different problems now, because it has deposited all of its funds into one account and it is now blocked, so future funds will probably not be clearly and simply used, so for this reason I would like to ask for at least a little support from the state budget. I would like to ask not only for forest owners but also for all those who are moving in those woods to support my amendment. And I will take advantage of the possibilities, and I would also like to ask you to support the amendment that Mrs Jana Vildumetzová has put into the system, because she has described it in detail here, and I also believe that volunteer firefighters, professional firefighters, not only in the case of covid, but also now they are ready and helping in this situation, so any reduction in funds for their activities I think is wrong and that they deserve not only our admiration but also the funds to be able to carry out their work as they do so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u26	Thank you, too. Mrs Karla Maříková is the next person to submit to a detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u27	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is read in the system as House document 381. In my amendment in Chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health, I am increasing the expenditure of the specific indicator Research and Development in Health by CZK 500 million and reducing the expenditure of the indicator in the budget of the European Union by that amount. Research spending in the Czech Republic is still very low and private companies even spend more money on research than the state. Without long-term investment in quality development and research, it is not possible to achieve competitiveness, or compatibility, comparability and ability equivalent to cooperation with high-end research, whether at European or global level. The research support system in the Czech Republic often does not create ideal conditions to produce results easily applicable in practice. State aid plays an essential role in the development of research and development. Science and research are fundamental civilizational competences and are designed to support society and man in all situations, especially in crisis situations. For these reasons, I propose to increase the said expenditure for science and research, while at the same time I believe that membership of the European Union for us citizens of the Czech Republic, especially in recent years, does not provide such benefits as would offset the costs of this membership, whether direct, visible or indirect costs, including limiting decision-making powers. And we certainly do not live as well in the European Union as we were promised before joining the European Union. We need to reconsider our relationship with this organisation and one of the clear signals of the need for change is the reduction of the contributions to the European Union budget by CZK 500 million, as I propose. Since I do not see my colleague Radek Koten here, who is to follow me, but I have information that he has abstained from the meeting, I would like to sign up for this House document 479, in which my colleague proposes an increase in expenditure in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior by a specific indicator of the expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic, where CZK 80 million is to be increased by CZK 501 Plata. In Chapter 314, my colleague at the Ministry of the Interior proposes to increase the costs of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic by CZK 20 million, they should also travel to salaries, and in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, in a specific indicator, he proposes to increase the expenditure of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic by CZK 100 million in undergrouping the acquisition of long-term tangible assets. On the contrary, it reduces the expenditure of the Ministry of the Interior in a specific indicator The expenditure associated with the performance of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union by CZK 100 million and in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior in a specific indicator Expenditure on the security of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organisational components of the State reduces expenditure by CZK 100 million for non-investment transfers of non-profit and similar organisations. Instead of excessive spending on the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, with the European Union becoming a project that has more negative for the Czech Republic and its citizens than benefits in recent years, my colleague proposes to use these funds to increase the safety of Czech citizens, in the way that members of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps have exported a fall in their income, which is due to the jumping price increase of consumer products and also an increase in energy prices. This is becoming a problem especially for a group of workers who have fixed spreadsheets, they have very limited opportunities to achieve an increase and a practically excluded possibility of a different earnings. Therefore, the problem needs to be dealt with urgently, for example by intervening in the state budget. Stabilization of their salary relative to inflation will ensure a lower risk of their mass departures into the private sector, thus contributing to maintaining the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. The funds in the region, if invested in ensuring our security, are one of the best invested. Furthermore, as I said, my colleague reduces the allocation of the budget of the Ministry of the Interior chapter to non-investment transfers of non-profit and similar organisations by CZK 100 million. The aim is to avoid spending funds outside the budget of the Ministry of the Interior to private organisations. On the contrary, it is proposed a very necessary matter, i.e. an increase in the part of the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, from which the Fire Rescue Corps is financed, which increases by CZK 100 million the amount of funds earmarked for the acquisition of long-term tangible assets. The basis of the work of the Fire Rescue Corps is, among other things, a high-rise technique. In practice, there are repeated problems with its functioning and this needs to be resolved as soon as possible before human disasters can be avoided. Citizens of the Czech Republic rely on the The fire department needs to have adequate resources for their activities. So I would ask you at third reading to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u28	Thank you, Madame. At this point, I would like to read another apology. It is Mr Josef Flek, who apologizes from today between 11.30 and midnight for the rest of the negotiations, for family reasons. The honourable Member has announced that Mr Radek Koten is not present, but will still be included in the list, and then, if so... because I have registered that you have read his possible amendments. The next person who is logged in is Mrs Marie Pošarová - she is not, too, well. So at this point, Mr Vladimír Zlínský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u29	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues, I am signing up for my amendment, which is read in the system as House press 552. [[correct document]] Justification: the purpose of the amendment is to reduce the contributions to the budget of the European Union by CZK 5 billion and to leave these funds to deal with crisis situations and civil protection of the population in the Czech Republic. [[10.20 hours]] At present, economic, political, security and health instability I consider it necessary to propose the transfer of a substantial part of the funds from the contributions to the common budget of the European Union to the preparation of our society for crisis situations, focusing on material crisis equipment, as well as on the teaching and training of the population to be able to deal effectively with these situations, including children and young people. In the past, not only in our country, but also worldwide, the belief that history had ended, and stability, and the smooth progression of mankind to a better tomorrow is more or less guaranteed permanently, without confirmation of the past history. Somehow it was forgotten that this development was unconnected, when the upheavals were followed by slumps and further progressions. Likewise, the time intervals between individual increases and decreases are unconnected and therefore difficult to predict. Unfortunately, complex companies, which have multiple links between their elements and other systems, are extremely sensitive to these crises because of the domino effect. brát us take this multiple crisis as an opportunity to activate our entire society's capabilities in view of the challenges of the future, which will be very difficult, but it is precisely from the successful solution to this issue that another social and scientific-technical shift will result in our ideally confused and in the circle of irrationality of the wandering society. We must take into account and adapt all our thinking, including our preparation for this fact, including the draft budget, to the possible temporary simplification and efficiency of these relations and ties, and thus the complexity of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u30	Thank you, too. The technical thing happened to me here that I was a speaker or a Member who was not here, so I deleted it, and it happened to me that I probably clicked twice, so I hereby apologize to Mr Oldřich Černý and ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u31	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Minister of Agriculture, honourable citizens of the Czech Republic, let me introduce you to my two amendments. The first amendment has the number of House document 541 and I will introduce you to its justification. I propose to transfer CZK 100 million from budget chapter 307 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture. Specifically, it is a proposal to reduce the volume of the expenditure indicator of contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad from the proposed 1 514 816 458 to 1 414 816 458 CZK. I'm sorry. The Czech Republic cooperates with nearly 500 international organizations, but the sense of some is very dubious and does not bring anything to the Czech Republic. In 2019, the Supreme Audit Office carried out a control action of 19/05 entitled State funds provided to international organisations and other related expenditure. The report on this audit action shows that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which coordinates cooperation with international organisations, does not have sufficient information to assess their benefits. The report states, among other things, that the SAO has assessed that the prerequisites for the effective provision of funds to international organisations have not been met. The measures provided for by the Government of the Czech Republic, which, inter alia, monitored the achievement of savings, were not properly met. At the time of the ongoing weighted economic and social crisis as a result of the effects of the pandemic and the associated increased government spending, it is necessary to focus firmly on these budget items, which do not benefit the Czech Republic and its citizens. For this reason, I propose that the planned expenditure be reduced to international organisations abroad, thereby exerting pressure on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to revise the need and benefits of certain related payments or memberships. The proposed reduction is about one fifth optional, i.e. voluntary payments. I propose to transfer the amount of CZK 100 million as follows: it will be transferred to the expenditure indicator of Chapter 329 The Ministry of Agriculture, support for the agrarian sector, subsidy to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, with an amount of 50 million applicable to the grant programmes Aid for Apiculture and an amount of 50 million being transferred to the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy of the SOT of Bees 2021. The increase in funding should mainly serve to support new start-up beekeepers and support for existing beekeepers who are interested in expanding their colonies and effectively combating bee diseases. Without bees, pollination is very complicated. Without additional support, there would be a reduction in production not only of fruit but also of honey. Moreover, there has been a loss of beekeepers lately. Furthermore, it would be appropriate to set up a national recovery programme to detect a very insidious disease - a plague of the bee fetus, which is very poorly recognized because the disease takes place in the early stages secretly. This programme has already been repeatedly requested. There are currently some 650 000 hives in the Czech Republic. Programmes could be set for a period of three years for which testing would be carried out, i.e. approximately 220,000 hives a year so that all colonies, plus newly formed colonies, can be checked during these three years. The State Veterinary Administration would also agree to this programme. My second amendment is House document 541, where I propose to transfer CZK 200 million from budget chapter 306 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to budget chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture. In particular, it is also a proposal to reduce the volume of the expenditure indicator for contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad. This amount will be transferred to the expenditure indicator of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, support for the agricultural sector, subsidy to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, with support for pig farmers, either individually or as a subsidy title, or urgently as compensation for the increase in energy prices in the current crisis situation in the energy market and following consumer protection against further increases. The breeding of pigs is going through a very difficult time. Although pork is still one of the most popular among domestic consumers, our consumption is about 42 kilos per person per year, while the average of the European Union is 32 kilos per person per year, its domestic production stagnates. Since the consumption of our citizens is barely 40 per cent covered by domestic production, pork imports from Poland and other countries such as Germany, Spain and Denmark, where drugs such as antibiotics and antimicrobials are proven to be more used. In the framework of the reform of the common agricultural policy, the financing has been considerably reduced to enterprises engaged in pig farming and subsidising production from a payment per hectare. In the near future, even with regard to the ever-increasing cost of compound feed, energy and labour, more than half of the pig farms are planning to end and possibly significantly reduce pig production. [[10.30 hours]] While the cost price of a pig, the cost price is now more than 35 kg per kg per pig in live weight, the purchase prices are less than 25 CZK. So far, breeders have in some cases been able to offset this loss at least partially by a relatively profitable plant production. However, due to the planned reduction of subsidies depending on the size of the company, it can be expected that larger farms will not be able to afford this practice in the future, because this would only mean further loss creation. The results in the quality of our Czech raw materials and in pig breeders are above average compared to foreign competition, as demonstrated by, for example, the investigation of the INTERPI international project. I therefore propose to increase the support of pig farmers in order to avoid even greater dependence of the Czech Republic on imports of pork from abroad and to support the production of quality Czech food. I am asking you to support these amendments in my third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u32	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mrs Marie Pošarová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u33	Thank you for the floor. honourable Members, I subscribe to my amendments to House document 391 and House document 392, where the explanatory notes are contained in the annex to the system. Now I would like to comment on House document 391, where in Chapter 306 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the sum of the indicators of expenditure changes in total from CZK 8 281 068 101 and is replaced by CZK 7 281 068 101 and the expenditure of the specific indicator The contributions to international organisations and donations to selected institutions abroad are reduced by CZK 1 billion. I would like to transfer this money to the Ministry of Regional Development, by an increase of 1 billion to CZK 29 576 464 059. As regards the justification: The Supreme Audit Office has repeatedly stated in the control of the long-term management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that for most of the appropriations and payments covered by the budget expenditure indicator Contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad, their contribution to the Czech state is completely undetectable and unknown and that the planned budget savings have not been achieved in the long term. According to the Supreme Audit Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has no overall overview of what international organizations the Czech Republic is actually working with, and that it also fails to fulfil the tasks arising from the relevant resolutions of the Czech Government in this context. At the same time, at the time of the current economic crisis and the threateningly growing deficit of the state budget, as well as the effects of the Coronavirus epidemic, there is no relevant reason for any foreign subjects to be given back to the debt that the Czech citizens will have to pay back in 2022. Much more important and important is the strong and targeted financial support of domestic citizens and domestic companies by this crisis affected and threatened. Therefore, I propose the transfer of CZK 1 billion from the budget indicator Contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad into the budget indicator of the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development - Subsidy to the State Investment Support Fund. This is a very important and necessary loan project for young spouses and families to acquire or reconstruct housing, which is currently a matter of paramount public interest in terms of support, birth rate and the sustainable future of our social systems. Given the limited size of the allocation of budgetary resources, it can, for the time being, participate in this project and make use of it only a very limited number of families and newlyweds. Demand significantly exceeds the offer. We therefore consider it necessary to take the first step of increasing the amount of funding in this budgetary indicator to roughly double the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u34	Thank you, Madame. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová is now reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u35	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'm not lucky with the Minister of Finance, but I can see that he's not here, unfortunately - maybe he's coming. I would like to sign up for the amendments. As I announced, they'll be touching firemen and policemen. Those that affect police officers are the amendment I apply to - 534 and 535. I would like to say that I am presenting this amendment together with my colleagues Jiří Mašek, Robert Králíček, Hubert Lang and Milan Brázdil. The first Amendment 534 concerns the salaries of police officers, where we propose an increase of CZK 500 million, and these expenses are reduced in the State Debt Service indicator. The amendment under number 535 - once again I, Mr Jiří Mašek, Robert králíček, Hubert Lang and Milan Brázdil - also concerns the salaries of police officers, where we propose an increase of CZK 1 billion and a reduction in the State Debt Service indicator for a specific indicator. The amendments that we are proposing with regard to firefighters are Amendment 452, which I propose together with Mr Drahoslav Ryba, Martin Kukla and Josef Kott, and this amendment concerns professional firefighters, where we demand that the amount be increased by CZK 200 million, it is for the purchase of tank-vehicle syringes, and for this amount to be taken, and there it will be, from the government's budget reserve. The next amendment is under number 455, which I, Mr Drahoslav Ryba, Martin Kukla and Josef Kott again submit, and there is an increase of CZK 100 million, and this is for voluntary firefighters, just once again for the purchase of transport cars, tank-vehicle syringes and repairs of firefighters' arsenals, and this amount would be taken into account in expenditure related to the performance of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU, where it increased by CZK 300 million in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior. Another amendment under number 456 - once again I, Mr Drahoslav Ryba, Martin Kukla, Josef Kott, and it is an increase of CZK 200 million, it is again for professional firefighters and that this amount should be taken in a specific indicator in the government budget reserve. Once again, this amendment concerns the voluntary firefighters, the purchase of tank-vehicle syringes, transport cars and the reconstruction of firefighters' armory. The amendment under number 457, which concerns professional firefighters, the announced purchase of high-rise equipment, where we demand an increase of CZK 100 million, and again this amount to be taken in a specific indicator of the expenditure associated with the performance of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU. The next amendment is under number 458 - once again the same ones, I will not repeat it with the other ones, all the amendments that we are proposing and affecting professional volunteer firefighters, I am presenting with Mr Drahoslav Ryba, Martin Kukla and Josef Kott, so I will no longer read it. The 458 affects professional firefighters and it is for the purchase of high-rise technology, so we demand an increase of CZK 200 million and we want these CZK 200 million to be reduced to the Czech Presidency in the EU Council. [[10.40 hours]] Another amendment with the same petitioners is under number 530 and affects professional firefighters, where we demand an increase of CZK 200 million, and to reduce this amount in a specific indicator of the State Debt Service. And it's again for the purchase of tank-vehicle syringes. Another amendment is tabled under number 531, which concerns voluntary firefighters and is an increase of CZK 200 million. It is again for fire trucks and for reconstruction of firemen's arsenals and we want this amount to be taken in a specific indicator of the State Debt Service in the same amount, which is CZK 200 million. We are submitting another amendment under number 532. It affects both voluntary and professional firefighters together, where we demand an increase of CZK 600 million for professional firefighters and CZK 200 million for voluntary firefighters, and it repeats itself, we want these funds to be taken into the service of state debt, and it is the same - for professional firefighters to buy tank-vehicle syringes and for the purchase of high-rise equipment, and for voluntary firefighters it is for the purchase of tank-vehicle syringes, transport cars and reconstruction of firefighters. Another amendment is tabled under number 533, which affects professional firefighters, where we demand an increase of CZK 400 million and we want it to be reduced in the State Debt Service indicator of the same amount of CZK 400 million, and it is for the purchase of 46 units of tank-vehicle syringes for professional firefighters. The next amendment is presented under number 536, which is for the sum of CZK 100 million, touches voluntary firefighters, again on truck syringes, transport cars and reconstruction of firefighters' armory, and we want this amount to be taken from the government's budget reserve. And the last amendment we are putting under number 537, is also to CZK 100 million, it affects professional firefighters, it is to buy height technology and we want this amount to be reduced within the government's budgetary reserve. I still don't see the Minister of Finance. I wanted to say that we have tabled many amendments to those firefighters, where we want these funds either to be taken from the government's budget reserve where they will still be, or from the government debt service, or to reduce the amount under the Presidency. I believe that he will surely find his way there, and he will support some of these amendments for firefighters and policemen as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u36	Thank you, too. Mr. Vice-President Havlíček is now registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, because I have already spoken here. I hereby apply to Amendments 502, 504 and 547. These are the designs from the workshop of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, respectively with ties to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and with ties to the Ministry of Transport. I introduced them this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u38	I thank you, and we will now proceed and continue to be properly enrolled in the debate. Mr Radovan Vích will now appear and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members of the government, I will be quite brief, because there are many other colleagues behind me. I would like to present here in brief my amendment, which is inserted into the system under number 558, which generally refers to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence, from which I want to reduce the amount of 4 875 041,000 in favour of the same chapter, namely the payment of American outage helicopters, and 497 569,000 for foreign operations in Afghanistan, Mali, Burkina-Faso, Niger, Mauritania and Chad, and as I have already said, in favour of the same chapter, but by increasing other spending circuits, namely 1 346 231,000 for modernisation of existing helicopters, which are in our army, and the rest, 3 528 810 000 to supplement the necessary armaments, techniques and materials for the case of mobilisation. All this with regard to the report on securing the defence of the Czech Republic from 2020, which is not a public document, and also in view of the current crisis in Ukraine. This proposal strengthens the military's defence capabilities and supports the domestic arms industry. The detailed reasoning is the content of this amendment, which, as I said, is inserted in the system under number 558. I hereby plead with him and ask you for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Jiří Kobza, and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers - Madam Secretary - are not here. I would still like to address the members of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union. Dear brothers and sisters, I come before you after all the hundreds of millions and billions that have flown here with a request to move a sum that is so small that many of you may not even notice it. But for that reason, I think it's much more serious. The Czech Freedom Warriors Union received a public contribution of 6 million on a regular basis, as well as the legionary community. This contribution was reduced by 80 per cent in the draft budget for 2022, to just 1 million. And since the total amount of the state budget is indeed a minimum amount, it is highly likely that the decision was political and not economic. The Czech Union of Freedom Fighters carries out important activities. He cares about the graves of the fallen of World War II, keeps heroes' monuments, conducts educational activities, publishes periodicals, and thousands of its members try to contribute and preserve the historical memory of the nation in the field of World War II, and in particular the liberation of Czechoslovakia from the German occupation. His activity is irreplaceable, and since budget cuts would essentially jeopardise his very existence, I would like to make a request to you to increase this item by CZK 5 million, from CZK 1 million to CZK 6 million, within the framework of the specification of social expenses, compensation for non-profit and similar organisations for the expenditure item of the Czech Freedom Warriors' Union, see Annex No.9 of the draft State Budget Act for 2022, and the expenditure of the specific indicator The proceeds to the European Union budget are reduced by CZK 5 million, which means the amount - please listen - CZK 60 billion is replaced by CZK 59 995 000 000. This is a reduction which is such that it will actually disappear under the influence of inflation, which is waiting for us this year and which the State Bank has already estimated at up to 10 percent, which means that from 60 billion it should essentially fall only on that inflation. [[10.50 hours]] I just want to sign up for the amendment, which I am proposing under number 372 in the system. I ask the Government and you to support this proposal, because however certain proposals, certain relationships, certain political views may be different, one thing is quite clear. The activities of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union are irreplaceable and deserve our support because it is long-term, conceptual and, as I say, it affects thousands of honest people who work there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So now in the debate, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will speak. Ambassador Klára Dostálová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Hello. Members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to sign up for our joint amendments. These are joint amendments to culture. I co-submit them with my colleague, Ondřej Babka. The total amount relating to culture will be around CZK 900 million. I don't want to read the individual designs from where they're going to be taken. I would sum up: they will be taken from the government's budget reserve, from the government's debt service, and then from the chapter Expenditure related to the performance of the Presidency of the Czech Republic of the Council of the European Union at the Ministry of Interior. Now, therefore, on individual amendments. I would now like to introduce you to House Document No 480. This is the chapter of the contribution organization established by the Ministry of Culture in the section Contribution to the operation of the contributory organizations, where we propose to increase the amount by CZK 50 million. The reason for this is that energy prices are rising rapidly, and this is bound to reflect on the management of these contributory organisations. If we don't raise this chapter, there may be a reduction in the rewards already of very low-rewarded workers in culture. This applies to contribution organizations such as the National Gallery, the Moravian Gallery Brno, the Lidice Memorial or the National Theatre. Another amendment to which I would like to sign up is under the House press 512 and concerns the expense indicator... excuse me, the specific indicator of the Contribution Organization established by the Ministry of Culture, part of the National Cultural Treasure and Heritage Programme, where we propose to increase the amount by CZK 350 million. This investment programme is set up with the aim of reconstruction, construction, equipment and modernisation of 27 buildings. The program has seven subroutines, its participants are state contribution organizations such as the National Heritage Institute, National Theatre, National Museum, National Technical Museum and others. Originally proposed budget of CZK 300 million significantly threatens the modernisation and development of the above-mentioned organizations, I can mention the planned reconstruction of the New Stage of the National Theatre. The next House document I want to sign up for with my colleague Babka is House document number 517. It concerns the chapter Cultural services, the promotion of live art, namely the part of the State Support Programme for Professional Theatre and Permanent Professional Symphony Orchestras and Choirs, where we propose to increase the amount by CZK 200 million. The reason is quite clear. Given that the state has resigned to support live art, theatres and philharmonics after the time of the covid, and the compensation it has set is not sufficient, we believe that the originally proposed amount will lead to the closure and liquidation of these organizations, because this programme is a systemic solution of state participation in the development of professional theatres, professional symphonic orchestras and choirs in the Czech Republic and is based on the principle of co-financing. This means that the burden shifts to the founders of these facilities, of course they are cities and municipalities and for them this may be a major problem. Just to get an idea of which facilities it concerns, it is the Municipal Theatre Kladno, Janáček Theatre Brno, Teplice Philharmonic, Pilsen Philharmonic or Horácké Theatre in Jihlava. The next House document I want to subscribe to is House document number 518. It is a specific indicator of cultural service, the promotion of live art, part of Cultural Activities. There we propose to increase the amount by CZK 50 million. This support is focused on unorganized, i.e. non-state institutions that organize large festivals, major dance and theatre productions, exhibitions, seminars with international participation. It concerns both theatre, dance, musical and visual arts. Strangulation in this area can cause many so far successful and active founders, owners of these devices will have to stop, and I think it's a great shame. The next House document I want to subscribe to is House document number 519. This amendment concerns the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments and public museum services. It is a program to restore and save cultural monuments. Here we propose an increase of CZK 150 million. The aim is that this programme, which will not be announced this year in the framework of the proposed budget, is to ensure that it is announced and can be repaired in the regions. Just so we know what monuments are involved, so the facade of the castle in Kosova Hora was repaired in several stages, the portal with mosaic decoration of the church of svatý Šimon a Juda in Slaný Dolín was restored, they were stabilized, the tombstones of Jewish cemeteries were restored throughout the country in various municipalities, the fortress in Hvožďany and so on, and so on and so on. I consider this programme to be very important, especially for owners of cultural monuments that are not State-owned or not State-owned. Another House document that I would like to subscribe to is House document 514. It also concerns the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments, public services, museums and it is part of the programme of protection and care for cultural goods, where we propose to increase the amount by CZK 20 million. The programme now provides grants for projects aimed at fulfilling the standard, the availability of selected public services, which is the provision of information on collections managed by providers of standardised public services. This programme should allocate funds to support exhibition and exhibition projects of museums and galleries which cannot be provided from the current operating and activity budget, as well as to making exposure and exhibitions available to persons with reduced mobility. In particular, these are projects involving the Ministry of Culture, annual activities and projects with a multiannual framework. Another amendment to which I would like to sign up is House document 516. It concerns a specific indicator Supporting the development and restoration of the material-technical base of regional cultural facilities, where we propose to increase the amount by CZK 80 million. These funds should at least partially satisfy the requirements included in the National Investment Plan. This means partially implementing large-scale projects. Now you all must have noticed the concert hall in Ostrava. Such projects shall be financed under this Chapter. [[11.00 hours]] The last, albeit small request, is House document number 515. It concerns the State cinematographic fund, where we propose to increase expenditure on its activities by CZK 3 million. The reason for this is the increased price of energy and also the need for a fund to increase by one worker, whose main task will be to prepare draw from the National Recovery Plan, prepare the transformation of the fund and legislation associated with this. We consider this expenditure to be necessary precisely because, in the National Recovery Programme, there is a large amount of money for culture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u44	I, too, thank you, Madame, for your contribution. Mrs Klára Dostálová will now appear, Mrs Iveta Štefanová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u45	Mr President, Minister, members of the government, colleagues, thank you very much for the floor. I'd like to sign up for press 498. Under this number, there are three proposals for amending the budget. So allow me to justify them briefly. Of course, and it has fallen many times today, I very much support the Government's actions in Ukraine, but it has also been said here, it is necessary to really think about the Czech Republic, the citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm sure you know that my proposals will be directed towards the Ministry of Regional Development. This Ministry is mainly an investment department, providing investments especially for small municipalities and cities. Since there are many mayors and mayors in the Chamber of Deputies, I believe that I will find hearings with them as well, because these are grant titles, such as support for local communications, where there is a subsidy title for municipalities up to 3 000 inhabitants as well as for municipalities up to 10,000 inhabitants. Indeed, these municipalities have small budgets to pursue some major investment actions. Therefore, this subsidy title is of enormous interest in the Ministry. Indeed, it is enormous, because according to my estimates, as I know from the past, there are overhangs of demand over CZK 3 billion only on this particular subsidy program. I believe that there will be resources to help prepared projects, so that mayors do not have projects under a building permit in a drawer long enough for us to work together to accommodate the mayors and implement these projects on their territory. The second proposal leads again to another grant title, where the demand overhang is perhaps even greater than that of local roads, and this is the reconstruction of public buildings. Indeed, the deficit within those small municipalities or municipalities of up to 10,000 inhabitants is large. These municipalities need to be aware that they also have big problems with the drawing of European funds. They're really very dependent on national grant programs. Within the Public Buildings program there are kindergartens, schools, firehouses, dining rooms, municipal offices, cultural houses, just everything you can imagine in the municipalities. Here, too, I propose to strengthen this grant title by 2.6 billion so that all the projects prepared can be implemented. The last proposal, which is under number 498, concerns housing. I believe that even in view of the migration crisis that is here, the absolute priority should indeed be to help municipalities that have allocated their land for housing, the so-called technical infrastructure, or engineering networks. This is not a large subsidy program, so far the demand is always around CZK 300, 400 million. That is why I propose here to strengthen this subsidy programme by 180 million out of state debt. I believe that the municipalities that are ready for housing construction should be a priority for all of us, so that we can help them with the housing construction. So much from me to these proposals in the state budget. I believe that really before the Czech Republic, before the Minister, there will really be no easy task, because this year the European programmes, the National Recovery Plan, will be launched, are a problem with VAT. I would like to thank here that the Minister actually and with a part of the opposition is already dealing with this in specific programmes, but of course all of this will call for resources and needs, and we need to think about this as well as in the preparation of a state budget amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u46	I also thank the Member. Mrs Iveta Štefanová will now appear, Mr Jan Richter will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the amendment which is being held in the system as House Document No 528. It relates to budget chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and budget chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health. For so-called supported sources of energy, funds of CZK 19 billion are earmarked in the budget for 2022. It is an exaggeration and more than a billion higher than the Ministry of Health's budget. We do not need to support solar power plants to such an excessive extent. It is not necessary, it is not necessary or beneficial for citizens of the Czech Republic. Moreover, it is outrageous that many solar power plants are now standing directly on arable land, which we cannot use to ensure the Czech Republic's food self-sufficiency. For citizens of the Czech Republic, we need less funds to go to the accounts of solar barons and more to standard health care. That is why this proposal aims to return the necessary funds to the Ministry of Health's budget. According to this amendment, the Government Bill on the State Budget is amended as follows: 1. In the budget chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, expenditure is reduced by a specific indicator of expenditure called Subsidy for renewable energy sources by CZK 100 million. 2. In the budget chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health, expenditure is increased by a specific indicator of expenditure called Expenditure on State Administration in the volume of staff salaries and national salaries for the work done by county health stations, by CZK 65 million. 3. In budget chapter 335 the Ministry of Health increases expenditure by increasing the specific indicator of expenditure called Bed Care by 35 million crowns. The detailed reasoning is part of this House document. Thank you for your attention and please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u48	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Jan Richter will now appear and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. [[Ambassador Richter is not in the room.]] Is Mr. Jan Richter here? If it is not, I will ask Mr Zdeněk Kettner to prepare Mr Jakub Janda. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u49	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am applying to two House documents. The first is House Document No 389. They're closely related to each other, depending on each other. In document 389, I propose a comparison of other non-investment expenditures for primary schools. The reason is simple. This part of the school budget serves primarily to buy textbooks, teaching aids, for example, but also to finance the first fourteen days of sickness. In the last school year, the funds were completely inadequate. Directors were forced mostly to supplement this fund, move funds and increase by up to two thirds, supplementing it from a chapter intended for the salaries of pedagogical and non-teaching staff. In fact, my proposal only makes up for the condition he was in last school year. Like I said, last school year wasn't enough. That means we're putting the principals into an insolvable problem. So that's my proposal, document 389. [[11.10 hours]] House document 390, where I request an increase in the budget for non-teaching workers. They do not count on an increase in their salaries, and we have to say that non-teaching workers are necessary to ensure the operation of schools, the school simply does not have to do without them, and the tariff part of the salary is quite often under the so-called guaranteed salary, and in some cases it is also below the minimum wage. This means that directors, in order to keep these necessary workers from having the need to go to the employment office, must move these funds again from the amount intended for teaching staff. As a result, the directors will actually be forced to reach into the resources of the teaching staff twice, which I think will have disastrous consequences for the future of our education as regards the quality of teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u50	Thank you, too. Mr Jakub Janda will now appear, Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. I come before you to justify Amendment 416 to the Government Bill on the State Budget, which I will then apply to at the end of my speech. I wanted to be as brief as possible, but I'll elaborate a little bit, but don't worry, it'll be quite short. For years, I have repeatedly argued against the provision of millions from the state budget for the Czech Union of Fighters for Freedom, and I warned that this association, under its current leadership, turned into a pofiderní organization that embezzled its original goals. My appeals, however, came across the dams of the then reddish government majority. Of course, the million crowns, which is intended for them from the state budget this year, are actually a drop in the sea of public finances, but each crown and one million counts. Moreover, it is a symbolic plane in particular. That is why, together with other colleagues, I am presenting this amendment, which should finally cut off the Czech Union of Freedom Fighters from State Money. I will briefly repeat the reasons why the union led by Jaroslav Vodička should not receive a crown from taxpayers. For one thing, in recent years, he has deviated from his original mission and, among other things, has embezzled from his name. There would be a lot of examples. Just to remind you: the outbursts of some members of the NATO Union, the disparaging of the Terezín Trish or the medal for our former communist colleague Ondráček, who intervened with Pendrek in 1989 against demonstrators. Not to mention the problematic past of the President of the Union of Comrade Vodička, a former, even double member of the KSČ, who entered again after exclusion for standardisation. The House has repeatedly been reminded of serious and numerous errors in the management of the Union, which in recent years have been discovered by the auditors of the Ministry of Finance. It was a total of CZK 900 000, of which the Union returned a large part, but under normal circumstances such missteps should not occur at all, not to mention the very high overhead costs of the management of the Union. So to sum it up, not another penny of public money to this dubious society. If anything, let us support an organization that really defends the principles of freedom and democracy. Therefore, together with other colleagues, I propose that the million saved be distributed as follows: half the amount for the Platform of European Memory and Conscience, after 250,000 for the Association for the Conservation of the Links of the Czech Resistance and for the association Without Communists.cz. There we have disproportionately greater assurance that taxpayers' public money will be treated far more reasonably. I believe that you will support this amendment at third reading. I hereby declare the amendment, which is recorded under 416 in the system, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u52	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Karel Rais will now appear, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u53	Thank you, Mr President, fellow ministers, colleagues, allow me to sign up to Amendment 544, which is stored in the information system. My amendment to the Government Bill on the State Budget is as follows: I propose that in Chapter 333, which is MŠMT, expenditure from the aggregate indicator Total expenditure and specific indicator Other expenditure on the security of the Ministry's tasks by CZK 15 million and in Chapter 396 State debt will reduce expenditure from the aggregate indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator of the State Debt Service by the amount of CZK 15 million. What's going on? The required funds should be used for the educational and research activities of the Terezín Genocide Study Centre. This project will be implemented in the building of the Wiesnerův House in the Terezín City Monument Reserve, which was rescued and reconstructed between 2018 and 2021 with the support of the European Regional Development Fund. There will be an international exhibition in cooperation with renowned foreign memorial institutions and memorials of victims of genocide in the world and of course it will be used for educational and research programs for pupils and students of primary, secondary and university schools in the Czech Republic in order to increase the effectiveness of the prevention of extremism, anti-Semitism and genocidal violence. The project promoter and realizer of this project will be the Research Centre for the Archaeology of Evil, a non-profit organization that has long been engaged not only in collecting knowledge about the history and causes of genocide, but also in monitoring mass violence projects and denying genocide in the present world, such as Armenia and Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u54	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Richard Brabec will now appear, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, I would like to briefly justify the two amendments that are in the system under House document 560. Both concern Chapter 315, i.e. the Chapter of the Ministry of Environment. In the first case, I propose to increase expenditure on the overall indicator Total expenditure on the specific indicator Nature and Landscape Protection, Nature and Landscape Improvements, Landscape Care Programme, CZK 150 million and in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior to reduce expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure and specific indicator Expenditure related to the performance of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union by CZK 150 million. Brief justification: For the year 2022, funds of CZK 150 million are earmarked for financing the Landscape Care measures, with a halving of the allocation of funds under the programme year-on-year. I find such a sharp cut in the means of the programme, which is one of the best-functioning measures in nature and landscape conservation, unacceptable and very harmful for nature conservation. This programme includes hundreds of smaller but very needed activities in the landscape, which are highly valued throughout the company. I therefore propose to strengthen the Landscape Care programme by 150 million crowns. I propose to increase expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure, the specific indicator Climate and Air Protection and the New Green Savings Programme by CZK 350 million, and in Chapter 396 State Debt, the expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator on the State Debt Service by CZK 350 million. [[11.20 hours]] Explanation on this point: The New Green Savings Programme is rightly considered by experts to be the best energy reduction and renewable resource support programme, and I do not have to stress to anyone at this time that this priority, namely reducing energy consumption, is even more important than ever. Moreover, the program is highly pro-growth for businessmen, small and medium-sized domestic companies, which carry out these projects in the vast majority of cases. For the year 2022, total expenditure is expected only to amount to CZK 113 573 870, which is absolutely insufficient due to the enormous interest in this programme. Source of the programme The new green savings are the share of the proceeds of the auctions of emission allowances under the European ETS system, which is rising significantly due to the rising price of the emission allowances, so even in this case, I believe it is absolutely sufficient to justify that this programme should be increased from 150 million by at least 350 million to CZK 500 million initially planned. Thank you for your attention and I will be glad if you can support the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear and Mr Robert králíček will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u57	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will read here three amendments, which you will find under 465, 466 and 467. Before that, I'd like to make two comments because it has something to do with it. The first is that it seems a little unfair to me when those big government amendments touch the Government's budget reserve to the point of exhausting it so that the other amendments become unvoted. I have already said this to the Committee on Budgets, when I have to say fair and squarely that the Minister has announced in advance that it will be of the nearly 3 billion that are there, 1.9 drawing on the amendments, but within the next few days there is a proposal for another billion. And at that point, we're getting into such an awkward situation that we're reading there, whether in the Committee on Budgets or in the system, amendments that are actually going to become unvoteable by this system. I apologize, but that does not feel right to me, regardless of the specific situation, and that we, as opposition, will support some of the coalition's proposals, unlike a coalition that has not supported a single opposition proposal so far. What could be the options of the solution? Either let the amendments vote in the order as they were loaded, because that puts the government in line and the government has the support, so the rest of it actually, I don't know how many of these amendments go into the government's budget reserve, makes it unvoting. While if you vote in that order, you don't vote, you'll be against it, against the amendments...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u58	Ambassador, I am sorry, but we are not discussing the voting procedure for the amendments. I will ask you to make amendments and duly justify them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u59	Yes, I'll get to that. It has something to do with this, because I am then reading a proposal that I will want the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a position on this, even if negative, by voting. But by adding a proposal here that can become unvoteable, then if the situation changes in six months, my words will come up and one of those amendments will come true, which I will introduce here in a moment, and that at that point, there was no vote, and everyone will say that if there had been a vote, it might have turned out differently. That's why I was talking about it here. Otherwise, as far as the budget is concerned, a second remark does not count on some things. One of them was mentioned here by Vice-President Havlíček - a billion and a half for postal services. And the other thing that doesn't count on, and that's my first amendment, in other words, the budget is cut from this angle, it doesn't count on expenses that come out of the law. This is one of the proposals under the number 467, and it is the transfer of CZK 250 million from the chapter of the Government Budget Reserve to the chapter of the Ministry of Justice, Expenditures - the judicial part, and it concerns the issue of stopping futile bailouts, which we have accepted by the entire Chamber of Deputies, when this change in the amendment to the Enforcement Order applies from 1 January this year, and the Ministry will need money for the basic reward for the executioners, which is CZK 1,050 plus VAT, because those executions will be stopped by law. Unlike the graceful summer, there is no waiting for anything, no one is giving any challenge, they will just stop automatically - after the creditor does not pay on the basis of the call for an advance, it stops automatically. And at that point, the funds will be missing, and in six months, we'll definitely be back here in a few months. I said that on the budget committee, and I'm going to say it here: while in the gracious summer, for example at the Transport Company, some 10,000, 12,000 executions have stopped when it comes to this automatic stopping, so only this one enterprise will do it with some 60,000, 70,000 executions. That means it's a useful, meaningful thing, we've been dealing with it as a load of unenforceable executions along with a small principal for years, but it's gonna take a lot of resources here, because they're gonna need it anyway. The other two amendments, both of them reaching into the government's budget reserve, which is why I explained at the beginning that I would like this to be voted on, and not to make it unvoteable, because I do not know the real opinion of the Chamber of Deputies, so one is under number 465 - moving to the Czech Telecommunications Office 25 357 095 CZK, that is, a return to the original amount that the previous government envisaged. The reasoning is also clear. While this does not come directly from the law that there would have been any additional costs as in the previous case of stopping futile executions, it is considered that since 1 January, among other things, it has taken effect from the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, which increases consumer protection, for example in the form of protection against the annoying telemarketing. We've all approved that here, too. You know, instead of opt-out, opt-in, that means when someone calls you with an offer, they can't really, you have to actively give permission to be called. In other words, this will mean new obligations for the Czech Telecommunications Authority, greater protection, expansion of these things. In the past, I have even proposed repeatedly increasing the budgets of the Czech Television, the ER and the financial arbitrary. Here, paradoxically, there is a budget reduction at a time when they have and will have more responsibilities. And from the same point of view, under the number 466 there is an amendment that concerns the EROs, where I propose again from the government's budgetary reserve, because I did not count on the changes that have been reported here to Chapter 349 of the Energy Regulatory Office of CZK 14 660 902 - again the amount that compares it to at least the original proposal proposed by the original government. The reason is clear again. It's not like I made it up to bother you here, but it's because from 1. 1. 2022 is the amendment to the Energy Act, which completely changes the situation in our country. [[11.30 hours]] You know the term "energy scumbags," the fight against energy scumbags. It is once again a standard that we have all agreed on across here, and among other things it says and enters, actually defines an energy intermediary that will have to register at the Energy Regulatory Authority - a whole new obligation. So the moment we're at 1. 1. - and some part of that bill will apply from 1. 7. - we give this office greater competence, we extend the areas that it will deal with, but at the same time, we take funds from them. They are no longer in progress at this point, and I remind them of the huge amount of incentives they have in relation to the collapses of Bohemia Energy and so on, that means that we, on the other hand, should, in time, give the authorities - and with the ERU it applies twice - to add the resources at the moment when they are really overwhelmed by the way they deal with the DPI, the supplier of the last instance, how people are supposed to deal with the problems of transition from a failed company to a standard energy supplier, so these are all things that were not here a year ago. This means that it's an extra activity, and that's an extra activity from January 1st, so I'd like to make it very clear that the 14,660 000, which means returning to the original level, is, in my view, the minimum that these authorities will work. At this point, I'm going to mention it, and I'm going to say it again, probably in the third reading, like the financial arbiter, where the decline is also, but I didn't solve it here, because it was under the Ministry of Finance item, so there are inaction suits today, because the reaction of those authorities is too long and they stop fulfilling their role. So I'm gonna ask for your support on this one. Once again, numbers 465, 466, 467. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. A point of fact is made by the Minister. Are you reporting with a factual remark, Mr. Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u61	Thank you for the floor. For Mr Nacher, through you. I imagined that we would not play politics with others, at second and third reading, in the current situation. Mr Nacher wants us to vote on the amendments, so that he can beat us all over the head for a year if it comes to his words, but the situation is completely different. Either we support the money from the government's budget reserve for aid to refugees, humanitarian aid and the purchase of weapons, then there won't be any left over, and I don't want to talk about the content of these proposals and judge them factually, so why do we need a hundred unaccepted proposals if the money isn't there? To be able to say in a month, in two, in three, in four - look, they voted for it? But it is correct to say that we will decide either between the amendments tabled by the government and because of Vladimir Putin, and not the Czech Government and his aggression on Ukraine, or I will gladly admit a number of sensible amendments, which are not available at the moment. First of all. And secondly, I agree that there are some things missing. When I said it here, you guys who were preparing the last budget said, "That's not true, all the legal obligations in that budget were. So see if they were in the budget that's here in the Houses of the press 32, and then you can justifiably criticize us for being the money, the so-called mandatory or, in fact, the mandatorial that we've crossed it off. I'm sure we didn't do anything like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u62	Thank you. Another point of fact is made; it is registered, Mr Patrik Nacher. Before I give him my word, I'll read an apology. Today, from 12 o'clock to the end of the negotiations for family reasons, Mrs Marie Pošarová apologises. And now your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u63	Have a nice day again. Well, I guess the Minister didn't understand me very well about this. I do not criticize the fact that you put in those amendments which - as Alena Schillerová said here - we will support as opposition in the overwhelming majority. That's where they come from. Some of our colleagues had to redo the amendments to take it out of state debt. So if you took it out of the government's debt to those large items, then those items that aren't going for billions, but tens of millions -- and they're also definitely important -- they could stay there, that's what this is all about. The point is that the proposals should simply be put to the vote, not the government amendment that no one here is questioning. It's just where you're pulling it from, and if we, as opposition, have the opportunity to respond to it in real time and start loading into the system three, four alternatives from where you take it, depending on where the money is left. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u64	Thank you. President Schillerová shall report with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u65	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just a little while, I'll end the debate. I think we should keep going so we don't stick around. The point is that the Minister, through the Vice-President, came to the Committee on Budgets and justly said that they would take 1.8 billion out of the government's budget reserve, and that is where we technically made it clear that, therefore, there is some 1.1 left so that the proposals voted out and did not fall under the legal obligation, which is 0.3 percent of the total expenditure. So we edited it, but then we came out of a press conference, and we came out of a press conference, and it wasn't quite clear, but it was clear to me that it wasn't from anywhere else to take it, that it would still be a billion, so we were redoing it again for the second time. So the point here is, it's been cutting up a little bit, and we had to respond to it because we're trying to get the House to stand up to our amendments somehow, and we don't want them to remain unvoted. But, of course, they would be unvoting if taken off the government's budget reserve, interfering with the legal level. So Patrik Nacher wanted to point out that we have been redoing the package of amendments here several times in order to achieve their voteability, and you have given us a fair warning of 1.8, and we have learned about 1 billion from the press conference, and that is all. I think I'd probably have the debate, if I may, no further... to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u66	I thank you, and since I do not see anyone with a factual remark or with a priority right, then the duly signed-in Member Robert králíček will continue and Mr Igor Hendrych will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u67	Even after the words of Minister Stanjura, I would like to read the amendments and apply to two of my amendments. The first concerns the Security Information Service, where I believe that the BIS has demonstrated in recent years how important and integral part of our security it is, participated in the detection of many serious incidents and currently 59 million crowns are being drawn in the budget. This amount, I believe, could have a major impact on the fulfilment of their tables, and if it is unable to fill its tables and does not have enough human capacity, it can also affect its development, investment and, of course, its functioning in the future. Furthermore, this deficit or this money-taking by the Security Information Service may have an impact in the near future on the purchase of important intelligence techniques, on further development of software and such things. That is why I am signing up for the amendment under number 507 at the moment, and in Chapter 305 of the Security Information Service, I am increasing the expenditure of the aggregate indicator by CZK 59 million to the detriment of Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. I believe that the BIS needs them substantially more than the Office of the Government, which, as one of the two items, has increased by 74 million. With regard to the second amendment, this concerns Chapter 378 of the National Cyber and Information Security Office, and here I could actually say that I also follow up on the amendments tabled in the past by the current Vice-President of the House, Mr Bartošek, with whom I have always agreed that there is a need to invest in cyber security, and even if a member of the coalition, I have often voted in favour of his amendments, because I believe cyber security plays a far more important role than in the past, not only from the current situation - because my amendment was made before the conflict - but also from the perspective of the future and upcoming Presidency of our Republic, where we can expect increased cyberspace attacks on our authorities. We know what the situation was at some ministries, and when I look at the current situation where Russia's aggression, when it was preceded by a cyber-blast attack on the authorities of Ukraine, and it is currently accompanied by other cyber-attacks not only in Ukraine but also in other countries, I believe that it is taking money from the National Cyber and Information Security Office, when they cannot fill the tables again, and we know how very difficult it is to find professionals who are willing to work in government in this area and are not overpaid by private entities, I believe that it is very risky when I say this. I don't want to scare anybody here, but I think it's very risky. [[11.40 hours]] That is why I am signing up for the amendment under number 509, when Chapter 378 of the National Cyber and Information Security Authority raises the expenditure of the overall indicator by CZK 52 million. In the budget we are talking about, it is a relatively small amount, but it is crucial and important for this office. And since I have also mentioned here how important the role of the National Cyber and Information Security Office will be in our Presidency, I believe that this money could go to the expense of Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, the expenditure associated with the performance of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union. It's about CZK 52 million. Therefore, I thank you for supporting these amendments, which also concern our internal security - our internal security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u68	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Igor Hendrych will now appear and prepare Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my fellow Members, I would like to sign up for an amendment registered under House Document No 521, not just for myself, but together with Members Aleš Juchelka and Members Jana Pastuchová, Andrea Babišová, Lenka Dražilová, Jana Hanzlíková and Renata Oulehlová. Technically, in Chapter 313, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs increases the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and specific indicator The benefits of state social support and foster care by CZK 3 billion and subsequently in Chapter 396 State debt reduces the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator of the State debt operator by CZK 3 billion. And now the justification for what's going on. Basically, I've already talked about this here before. Last year, only 7 billion were spent on the housing contribution, which is specifically covered by this amendment, and only 25 percent of the eligible population received the housing contribution. This is done on the basis of an analysis that I have already imagined here once, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself has had. It is therefore a circus of 25 percent of the eligible population, and it does not appear to us that the amount that has been increased by CZK 3 billion to this contribution by the Ministry is sufficient. I assume the government coalition wants to help all eligible applicants for a housing allowance. In such a case, it would require a $28 billion circus, possibly additional funds, because a range of beneficiaries has expanded and the amounts to which people will reach have increased. However, it is clear to us that this amount is unrealistic at the moment, but 3 billion seems to us to be small, and we therefore propose to increase by another 3 billion to draw on the housing allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u70	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Margita Balaštíková and Mr Karel Sládeček will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u71	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I tabled together with my colleague Martin Kukla under number 566. In short, I would like to ask you, you know that I always speak to a sector that I understand, I'm not trying to do everything. Perhaps it is a surprise to you that I am now stepping up to the sport chapter. This is due to the fact that I am a former active athlete who has, of course, his offspring, whom I think they have always represented with dignity and some still represent our country. I have also worked with children with disabilities, and I think we realize how important it is today, when children are not moving, when we have almost 60 percent of children at the level of obesity, when there is more dependence on virtual reality and on all computers, so that this chapter, which may not be important from your point of view today - yes, we have a very difficult situation, I understand all this - but please, we have the smallest budget for this chapter. Other states that have the same population or even smaller ones give much, much more to sport. And I think that a reduction of 33 percent in this chapter is really a liquidation for a lot of sports sectors. And now I don't just think about the kids, because in the last two years, we've really dropped the number of registered athletes in sports teams in under 15 years of youth. And I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, for a large part of sports clubs and sports clubs and certain sports associations, it is a reduction that is in this chapter, for sport to be liquidated and there is really a threat of economic disturbance, especially because the most significant cuts have occurred in the area of subsidies for the operation and maintenance of sports facilities, which is in direct contradiction with the fact that we have a huge increase in energy prices. And these rising expenses aren't really going to serve to keep these clubs alive at all. I don't mean the professional clubs, I'm thinking about the kids that have been registered in these sports sectors. Many of these clubs are owned by municipalities as well, and I certainly can't imagine that now that the mayors are facing increased costs, they are really going to spend on this chapter. That is why I wanted to ask you, colleagues, also for my colleague, Mr Martin Kukla, to consider whether this amount, which we are really trying not to take from state reserves, would be such a liquidation for the state budget, but we are taking it from the Technological Agency. I also realize what the Minister of Finance has said. I'm taking it all into consideration. However, I think the billion we're proposing there won't kill us anymore, and we're doing it for our future, for the children. And it's really for the sports clubs, because I believe that the Minister will definitely try to find funding in the state budget, but I just want it not to be too late, because the clubs won't be here, they won't be able to recover. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u72	Thank you, Madame. Mr Karel Sládeček will now appear and Mr Jan Volný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up to the amendments under the numbers 376 and 377. The purpose of Amendment 376 is to reduce the contributions to the European Union budget by CZK 30 billion. Given the extraordinary situation in which the Czech Republic is facing the highest energy crisis in modern history, high inflation and a leap increase in energy prices are crushing most of the household, funds should be left in the Czech Republic to reduce the impact of energy prices and high inflation for the population. The purpose of Amendment 377 is to transfer funds for development programmes, which are primarily support for joint education, so-called inclusion, to the chapter of special education, where they will be far more beneficial for the education and education of children. It is proposed that the amount in the Ministry's programme be reduced by funds intended, inter alia, for the inclusion of education and moved within the Ministry's department to activities which will develop the education of children with specific educational requirements within the so-called special education, which is more appropriate for children's development and inclusion. Indicator Other expenditure on the security of the Ministry's tasks has been chosen because it has in the past included funds intended to support special education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Volný will now appear and Mr Petr Letocha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u75	Hello, Mr President, hello, Minister of Finance, colleagues, fellow Members. I would like to sign up for this amendment, which I have tabled and is registered under number 554. On this amendment, I was slightly initiated by the amendment tabled by colleagues Bernard, Michálek, Munzar and others, and it concerned the adjustment of the budget of the chapters which the Committee on Budgets itself takes care of. These are chapters of the Office of the President of the Republic, Chamber of Deputies, Chamber of Deputies, Chamber of Deputies, Ombudsman's Office, Constitutional Court, National Office - sorry, I can hardly see it - budget board and Supreme Audit Office. This is a reduction in their budget, and I would essentially agree with this amendment. It's not fatal, it's a 2.5 percent reduction, and I think it has its logic at this time. But it would be logical if it were a little bit of a partial balance, because of these seven chapters, it decreased by 2.5 percent on average in five, it's from 2.4 to 2.7, but I see two large divisions. The office of the President of the Republic, Chapter 301, has been reduced by 5,25 percent. Probably by mistake. I think it's more like someone's forgotten. Nothing went down at the National Budget Board's. I would be surprised that the administration itself would agree with this, because they should be the first to say that they should be saved, and if their colleagues in the chapters of the Budget Committee are reduced by 2,5 percent, they would certainly not agree to have zero there. That's why I basically copied it, I can tell, but I've matched all the decreasing items to a range of 2.4 to 2.7. That means we should cut all those chapters equally, fairly as well, so that there's a little bit of logic. So thank you for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u76	I thank you, Mr President, now Mr Petr Letocha will speak and Mr David Šimek will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. After consulting the Ministry of the Interior, I tabled my amendment, the number of House document 501, to which I hereby declare. It concerns the transfer of appropriations between two chapters of the State budget and does not increase its deficit in any way. This is the sum of CZK 1.5 billion, when this amount is reduced on the expenditure side of the General Treasury and transferred to the expenditure of the Ministry of Interior, whose expenditure increases by this amount. The reason for the transfer of this amount is the establishment of a programme of assistance to the citizens of Ukraine, which arose in connection with the attack by the Russian Federation on Ukraine. The Programme of Assistance to the Citizens of Ukraine provides a basic form of assistance to persons located in the territory of the Czech Republic who do not have the possibility of material security from their own or other means. Its main coordinator and provider will be the Administration of Refugee Devices of the Ministry of the Interior. In addition to the programme of assistance aimed at providing basic life needs, the participants of Ukraine will be granted the right to remain in the Czech Republic. Assistance to ensure related administrative activities is necessary in the workplaces of the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy, on which foreigners are checked out, in the form of non-employment agreements. Further assistance will be provided by the Police of the Czech Republic. The implementation of the programme will require costs of CZK 1.5 billion. In addition to its own assistance to the citizens of Ukraine specified above, in connection with the arrival of the citizens of Ukraine affected by the conflict, it will be necessary to ensure personal reinforcement of the Administration of Refugee Devices of the Ministry of Interior for the purpose of ensuring the implementation of the programme, the security of contractual doctors who will provide medical services to the participants of the programme, and the assistance at the workplaces of the Ministry of Interior issuing long-term visas to the citizens of Ukraine. In order to implement the above-mentioned related measures, it is necessary to temporarily strengthen the Ministry of the Interior by persons employed under work agreements outside employment. Both security forces will also participate in the assistance programme, which will be reflected in increased overtime and alerting of members of the Police of the Czech Republic and Fire Rescue Services of the Czech Republic and increased needs in the field of operational expenses. I would also like to speak with my second amendment to the State Budget Act, House press number 144, House document number 508, to which I hereby declare. My second amendment goes hand in hand with my previous amendment, which I mentioned a moment ago. This proposal also concerns assistance to the inhabitants of Ukraine and has been consulted by the Ministry of the Interior. The amendment concerns the transfer of CZK 300 million from the general treasury spending page to the budget of the Ministry of Interior of CZK 150 million and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of CZK 150 million. The proposal does not in any way increase the budget deficit. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the humanitarian working group of the crisis staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and following the recommendations of the Security Council of the State, will provide the means to address Ukraine's emergency situation in an aggregate amount of CZK 300 million. The Ministry of Interior will provide assistance to the inhabitants of Ukraine through its two permanent programmes - the permanent medical humanitarian programme MEDEVAC and the on-site assistance programme of CZK 150 million. The scope of the assistance provided under the MEDEVAC programme will include the reception of the inhabitants of Ukraine, whereby the adoption means ensuring the selection of persons suitable for transport to the Czech Republic, their transport, legalization of their stay in the Czech Republic, accommodation, provision of food, basic material support and medical treatment of the injured. The maximum duration of the support provided under the MEDEVAC programme is for the duration of the need for health care. The amount of CZK 150 million granted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in line with the Government's resolution of 25 February 131 on the provision of emergency assistance to Ukraine in the form of humanitarian aid. Thank you for supporting my proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask for Mr David Šimek's speech and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u79	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the Government, dear colleagues, I am signing up for Amendment 496 to budget chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. In recent weeks, we have heard many proposals on how the budget should be increased in various chapters, but so far no one has mentioned the area of youth that I feel is very important. In the Czech Republic there are young people organized in various non-profit organizations that provide activities for meaningful free time of children and youth. Only the largest Czech organization covering these subjects, and this is the Czech Council of Children and Youth, represents approximately 250,000 individual members. It must also be said that volunteers take care of these children in their spare time all year round, for which they owe a huge thank you. All these organizations need hundreds of clubs and camp bases for their activities, not only for their members. Last year the organizations involved children from the tornado area, this year they will certainly include children from Ukraine. [[12.00 hours]] Many of these foundations of the organization were often very devastated by the abolished Children and Youth Fund. The previous governments annually supported the development and reconstruction of the material-technical base of CZK 25 million per year. Compared to the State aid for the development of sport, which was in the order of billions, you must recognise that the amount of allocated funds is undervalued, not in line with real needs and unsustainable in the long term. So it is worth considering whether to increase this support in the years to come, for which I intercede. Today, my colleague Marek Výborný and I would like to table an amendment to increase support for the development and reconstruction of the material-technical base by CZK 10 million. After consulting the Czech Council of Children and Youth, we know that organizations are able to spend these funds this year without any problem. At the same time, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, we were looking for a source from which these funds could be transferred, which is the area of capital expenditure to public universities, where CZK 500 million is being budgeted. Since many young and municipal politicians are present here in the hall, who also support these organisations from their budgets, I believe that this amendment will succeed together. Thank you all in advance for supporting this proposal in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u80	Thank you, Member, and Mr Vojtěch Munzar is now in office and Mr Lubomír Metnar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u81	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward two amendments, which are very modest in terms of budgetary impact, but are very important in my opinion, and at the same time I present them in agreement with both the Minister of Culture, because it concerns his chapter and the Minister of Finance. The first under number 548 concerns the commemoration of the 1942 events. As you all know, this year we will remember 80 years since Operation Anthropoid and also the tragic 80-year anniversary of the burning of Lidice and Ležáky. Both events also have a significant international reach in addition to the home. Operation Anthropoid has become an important moment in our history - it is not only a symbol of opposition to the occupying forces, but also one of the most important resistance events in the occupied Europe of World War II, which has contributed to the annulment of the Munich Agreement. This is also related to the commemoration of the burning of Lidice and Ležák, which are also not just tragic events in the history of our state, but have become a memento of war horrors for the whole world. And even in the context of the events of the last days and of the war horrors in Ukraine only a few hundred kilometres away from us, the commemoration of these events is more than timely. Therefore, I propose a transfer of CZK 10 million from the government's budget reserve, namely the contribution of CZK 5 million to the Lidice Memorial to commemorate the burning of Lidice and Ležáky and CZK 5 million for other contribution organizations under the Ministry of Culture to commemorate the operation of the Anthropoid itself, precisely in order to give a dignified reminder of these events and to finance the events and projects that will refer to these anniversaries. The second amendment under number 549 - once again I propose to strengthen the Ministry of Culture's budget by CZK 10 million from the government budget reserve, namely the digitization of the Czech News Agency's photo archive through the National Library. Digitization of the archive does not only mean modern archiving, but it will, in particular, enable us to work more efficiently with our archive documents and make these documents available to the general public. That is why this project is important from my point of view to preserve the memory of the nation and we all know the quote by George Santayan: He who does not remember the past is doomed to repeat it. Both proposals, as I said, are very modest but very important in terms of budgetary impact, and I ask for their support at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Lubomír Metnar will now appear and Mrs Lucie Šafránková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u83	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. We are at a time when Europe has found itself in a very difficult security situation as a result of Ukraine's attack. I would like to point out in advance that I consider it inappropriate to collect political points in the current crisis. I will speak to the point regardless of my political affiliation, because I believe that this crisis wipes out the differences between the coalition and the opposition. I would like to mention that last week, my colleagues and I participated in an interinstitutional security conference within the framework of the French Presidency in the European Union. All the speakers have strongly condemned the Russian attack, our common position also expresses the declaration that we have adopted. Words such as unity, uniform procedure, cohesion, sanctions and the need to increase and improve European defence were heard. The negotiations showed that the crisis in Ukraine strengthened the unity of the European Union and the ability to act. It was also said that defence budgets had been sacrificed for a long time, and they had to be stabilized and increased. We need to prepare for new challenges. It is essential to focus on strengthening strategic autonomy. The Czech Republic must also respond to these challenges. Before I go to the Ministry of Defence's very budget, I would like to appreciate that the government has decided to provide assistance, not just military equipment. Now I'd like to move on to the Ministry of Defence's budget for 2022. The government of the ANO movement proposed and approved a budget for the Defence Ministry for 2022 amounting to CZK 93.5 billion. The current government approved the defence budget of CZK 88.1 billion, i.e. the difference being 5.4 billion. The share of this chapter's expenditure on GDP will thus fall from 1.4 to 1.3 percent this year, which I see as a very poor political signal from the Czech Republic towards NATO partners in the current security situation. The crises are very hard to predict, none of us predicted that a security crisis would break out at the end of the covid crisis. We must be prepared for such crises, and therefore it is imperative that the defence budget be increased, stable and continuously growing. For these reasons, I propose two amendments. In my first amendment, I propose a complete return of CZK 5.4 billion to the defence budget, but here I would like to point out that, after I have recorded the information and today's amendment by the Minister of Defence, the Government has adopted a resolution to support CZK 1 billion to the budget and the Minister has read this amendment, so I amended my amendment to CZK 4.4 billion. The adjustment of the budget will allow the Defence Department to continue carrying out tasks arising from the government of previously approved conceptual and strategic documents and will also guarantee its stable and continuous growth. It is necessary to continue with new acquisitions and to speed up the implementation of framework contracts with regard to operational needs of the Czech Army. In order not to talk, or to speak specifically, it is necessary to focus on purchases such as means of transport. Today we see a problem with logistics in Ukraine. CBRN vehicles, engineer vehicles, ammunition, ballistics, equipment components that the military also needs. I appreciate this amendment, which the Minister of Defence has tabled today, but is aimed at handguns. My first amendment also reflects the unrealized remuneration of soldiers. Our government approved the remuneration for soldiers amounting to CZK 1,400. Annual inflation should be close to 10 per cent in the first quarter of this year and average inflation in 2022 should be 8.5 per cent. Growth in energy prices should contribute significantly to inflation this year. For this reason too, it is necessary to increase the salaries of soldiers to the level of 1,400 crowns we approved. Thus, on the first amendment. [[12.10 hours]] Second amendment. If you do not accept my first amendment, I have also prepared a second one to increase the amount of CZK 520 million in the Ministry of Defence budget, which reflects the already mentioned unrealized valorisation of the soldier's salary. The previous government approved a remuneration rate of CZK 1,400. As I have already said, the reason is mainly the expected growth in energy and the associated overall increase in living costs. So far, as the current situation will affect such high inflation, we can assume. Thank you for your attention and, to the very end, allow me to sign up to my Amendment No. 551 and Amendment No. 553, which I also justified now in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Lucie Šafránková will now appear and prepare herself for President Alena Schillerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u85	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the seven amendments that I am proposing for the SPD. I submit the first amendment together with my colleague Radek Rozvoral and Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, and we propose to transfer CZK 5 billion from budget chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration to budget chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Specifically, it is a proposal to reduce the volume of the expenditure indicator of contributions to the European Union budget from the proposed CZK 60 billion to CZK 55 billion. In the current economic and social crisis, as a result of the effects of the pandemic, astronomical growth in energy prices and other basic life needs, the economic and social interests of Czech citizens and Czech companies must be given priority in the budget over the allocation of Czech public money abroad. We propose to transfer the amount of CZK 5 billion within the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs into expenditure indicators The contribution to care under the Social Services Act CZK 3 billion and the contribution to the employment of disabled people CZK 2 billion. In contrast to the original draft budget, the government is unacceptable to reduce the amount of expenditure of the indicator by CZK 1 billion in the care allowance under the Social Services Act, although the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is planning to increase the maximum hourly financial limits for field and assistant services for disabled people from March onwards, which will clearly increase the costs of the disabled, whose sole income is mostly just the so-called care allowance. In the name of maintaining the quality of the lives of our disabled fellow citizens and maintaining the availability to them of the absolutely necessary social services, we therefore propose an increase in the corresponding expenditure indicator by CZK 3 billion, and we also propose an increase of CZK 2 billion in the amount of expenditure of the specific indicator Contribution to promoting the employment of disabled people. Its proposed low volume compared to the original draft budget - it is once again a reduction - in its consequences it is again very damaging to disabled citizens when it threatens their jobs and jobs on the so-called protected labour market. It was House Document No. 397. In another amendment, which I also propose with my colleague, Mr Rozvoral and Mrs Lesenská, we propose to transfer CZK 5 billion from budget chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration to budget chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is also a proposal to reduce the volume of the expenditure indicator of contributions to the European Union budget from the proposed CZK 60 billion to 55 billion. We propose to transfer this amount of CZK 5 billion within the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs into expenditure indicators The benefits of state social support and foster care. In particular, this is an increase in the amount of foster care benefits by CZK 2 billion, the benefits to disabled persons by CZK 1 billion, and Other expenditure of the organisational units of the State increasing the volume of appropriations Salary appropriations and other payments for the work carried out by 2 billion. With regard to the benefits of foster care, after the last amendment to the Child Welfare Act, the situation of so-called long-term foster relatives has deteriorated in some way in relation to their remuneration. Moreover, there will also be an increase in a number of basic life needs in this area, so I consider the increase in the volume of the relevant budget funds to be very desirable. Benefits for disabled persons, this is a contribution to mobility and a contribution to a special health aid, have not been increased for more than four years and their valorisation is also absolutely necessary due to the ever-increasing prices of transport, fuel and so on. It is about maintaining a dignified life of disabled people who are very dependent on the transport available. We also consider it necessary to increase the amount of budgetary resources earmarked for salaries of employees in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because, taking into account current high inflation, the new government has not only increased the salaries of some of these civil servants, but has effectively reduced them, for example, in the case of employees at labour offices and within the Czech Social Security Administration, for which there has also been a significant expansion of the scope of their labour obligations. This is House document 396. In the next I propose to transfer CZK 5 billion from the budget chapter, also 398 of the General Treasury, to budget chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is specifically a proposal to reduce the volume of the expenditure indicator The European Union budget of the proposed CZK 60 billion to CZK 55 billion. Then I propose to transfer these CZK 5 billion within the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs into the expenditure indicator Non-investment non-payment transfers. This is an area of social services provided by public local authorities at regional and municipal level, a segment that has been repeatedly heavily underfunded in recent years, and now that it has borne and is carrying a significant burden on the effects of the Coronavirus, its situation is even worse than usual. It is no longer viable for the regions and municipalities to run out of this money around the middle of the calendar year, which is unfortunately no exception in recent years. It is also about the support of staff working in this area of social services, in particular as regards their salaries, remuneration and other benefits for them. In particular, it concerns the budget item Transfers under Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, but also on the financial strengthening of the volume of important appropriations such as transfers to territorial budgets for social and legal protection of children, subsidies for activities carried out by municipalities with extended scope in the field of social protection of children, state contribution to the performance of foster care, contribution to the performance of social work at regional and municipal authorities or state contribution to the operation of children's groups. This amendment is under the number of House document 405. Next, under budget chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I propose to transfer CZK 100 million from the specific expenditure indicator Active employment policy in total to the specific expenditure indicator Care allowance under the Social Services Act. In the awareness of growth in energy prices and other basic needs of life, we consider increasing the amount of funds in this budgetary indicator necessary in order to maintain the basic standard of living and the quality of life of disabled citizens dependent on the care of others so that the necessary social services remain available to them in order to maintain or improve their health. We propose to remove these CZK 100 million from the specific expenditure indicator Active employment policy in total. I consider the reduction in the amount of funds under this budget heading to be tolerable and justified, since unemployment in the Czech Republic has been recording a declining trend for a long time, which is very positive, while the number of job vacancies is continuously increasing, and therefore naturally the need to operate a large-scale, generally targeted employment policy activity, including the level of funding. It can be considered a more rational allocation of these appropriations under the Chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for other more necessary purposes and objectives. This amendment is under the number of House document 407. [[12.20 hours]] In addition, under budget chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I propose to transfer CZK 100 million from the specific expenditure indicator Active employment policy in total to the specific expenditure indicator Replacement maintenance for the careless child. In the draft state budget, the amount of funds earmarked for the payment of replacement maintenance was reduced by CZK 680 million from CZK 861 million to CZK 181 million from the original draft budget of the previous government. This forceful reduction is very dangerous and counterproductive, especially when the Institute of Substitute Nutrition works quite briefly and gradually begins to meet its declared goal, temporarily helping the most vulnerable social group of our single mothers. Such a drastic reduction in budgetary resources can put it very much at risk. We propose removing these CZK 100 million from the specific expenditure indicator Active employment policy in total and reducing the amount of funds under this budget heading is a viable and justified one. This amendment is under the number of House document 462. In the next amendment, I propose, under budget chapter 313, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs transfer CZK 100 million from the specific expenditure indicator Active employment policy to the specific indicator Benefits for disabled persons. Benefits for disabled persons, this is a contribution to mobility and a contribution to a special medical device, and this is under the number of the House document 463. In the last amendment, I propose, under budget chapter 313, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also transfer CZK 100 million to the specific expenditure indicator Active employment policy into the following expenditure indicators: CZK 30 million to the benefits of disabled persons, CZK 30 million to the replacement maintenance allowance for the dependent child and CZK 40 million to the care allowance under the Social Services Act. I propose to withdraw these funds from the specific expenditure indicator Active employment policy in total, and I have already argued the reasons for this shift in previous amendments. So just to be safe, I will repeat the figures of the House documents, this is House document 396, 397, next it is House document 405, 407, 462 and 463. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u86	Thank you, ma'am. The next person to be entered in the detailed debate is President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u87	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I will be very brief, unlike my previous speaker. Allow me, because as former finance minister, who has spent more than 25 years of her working life in the Ministry of Finance, it is clear that my heart will always beat for this resort, so I apply to the amendment under the House press 555. This is the case in Chapter 312 of the Ministry of Finance in the general indicator Total expenditure and in the cross-cutting indicator Expenditure maintained in the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system Total expenditure is increased by CZK 240 million, in the specific indicator Expenditure on the security of financial management tasks is increased by CZK 100 million, in the specific indicator The expenditure on the security of the central authority's tasks is increased by CZK 140 million. In Chapter 396 State debt in the general indicator of expenditure total and specific indicators of government debt operation is reduced by CZK 240 million. Allow me to make a brief statement. The financial administration started work on the nDIS project last year, this is on a new tax information system that should replace the existing ADIS after more than thirty years and solve the problem with vendor lock-in. An analysis of options has been carried out, the possible variants defined, the most economically advantageous option chosen, and now it is necessary to ensure the implementation of the selected variant. In order not to delay and shift the actual implementation of the appropriate solution over time, it is necessary to increase the expenditure of the General Financial Directorate, i.e. Chapter 312 of the Ministry of Finance, by CZK 100 million. The nDIS project can be clearly defined as the most important implemented project of the Ministry of Finance and it is necessary to support its implementation. The second part of my proposal is focused on the Ministry of Finance itself, which started preparatory work on the implementation of the event of the insulation of the roof cover and the change of windows, for which the previous government allocated funds in total of CZK 280 million in two years, 2022 and 2023, always after CZK 140 million. In the current draft budget, the appropriations for 2022 are cut off, with the whole investment being shifted. I think it is necessary to ensure its financing already this year in order not to put the entire implementation at risk. The overall increase in the volume of Chapter 312 of the Ministry of Finance, as I have already said, is to be ensured by moving from budget chapter 396 to State debt, from a specific indicator of the State Debt Service. This proposal also led me to the fact that prices in construction are rising very much, there is a lack of interest from suppliers in the implementation of construction works for the state administration, when some selection procedures have to be published repeatedly, and since I still remember that there was a relatively high readiness for this reconstruction, I propose this amendment. The Minister, through the Vice-President, certainly knows that the Ministry of Finance is not exactly the most beautiful buildings, nor in any way has it been invested too much in recent years, no matter who the Minister was, of course, because every finance minister has always left this building last in line compared to others. And certainly, in order to avoid higher costs in the future, it would be good to implement this action. That's all, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u88	Thank you. Another person who is enrolled is a member of Julius Špičák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u89	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I will now be very brief and I want to introduce you to document number 546, which is my own proposal, an amendment containing: in Chapter 335 of the Ministry of Finance, expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure and cross-cutting indicator The expenditure on vaccinations and the pandemic plan of the Czech Republic plus expenditure on other relevant binding indicators is increasing by CZK 1 billion. Second, in Chapter 396 of the State Debt, expenditure on the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator on the State Debt Service is reduced by the same amount of 1 billion. If this amount seems high to anybody, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this segment, the current budget proposal amounts to a huge amount of 4.5 billion, and it is, in fact, unprecedented and very difficult to justify. The justification for my proposal is basically very simple. Our population's inoculation at this point is approaching some 65 percent, and if anything is true, absolute protection against death is really her inoculation, so I would say almost absolute. Long ago, population inoculation has to be held somewhere around 70 percent. Ambition must be large enough and we must be aware that the protection of the population, as the vaccination activity currently declines, will be reduced again. Of course, we live in a health euphoria that the pandemic is falling in some way and is therefore behind us. But in this euphoria, we've already basically been twice, and in the fall, there's always been a very cruel sobriety. A few more numbers that aren't reported that often. First, our average annual mortality rate in recent years is about 108 000 deaths per year, and over the last two years of the pandemic, this mortality rate has been increased by 50,000 deaths, which is really a huge, huge amount, very difficult to explain. It is basically something that we need to analyse and reduce at any cost in the future. At present, almost 100 people are still dying a day, and in all cases, in 100 percent of the cases, people are not vaccinated. So the vaccination, the total appeal for vaccination, must be emphasized to the maximum. [[12.30 hours]] In addition, this is not essentially the actual vaccination process. One of the main problems why the pandemic has reached such size in our country is that it lacks a dedicated analytical unit, which is definitely not an ÚZIS. It is a state health institution, so some of these funds should have been used to revitalize this institute so as to provide really relevant analyses and allow us to really follow them meaningfully. Thank you for your attention and I hope you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u90	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Just a brief apology. Mr Jan Richter apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock. From 12.30 to 15 pm, Mrs Renata Zajíčková apologises for work reasons, and Mrs Karla Maříková also for work reasons from 12.30 pm. Mr Dvořák apologizes from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons. For working reasons, Mr Kott apologises from 12:30 to 14:00. I have one more fresh apology here, Mr Síla, who apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. Mr Vondráček, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In the context of a detailed debate, I would like to sign up to the amendment, House press 563 and the amendment, House press 562. [[correct document]] [[correct document]] In general, I can say that the budget of the Justice Department is relatively clear and can be clearly observed by any trend. For this reason, I can truly say with all my conviction that the Minister cannot go through with the budget he proposes. I don't think I'm gonna be the first to say that there's more of an accounting cut and an operation. I really dare say the term that this is such Potěmkinův's village, which we know will eventually not be valid and will not be true. This is partly due to external influences that we did not know about, but partly due to the effects that the Minister of Justice had to be aware of at the time of the draft budget. He himself responded to discussions and discussions on the constitutional and legal committee in the sense that he did not deny it, however, he is a member of a government and the government decided to cut it. I'm sure there's a way to save money in that resort, but there's a way to save it with some sort of system footsteps, not blunt cuts. The only real savings that can be observed there is really only on salaries, when the CZK 1,400 were actually taken back, which were to be received by forensic and prison officials who were not part of the armed forces. But saving on these very items really is no reason to boast. Virtual savings - but I do not blame the Minister of Justice or Finance - is that there is a reduced amount to the salaries of judges and prosecutors. We've reduced the salaries here, and I'm really expecting justice to come forward and they're gonna want to make up for the pay gap that we cut them down here in January. However, I understand that it is not possible to budget this way. But we can say here that apparently the money will still have to be spent one day. Absolutely doesn't include increased energy expenditure. In January last year, the purchase price was CZK 1,400 per megawatt hour. Then the resort competed and competed some 2,400. But the supplier has resigned, and at this point, the price is 5,200 per megawatt hour. That's an increase of almost five times, and you won't find it in that budget. Up to now, the daily dietary dose is CZK 65 per prisoner. Even now, it is clear that this dose will not be enough to increase the prices of basic food, and it is not taken into account that although there has been a permanent state for years and the number of prisoners has fallen, it is now rising slightly. The fact that we have adopted some legislation here and that there will be costs of so-called bailout execution, when the bailouts will be paid a lump sum. There are 204 million in the budget, and when we asked about the constitutional law committee, they said that the real estimates are 700 million. There's just a $500 million difference. With all due respect, I'm saying you're not gonna make it under half a billion. And it's a legal expense that you're just gonna have to spend. So I am convinced that the Minister will come in September at the latest thanks to the energy, fuel costs - you could not know that - but it is necessary to say here that the Minister will come in September at the latest and will want to add to the resort, because the resort wants, above all, expenditures which are from a law that cannot be circumvented. The prison service told us on the constitutional law committee that at this point they still have it figured out because they have no claims for unused expenses of CZK 300 million. But they're going to be spent very quickly, and then what's next year? Please note that the judicial part does not have such reserves and has never had them. This means, therefore, that my amendments are directed both at salaries, because I find it immoral for overseers to add 700 crowns and tutors, special educators, psychologists who are there in the front line, to have nothing added to them. The prison service is failing to fill about 200 tables because there are no people in those regions, but it is desirable for them to be employed, and there is a high fluctuation. That means we're going to have trouble securing employees in these fields at all, we're going to have problems securing writers. Courts have no reserves, they have to drown there, they have to shine there, there have to be negotiations in those courtrooms, they can't do it from the house through Skype. All of this leads me to the logical and irrefutable conclusion that money at the Justice Department cannot be saved in this way and will be missed. Amendment 563 in Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice proposes that expenditure on a specific indicator is increased Other expenditure on the judicial part by CZK 162 500 000 and other expenditure on the prison service by CZK 265 500 000. Summary indicator This increases expenditure by CZK 428 million. In Chapter 396 State debt the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator of the Government Debt Service is reduced by CZK 428 million. House printing 562 in Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice increases the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and specific indicator Other expenses of the judicial section by CZK 800 million. In Chapter 396 State debt the expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure and the specific indicator of the Government Debt Service is reduced by an amount of CZK 800 million. Expenditure would be used to cover the necessary operating expenses of the Ministry of Justice, which will certainly occur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another enrollment is Mr Aleš Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have two amendments here, I will be very brief. The first one is the House document under number 522. It concerns social services with regard to - and this is still being heard here by my colleagues - dramatically rising energy prices in the Czech Republic as well as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, which will undoubtedly bear the increased cost of social services in the Czech Republic We propose, with our colleagues, the transfer of funds of approximately CZK 1 billion from the budget to the chapter of the Ministry of Social Affairs, from the administration of the state debt. I know that, at this point in time, even regional authorities are under pressure, for example, from the social service providers, from the social services providers, from the organisations themselves, that they may just not be able to come out of their budgets during the year due to increased energy prices, and that the regions may have to supplement it with their budgets. The second House document is under number 523 and it is an increase of CZK 50 million from the specific indicator of Active Employment Policy on non-investment non-state transfers, namely transfers to non-state entities providing family services. Relationship care has its center of gravity in soft skills. Relationships are of course extremely important and, in the days when society suffers, I would say, so many pains and the world is difficult to grasp, the focus on the basic cell, which the family certainly is very important, and care for it is also very important. As a politician, I take it very seriously. Therefore, I would like to increase the family's grant title to CZK 200 million. [[12.40 hours]] The role of the state in promoting prevention is irreplaceable, while it is the only grant title that supports family and maternity centres throughout the Czech Republic. Threatened by target groups under the Family subsidy title, families are incomplete, accounting for up to 14 percent of all households, of which more than 80 percent are mothers with children. 400,000 children live in single - parent families, about 22 percent of all children in the Czech Republic. The programme also works with children or with families in the social and legal protection of children or with applicants for alternative family care. This issue is also part of the current concept of family policy. But I would like the funds of the family's subsidy title to be used in a targeted way also in direct support of families where there is a risk of breakup for various reasons. Very often, for example, it is a family that is burdened with the care of a child with disabilities, where we know from statistics that decay threatens a high percentage usually from men who simply cannot bear the increased attention of a disabled child. Most children are born in stable families, and we need this as a state. They also have the highest level of financial autonomy, and they can also care for the oldest and otherwise disadvantaged family members. The aim is therefore to strengthen the stability of families, to accompany them in stressful situations, to strengthen a quality environment for raising and socialising children. Therefore, I also ask for the support of this important amendment for me. So once again, I'm signing up for House documents number 522 and 523. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radek Koten - I do not see him anywhere here. So we can move on to the next one, and this is Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues, the Ministry of Justice's budget runs three budget chapters and plus minus in the last few years with almost the same resources or volumes. However, one part of chapter 336 is humiliated for this year almost half a billion crowns. It is expenditure on the activities of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic. It is a security body that ensures the execution of custody, the execution of prison sentences, as well as the protection of order and security in the conduct of the judiciary and the administration of the courts, in the activities of the prosecutors and the Ministry of Justice. I propose to increase the budget for prison service expenditure to at least the same amount as in 2021. The prison service must ensure the purchase of food for the feeding of prisoners, the continuous and continuous operation of prisons, the purchase of water, fuels and energy, and other expenditure related to the continuous care of prisoners. In the context of rising inflation and increasing energy prices, it is already clear that the proposed budget will not be sufficient. The only question is, in which month 2022 the finances will no longer be sufficient, and the government will have to increase the budget anyway. I'm just not sure that raising the budget from unused entitlements is the ideal condition. And I made my proposal at a time when fuel was below 40 kroner price, now it is at the limit of 45 kroner. The amount of CZK 461 298 817 for Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice suggests transferring from Chapter 398 of the General Treasury. And I take the liberty of signing up for my written application under number 461. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u96	Madam, thank you. The next envoy is Mr. Šimon Heller, I don't see him here. The next enrollment is then Mr Richtr. [[Objection.]] Richter, thank you. I'm sorry and you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u97	Thank you, Mr President, dear Government, honourable Members. Allow me to read here, or to sign up for my amendment to the Government Bill on the State Budget under House Document No. 567. While in the last 25 years the spending of most European Union countries on sport has increased significantly and the average European sport spending is 0.5 percent of GDP, unfortunately the development in the Czech Republic has gone in the opposite direction in financing the promotion and development of sport. According to statistics within the EU, the Czech Republic has long been one of the EU Member States with the lowest cost of promoting and developing sport. In June 2016, the Czech Government adopted its resolution number 591 on the concept of sport support 2016 to 2025 Sport 25. One of the main objectives of this concept was to increase the cost of sport in the state budget so that the Czech Republic would at least partially approach the average level of sport financing in the European Union. By gradually increasing government expenditure on sport annually between 2016 and 2025, the share of expenditure on support and sport development is to reach 1% of the total expenditure of the state budget, i.e. 0,3 % of GDP in nominal value should be around CZK 22 to 23 billion in the year 2025. While between 2017 and 2021, a gradual increase in the cost of sport achieved a level of circulation of 0,6 per cent of the total expenditure of the state budget with a view to achieving the stated objective in 2025, the opposite trend has occurred since 2022, and in this draft state budget we are going down the road and have started to decrease to a level of circulation of 0,4 per cent of the total expenditure of the state budget in 2021. From this point of view, it is highly unsystemic that, in the draft budget for 2022, the budget of Chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency was dramatically reduced by tens of percent to CZK 4.6 billion, although the average reduction in state budget expenditure and most chapters of the state budget is only 2 percent for 2022. Even after accounting for sports expenses in other chapters, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Education, some of the MMR expenditures do not exceed the budget appropriations to support and develop sport or 0,3 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget. It is understandable that, given the basic parameters of the draft state budget, chapter 362 of the NSA will record a year-on-year decline in 2022. However, the decline of more than 20 percent is not in line with the state's conceptual objectives in the field of sport or with the sport programme of your government. For a large part, especially sports clubs and sports unity, but also some sports associations, the proposed reduction in the cost of sport liquidation is a real threat of their economic failures and interference, especially because the most significant cuts occurred in the area of subsidies for the operation and maintenance of sports facilities, which is in sharp conflict with the sharp increase in energy prices and inflation, which, on the contrary, significantly increase expenditure on the provision of sports activities and movement activities in sports clubs and physical unity. The first example is the announced sale of the sports hall TJ Bohemians Prague in Prague in Hagibor due to lack of means of operation, in order to avoid risk of insolvency and to lose another sports centre. And I suppose other clubs will follow. The proposed increase in the expenditure of the NSA chapter under the heading Development and promotion of sport by CZK 600 million is a minimum necessary to ensure the operation of sports organisations, in particular the operation of sports sites and the payment of energy, which minimises the reduction of sport expenditure in the draft State Budget for 2022 by 12 percent year on year. First of all, in Chapter 396 State debt reduce the total expenditure of the chapter by CZK 200 million, as follows: under the heading Total expenditure reduce the amount of CZK 49 966 880 286 to CZK 49 766 880 286. Of which, under the heading Government Debt Service, reduce the amount of CZK 49 966 880 286 to CZK 49 766 880 286. [[12.50 hours]] Secondly, in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration to reduce the total expenditure of the chapter by CZK 400 million as follows: under the heading Total expenditure reduce the amount of 227 748 708 200 to the amount of 227 348 708 200, of which under the heading Government Budget Reserve to reduce the amount of 8 674 542 461 to 8 474 542 461, Building Savings to reduce the amount of 4 300 000 000 000 to the amount of 4 200 000 000 000 and Pension Insurance and Supplementary Pension Savings to reduce the amount of 7 600 000 000 to the amount of 7 500 000 000. Thirdly, in Chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency, increase the total expenditure of the chapter by 600 000 000 CZK as follows: in total, under the item Expenditure increase the amount of 4 604 360 271 to 5 204 360 271, of which under the heading Development and promotion of sport increase the amount from 2 832 921 081 to 3 432 921 081. If the government wants to move closer to the objective of the Sport 2025 concept in the amount of funding to support and develop sport from the state budget, it is necessary to realise that between 2023, 2024 and 2025 there will have to be an increase in sports spending by up to 5 billion per year. It is desirable to approach the target with at least gradual steps. The proposed adjustment is in line with the State concept of aid for sport 2016 to 2025. The amendment has a zero impact on the total revenue and expenditure of the state budget 2022 and is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. The amendment is also compatible with European Union law, in addition it is fully compatible with the European Union Sports Work Plan 2021 to 2024, in which it defines the European Union's objectives and tasks, as well as the individual Member States in the field of sport, under the file mark 2020/C419/01. Thank you all for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u98	Thank you, honourable Member. Another enrollment is Mr Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u99	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have listened to the debate that I had here with the Minister of Finance, and I have therefore decided at least one of those amendments, which is 100 million, which is 250 million - moving to the Ministry of Justice for the payment of funds for stopping wasteful bailouts - reading into the system under number 569, from chapter 396 of the State debt from the specific indicator of the State Debt Service, so that this proposal, in the event that the General Treasury is exhausted, was put to a vote because we need the funds there. For the two smaller amounts - ČTÚ and ERÚ - I left it in the original form. So once again, the number 569, the amount is the same, 250 million, but it's not from the General Treasury, but from the 396 State Debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another enrollment is Mr Pavel žáček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u101	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to subscribe to the accompanying resolutions, which the rapporteur and chairman of the Committee on Budgets have already read at the outset. The first part is from the Defense Committee. It relates to Chapter 308 of the National Security Authority, when our Committee recommended that the Government give priority to the National Security Authority's project on the technological replacement of the Cefeus Information System and the Ministry of Finance in Chapter 308 ensure the financing of the project for the period 2025 to 2027. The second accompanying resolution is for a change from the Security Committee. It concerns the State Budget Chapter 378 of the National Cyber and Information Security Office, when we, as a committee, called on the Government to adapt the draft budget for 2022 to Chapter 378 of the National Cyber and Information Security Office, including tables, in view of the security situation and the forthcoming Presidency of the EU Council. And the third thing I would like to mention in this context was our call to the Security Committee in the framework of the resolution, just this morning after the outbreak of the aggressive war against Ukraine, when we called on the government to adjust the budget in the necessary way, given the current security situation and the defence capacity of the Czech Republic, which I can say is what it is doing today, for which I thank it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u102	Thank you, Mr Marek Novák, and the next envoy is Mr Marek Novák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare my amendment, which is set out as House document 472. This is a transfer to Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, where the expenditure of the general indicator, the Drug Policy Programme plus expenditure of other relevant binding indicators is increased by CZK 154 065 000, and in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure on research, development and innovation, including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes. The point is that drug policy spending is undervalued today. This amount, which we want to increase, will certainly help not only in working with addicts in the field of legal and illegal addictive substances, but also, above all, in remedying social problems as such, but primarily and mainly in so-called primary prevention, when we want to discourage young people from being affected in any way in the area of addictive substances. You can find more in the explanatory statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u104	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. The last person we have logged in, or he was absent at one point, so he's actually gone backwards, is Mr. Šimon Heller, so I'm asking if the MP is present? No, I'll erase it. I ask, then, is any of the Members still interested in speaking in a detailed debate? Yes, I see, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u105	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up to the amendment, House Document No 565. For nine years we have witnessed Miloš Zeman undermining the security of the Czech Republic and systematically supporting Russia. I recall in points: lying about the terrorist attack in Vrbětice, kicking the BIS and our foreign partners, praising Putin, glossing about the liquidation of Czech journalists, and I could continue. [[13.00 hours]] My amendment thus belongs to a long series of anti-Russian sanctions, which we unanimously approve. Please take it. I suggest we cut the budget of the President's Office by CZK 6 million. And what are the reasons? While the Czech families are saving, the castle officials approve of the royal rewards that ordinary citizens do not dream of. [[Noise in the hall.]] Secondly, although Miloš Zeman is practically not traveling abroad... and Mr President, I ask you to calm down in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u106	I will ask all Members to calm down. I ask for peace in the hall so that the Member may have some room and peace to express his amendment. [[The noise in the hall continues.]] One more time, please, quiet in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u107	Second, economic reasons. Although Miloš Zeman practically does not travel abroad or receive visitors, the proposal for a significant humiliation from the Castle did not come. Thirdly, if we are looking for savings so that we can support our security, health care and the military more at this time, here they are. But above all, as Petr Pithart says - those nine years, those nine years of weakening and humiliating the Czech Republic cannot be saved by one television speech. My proposal, which I am lecturing, has only one motivation - my own conviction and my own conscience. Everyone, as you sit here, as we sit here, the voters elected us to represent and decide on the budget as a businessman, and I, as a responsible businessman, refuse to pay the castle party and pay the royal rewards as set up. My design is a symbol. I come up with a proposal that says let's cut the budget of the President's Office by six million. Thank you for thinking this through and considering this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u108	Mr. Ambassador, thank you, and I see a point of fact here. Mr Jan Volný came forward with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u109	Colleagues, I'll be very short. I respond to my previous speaker, through the President, who was very noisy, and my ears are a little sore. I want to ask, what's the point of his amendment? To the budget, or to any of the amendments that have already been tabled here? Because one amendment says that the hrad will be reduced by 21 million, the second amendment, mine, says that it will be reduced by an idea of 11 million, and the one you submitted, my colleague, is saying about 6 million. Is this a new amendment or an amendment to the amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr. Šimon Heller has a point of order, you have the floor. And please, in the hall, please, in the hall for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u111	Thank you. As forceful and noisy as I was, it was said in my speech, and there it was clearly said that I was proposing a new amendment, document number 565. The new amendment, as I have tabled, is kept in the tapestry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I see a point of fact. [[Noise in the hall.]] You're reporting for the debate, okay? You have your word. And once again, I'm asking for peace in the room. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u113	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I won't keep you any longer. I will just say that the amendments that I am going to apply to now have already been justified by my colleague here, and they are therefore amendments, House document 480, House document 512, House document 514, 515, 516, 517, 518 and 519. All these amendments concern the Ministry of Culture and the justification has already fallen from the mouth of my colleague Pokorná Jermanová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u114	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. I can see with fact that Mr Šimon Heller is still applying, if that is the case. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u115	Thank you. I'll still respond so there's no mistake. That means, it's... there's a proposal for $21 million here at the reading, and I suggest you add another $6 million so that it's clearly stated here as recorded in document number 565.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So I'm gonna ask you one more time if anyone's interested in getting off? Yes, I see, in a detailed debate, or as a priority right? [[Vice-President Kovářová off the microphone: In detail.]] Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, let me read the amendment by Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mrs Jana Krutáková to the Parliamentary Press 144, on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022. A proposal is made for the following regulation of the Government Act: to increase the total expenditure of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture in the specific indicator Expenditure, including Support for the Agrarian Sector - subsidy for the activities of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, by CZK 20 million and to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration in the specific indicator Government Budget Reserve by CZK 20 million. Justification: in the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, amendments are proposed to increase expenditure in favour of Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is proposed to increase the budget in support of the agricultural sector by CZK 20 million. The reason for this increase is the expected increase in the need for the volume of food that will be passed on to food banks for further distribution among people at the limit of material distress, who are without adequate access to basic foods. Assistance to food banks will also be particularly necessary in the context of the ongoing crisis in Ukraine and the immediate arrival of refugees from Ukraine. The funds will be used to support the operation of food banks and other entities with a humanitarian focus in the form of a subsidy to the result of the management. The increase in expenditure of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture is proposed to compensate by reducing expenditure of Chapter 398 General Treasury Administration in a specific indicator Government Budget Reserve of CZK 20 million. At the same time, if I can apply to this amendment, which I have just read. We are proposing this amendment because food banks have been successful over the years in helping those who have difficulty in ensuring basic food and hygiene needs, and so on. Personally, I am in contact with many other colleagues in the food banks, and I know what problems they are facing. It is precisely in the context of the increase in the number of foodstuffs to be distributed that there is a lack of funding for wage costs, given that the increased volume is causing the need for additional workers. And for this reason, I would ask you to support this proposal at third reading, because I believe and believe - not I believe - that food banks do their part very well and are part of helping those who cannot help themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u118	Madam, thank you. Do I ask again if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate? If not, I would like to call my colleagues from the lobby, if necessary, because we have a final vote on the proposal to exclude the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So before that, I am ending the detailed debate. Once again, we will vote on the proposal to eliminate the remaining unnegotiated points. [[The Minister asks for the final word.]] I'm sorry, is there an interest in the final word? Minister, yes, I'm sorry. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u119	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. Just to discuss the last proposal - we will strictly review the Rules of Procedure, and if, according to what particular Member or Member has written the amendment, we will vote on it this way. If there's a mistake, we won't be able to vote, of course we'll announce it on time. The House will decide as a sovereign. I considered it necessary to say this so that we do not argue over the microphone whether one of the amendments is written better or worse. It must meet the requirements, and it will either be voteable and the House will decide, or it will not be voted. Otherwise, let me thank you for the debate and look forward to the third reading next Thursday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-04-ps2021-009-06-001-112.u120	Thank you, Minister. Mr rapporteur, are you interested in the final word? There's no interest in the final word. Before we vote on the elimination of the remaining points, technically, with the replacement card number 24, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová voted. I'll have you checked out at the moment. I'm signing you all in, please. I hereby conclude the discussion of the State Budget item for 2022, second reading. At this point, we can vote on the proposal to eliminate the remaining unnegotiated points. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 158, registered 137, for 137, against no one. Result: accepted. So we've exhausted the 9th meeting program. And I merely remind you that we will meet on 10 March at 9 o'clock when the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is convened. You will receive the invitations as a matter of fact. Thank you and have a nice day, everyone.
