ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u1	Member's promise
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, honourable members and members of the government, you know that yesterday at the opening of the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, our former colleague, Mr Jan Farský, gave up his mandate. At that moment, his mandate expired in accordance with the Constitution. The first replacement is taking his place, I should say, the Pirate and Mayor coalition for the Liberec election region, Mrs. Jarmila Levko. The fact that Mrs Jarmila Levko became a Member was verified at the 6th meeting of our mandate and immunity committee, which had just ended, and we adopted resolution number 21. You have it - you should each have it - in front of you, but because I'm not sure if you've had enough - and I can see that it wasn't enough, so I'll read it. The resolution was very simple. Resolution 21, and it is a short, mandate and immunity committee of the 6th meeting held on 16 February 2022 on the creation of the mandate of the first deputy Member of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament: The mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after my introductory word, states first that on 15 February 2022 the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was created by the first alternate - Pirate coalition and the Mayor for the election region 7 - Liberecký, Mrs . Jarmila Levko, born May 14, 1969. He's placing me in charge to introduce you to him. Thus, the operative part of the resolution, which was adopted unanimously by the mandate and immune committee a moment ago. Now I would ask you all in accordance with the tradition to rise. [[The present rise.]] She asked that the President of the Chamber of Deputies come here - she is here already, and our new colleague. I will read the promise we all know and have in the constitution, and I will ask our new colleague to make a clear decision, and we believe that she will say, I promise. The promise is as follows: I pledge my allegiance to the Czech Republic, I promise to uphold its constitution and laws. I promise on my honor that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience. [[The new Member shall make a vow and accept the congratulations of the President of the House.]] I'm sure congratulations for all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u3	I'm gonna ask for peace. I will ask for peace and let me also welcome Mrs Jarmila Levka among us and wish her every success in her parliamentary work. We will now continue with the proposals for amending or supplementing the proposal for the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as stated on the invitation. Before the end of the sitting day, Mr Vladimír Zlínský was interrupted with his speech, asking if he wishes to continue. Yes, it is. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u4	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I will continue my work, and I will continue to talk about the territorial defence of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u5	I'll ask for some peace in the room, Mr. Ambassador. Please transfer the discussions to the foyer, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u6	Okay, thank you. The costs of territorial defence members: Training costs would be quite similar to those of current active backups, where more frequent but shorter training of territorial defence would correspond costfully to several longer active backup trainings. Two uniforms and, where appropriate, other equipment components should be taken for granted. Modern ballistic protection of the individual should be part of the normal equipment of territorial defence members. At first, the ballistic protection of the individual could be addressed at least in such a way that the one that ended the expiration for training purposes would be issued. The Government and the political representation as a whole should open up the question of the possibility of financing members of active reserves of territorial defence and reserves in the form of a deductible item from the tax base or directly a tax discount. The benefits of the represented concept of territorial defence: The main benefits of the proposed concept of territorial defence certainly include a significant strengthening of the security of critical infrastructure in the event of a threat to the country while maintaining the capacity of combat units. At the cost of the same or even lower than the current active advances, the state would gain a number of people capable of immediate deployment even in emergencies such as floods, fires, industrial accidents, massive black outs, large terrorist attacks and so on. [[9.10 hours]] At the same time, the introduction of territorial defence would be a way to increase the number of citizens with basic military training. Moreover, the Army of the Czech Republic could acquire experts not only in case of mobilization, but also for the normal operation of the army. These would be IT experts, drivers, cooks, logistics, health professionals, whose advantages would be well known numbers and quality. The possibility of using civilian weapons held by members of territorial defence would lead to a further reduction in the financial requirements for the armed forces and, at the same time, in the event of a crisis, at least part of the territorial defence could immediately carry out tasks with the arms in hand. In the case of some serious crisis scenarios, the deployment of tens of thousands of members of territorial defence from various civil professions would release the labour market and this would be positively reflected in the reduction of social tensions in society, caused by the reduction of part of the labour market generated by the crisis. The army of the Czech Republic would gradually regain experience, equipment and facilities for possible mobilisation with the training of territorial defence. By creating an important link between citizens and the Czech Army, which would generally lead to greater motivation for citizens to recruit to the Army of the Czech Republic, our company would be much more robust and less vulnerable in terms of security. Perhaps the risks of limiting territorial defence: Of course, any such project brings risks, but it can be completely eliminated by quality legislation. Of the possible objections was often mentioned in the discussions the politicalization of territorial defence and the possibility of abuse, which prevents strict emphasis on the politicality of territorial defence, which would be guaranteed by the standards of the Army of the Czech Republic. Some might mind that military training will be given primarily the most patriotic part of the nation, but this cannot be a complication for a democratic state. To obtain a well-trained member of territorial defense, according to the concept, would take longer than the current active advances, which is the argument for starting reforms on time. If the service for active backups and for professional soldiers is more attractive in terms of finance, training and access for the highest quality and most prospective candidates than the implementation of territorial defence, then there is no risk that the concept will limit the number of interested professional soldiers or active advances. On the contrary, in time it would rather produce the opposite effect given by a more positive perception of the army by the public. There were also concerns that a large number of candidates for territorial defence could be absolving volunteers, for example, to voluntary firefighters. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to support these beneficial organisations conceptually, thereby making the most optimal use of available human resources. In addition, some of the roles of territorial defence and voluntary firefighters are intersecting and, at the same time, complementing them appropriately within the integrated rescue system. The limits on the use of territorial defence are laid down in the primary condition of the majority of those interested in territorial defence, which is the primary link to their region, where only a smaller part of the territorial defence members could be motivated to volunteer outside their region. Human resources: The concept presented is able by its focus to reach a much wider group of citizens than active backups, which should focus primarily on students and fresh graduates and motivate them to cooperate with the military for a long time. The territorial defence can primarily build only on the rifle community, which can handle weapons and whose membership base is large in the Czech Republic. It's over 300,000 weapons licenses. The concept of territorial defence is more optimal, however, to open for all citizens of the Czech Republic who will meet the required conditions in terms of criminal integrity, health and mental fitness. This extension brings the advantage of a larger number of potential volunteers and it is also a more civic approach. A certain disadvantage would be greater differentiation in quality, cost and motivation of volunteers from the ranks of the shooting and non-shooting community. The solution could be the creation of a national rifle association with the participation of the Army of the Czech Republic and possibly the Ministry of Interior, which would provide not only basic training with weapons for those interested in territorial defence from the ranks of non-shooters and examined the basic skills of shooters interested in entering territorial defence, especially regarding the safe handling of weapons. Furthermore, this shooting club could participate in the use and construction of military shooting galleries, organizing shooting competitions and public shooting days under the patronage of the Army of the Czech Republic. Perspectives of concept development: If the concept is appropriately grasped and supported legislatively and financially, it has the potential to bring in the army over the next decade at least by the order of more candidates, as is the case with active backups. This project needs to be primarily addressed as a dynamic system, which, with an increasing number of volunteers, can gradually fulfil all these roles after reaching at least 15 000 to 20,000 people. From the point of view of the real possibilities of our society, in the next decade, this situation may more than double and thus be a full alternative to restoring compulsory military service in terms of the mass involvement of citizens in the defence of the state. It can be assumed that territorial defense would fit into the lives of citizens as naturally as volunteer firefighters or once sharpshooting associations and would thus be a natural bridge between citizens and a professional army. Emphasis on development should be placed on the skills that are the primary purpose of territorial defence, and the motivation of citizens to participate in it. During the development of the concept of territorial defence, it is not possible to change significantly clearly defined conditions and risk losing the trust of its own people in the military and the state itself. It is in the military's interest to use the gradual development of territorial defence to acquire capabilities, equipment, training facilities, to develop the ability to mobilise as quickly and efficiently as possible. Conclusion: The key issue of the future of the army of the Czech Republic and the defence of the Czech Republic is the ability of citizens of this state to identify with their state and their willingness to participate in their defences. Today's form of the Czech Army and its planned full state, including active backups, cannot solve satisfactorily the protection of critical infrastructure and our borders. Therefore, it is necessary to seek new and, in particular, viable ways of fulfilling the main purpose of every army of a democratic state, and this must always be primarily the protection of its own territory and of its own people. In society we have a relatively large group of motivated citizens not only from among shooters who would be willing to participate in the defense of the state. For most of them, however, the existing concept of active advances is not suitable for a number of reasons such as time, family, guarantee territorial competence and so on. [[9.20 hours]] It is this concept of territorial defence that reflects these requirements and is so attractive that it brings a sufficient number of volunteers to the service in this folder of the Army of the Czech Republic, while being able to provide sufficient quality for these candidates for the given tasks. The concept of territorial defence can help significantly at relatively low costs to address current security risks, and it also has other beneficial effects for both the Army of the Czech Republic and for society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, first, I'm going to introduce the House to the apologies received, and then there's one priority right. So the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek apologizes from nine to the end of the day for working reasons, then for yesterday from 22, 23 a.m. to the end of the day I apologize to the Minister of the Environment, Mrs Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš sends an apology from 16 to 18. 2. and finally, Mr Jan Volný sends an apology for illness by the end of the day. That would be an apology so far. And I will therefore ask Mr Marek Benda with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make two proposals, first a proposal for a new point in this meeting, in order to include a point in the Report, proposals and other points in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Section 1 (1). 2 of the Rules of Procedure governing the internal circumstances of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not suggesting a fixed period of time yet, but I feel that after what's been going on here for the last 18 hours, we may have to react in some way. The second proposal I would like to make is a procedural proposal, and I am giving it on behalf of the members of the government coalition, and that is, to act today and vote after 19, 21 and 24 hours, because I consider a situation in which we have not been able to reach the proposal for 18 clean hours of our negotiations, we are still acting outside the programme, for completely absurd, for a demonstration of how, in particular, part of the opposition is trying to destruct the work of the Chamber of Deputies at all costs, and I think it is not possible to proceed to this, and we will have to spend the night here to endure this endless marathon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u9	Thank you, I'm gonging. A procedural proposal has been made, so we will wait a little while for Members and Members to return to the hall. Yes, I'll check everyone out, please log in with your registration cards. To make it quite clear what we are voting on - we will proceed to the vote on voting after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. I'm gonna wait a little while longer before the math settles... So the numbers have settled. And then I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 7, 158 of the Members present were in favour of 98, against proposal 59, and I note that this proposal has been approved. Thank you and we can therefore continue with the properly logged in. Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská is also on the agenda. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, representatives of the government, I...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u11	I'll ask for peace of mind, Madame. Certainly, colleagues and colleagues will understand and transfer discussions to the foyer. Thank you very much for leaving the co-worker's room at peace. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u12	Thank you and I would like to thank the President of the ODS for reminding us that they really have a majority here. We know that. However, I propose to include the press number 10 at the meeting of the House, it is the proposal of the Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Jan Hrnčíř and others to issue a law amending Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on Judges, Executors and Enforcement Activities, the so-called Enforcement Order, and on the amendment of other laws, as amended. It is a draft law which introduces the regional local jurisdiction of the executor and thus strengthens its impartiality and independence from the mandatory. The real regulation of enforcement proceedings in the Czech Republic does not allow the practical application of the impartiality of the judicial executor as a public authority. The current adjustment creates an uneven relationship between the creditor and the debtor. Allow me to justify my proposal in detail. I would like to evaluate the legal situation in force. The basic principles of the executor's activities are set out in Section 2 of Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities, the so-called execution order. In Section 2 of this Act, paragraph 2 of the Law states: 1: "The executor carries out execution activities independently, in carrying out execution activities he is bound only by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, by laws, by other laws and decisions of the court issued in proceedings for the execution of enforcement proceedings." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2: "The executor is obliged to pursue his profession conscientiously and in his performance and in his civil life to refrain from anything that might undermine the dignity of the executive profession or to jeopardise confidence in the independent, impartial and fair performance of the execution of the execution activity. " The requirements for the executor's activities are therefore defined in a similar manner as those for the Judge's activities. Pursuant to § 28 of the second sentence, the executor's actions are considered to be acts of the execution court. This provision establishes the status of judicial executor as a public authority, subject to its impartiality. However, the real regulation of enforcement proceedings in the Czech Republic does not allow the practical application of these principles, according to the views of all submitters. Paragraph 28 of the Enforcement Order states that the execution is conducted by the executioner, who is designated by the authorised executioner and registered in the register of executions initiated. This creates a situation where the executioner is to be independent and impartial, but is actually chosen by one party to the dispute, which, as described in detail below, is economically dependent. A person exercising the powers of a public authority, whether a judge, official or even a forest guard, must always act impartially. In proceedings before public authorities, it is extremely unusual for one of the parties to the proceedings to choose separately, regardless of the will of the counterparty, a specific official person to lead the proceedings and to decide. For example, it is unthinkable for the plaintiff to unilaterally appoint a judge in a court of law. From this point of view, the status of judicial executors is abnormal, and as the circle of issues on which the executor decides is gradually expanding, it is also becoming increasingly less sustainable. This unequal relationship between the creditor and the debtor has already been attacked by a group of senators in the Constitutional Court. [[9.30 hours]] Economic independence is one of the main prerequisites for independence. Moreover, this assumption was already stated in the explanatory memorandum to the execution order itself. Independence - as well as economics on the state - is a prerequisite for the executioner's impartiality in the execution of execution activities. The delegation of the State to this activity gives the executor public confidence, authority and seriousness. The Constitutional Court is also of the same opinion when it stated in numerous findings on the salaries of judges that one of the pillars of the independence of judges is material collateral. Appropriately, this should also apply to judicial bailiffs. However, in the case of enforcement proceedings, there is a clear dependence between one of the parties to the proceedings, that is legitimate, and a judicial executor. This is a procedural and economic dependence. The executioner should not only protect the legitimate interests in the proceedings, but supervise the legality of the entire proceedings and also protect the interests of the debtor if there is a threat of breach. In practice, however, executors are pushed not to do so, because they would not be chosen next time to execute execution. In the case of so-called institutional creditors, they often manage thousands of claims. There could be a liquidation of the executor's change. This condition is not desirable. The original plan was clear - the executioner will be economically motivated to recover the claims as best he can, thereby increasing its profit. At present, however, there are often cases where the executor is forced to go beyond the law or to choose disproportionate funds, otherwise his economic existence would be threatened. Narrow factual and contractual relations between bailouts and creditors create reasonable doubts as to the independence and impartiality of their decision-making. The applicants are familiar with the opinion of the Constitutional Court, issued on 12 September 2006, where the Constitutional Court rejects the comparison of the position of executor and judge, because - I quote: "The fundamental decisions relating to enforcement proceedings are left to an impartial independent and to the outcome of the execution of a substantively non-participating court. The fact that the law, i.e. the order of execution, transferred some of the jurisdiction of the court to the judicial executor does not, therefore, establish an equal status of judge and executor." However, this opinion reflects the legal situation in 2006. Since then, there have been several changes to the legislation that have substantially strengthened the status of judicial executor. The petitioners thus consider the position to be outdone. A significant extension of the executor's authorisation was granted by Act No. 286/2009 Coll., effective on 1. 11. 2009. The judicial executor has been entrusted with the right to remedy the defects of the filing. It is Section 43, the decision on the application for suspension of execution, on the proposal and suspension of execution, on the proposal of a third party to remove the matter from the inventory, to conduct a timetable and to issue a decision on the calendar for the proceeds of the auction of immovable property and others. The executor shall also appoint a compulsory guardian or act as a court of first instance in appeal proceedings. Other changes have been made. Act No. 396/2012 Coll., the so-called big amendment to the Enforcement Order, has further strengthened the position of the executor. The bailiff may now, in specified cases, decide to reject or reject an execution application. That can put an end to the entire procedure. In the hands of the executor, virtually all prime decision-making in the execution procedure, including the decision-making process, was thus concentrated. Finally, Law No. 139/2015 Coll. has transferred to the executor the power to decide on the spouse's proposal to suspend the execution if the execution is affected by property in the spouse's joint property to a greater extent than the legal scope, which was originally a question dealt with by the court in the context of an excission action. The executor therefore already decides on the issue of substantive law, which was previously reserved to the courts. It is therefore wrong to think that the executor is merely an executor of matters that have been decided by the court. It's the bailiff who decides how to execute the execution. Thus, he is not only a passive recipient and an executor of the will of the court. It decides how the court's decision will be executed, with the effects of the various methods on the mandatory being diametrically different. The later amendments to the order of execution were entrusted to the executioners to decide on an ever wider range of questions. It is clear from the above that, over time, the executor's status has been transformed from the executor of a judicial decision - even here he had considerable scope to consider, for example, the choice of execution method - into a public authority entrusted with decision-making on a wide range of issues both procedural and substantive. The current situation, when one party chooses an executor, is no longer sustainable. Apart from these problems of legal nature, however, the current regulation also brings a number of problems of purely practical nature. Since the creditor of the selected executioner can be from any place in the Czech Republic, the frequent occurrence is a large physical distance between the executioner and the mandatory one. On the part of the debtor, it is difficult to look into the file, pay the debt in cash at the cash desk or to communicate personally with the executor overall. This significantly complicates the ability to deal effectively with incurred debts. Moreover, the executor from a remote destination may not have a perfect knowledge of the conditions on the part of the compulsory or overall knowledge of the conditions of the compulsory region in which he lives. The disadvantage associated with a large physical distance is the increased cost of travel and the execution of mobiliar executions, which, on the part of socially weak obliged, threaten their motivation and sufficient resources to repay claims. The considerable costs and problems are associated with the number of executors in a single mandatory one. In cases where one mandatory multiple executors is subject to an obligation to pay costs in many parallel running procedures. Their amount often exceeds the original claim. This reduces overall the possibility for the debtor to pay the original recovery claim. The enforcement of the law is falling. It is not possible to forget the costs of other institutions concerned associated with the mandatory. That's the employer, the bank, and other institutions. All these subjects have to communicate with many executives today. The costs and administrative activities are being dubbed. Moreover, these institutions are at risk of being fined if they miss a reply, which can easily happen under the amount of administrative burden. [[9.40 hours]] Moreover, the system justified motivates the recovery of the irrefutable claim, because there is no fee for the initiation and management of the execution. The execution system is so overused. In addition, the period of execution is not limited and in vain execution is usually conducted until the competent authority has given its consent to stop it. Unfortunately, this is not usually due to the imminent loss of order in the debtor's payment schedule and the limitation of the claim. The execution runs endlessly and their number increases. In this adjustment, the entitled person could easily, after determining the executor, give himself an idea of whether his claim was extenuable. The executor would record all newly incurred claims of the debtor. The proposed bill introduces the regional local jurisdiction of executors, the so-called principle of territoriality, and the merging of executions required by one executor - the principle of "one debtor, one executor". According to the current regulation, the enforcement procedure is initiated by a proposal submitted to the executioner. The creditor would now submit his proposal to the enforcement court, which is, with the exception of the district court in the place of permanent residence, compulsory. According to a clearly established key, the court would designate an executor based in the same region as the execution court, i.e. the permanent residence of the debtor. Any further execution against the compulsory one will then be assigned by the court to the same previously appointed executor. This will result in a merger of executions with one executor in the permanent residence of the debtor. As a result of this adjustment, the impartiality of the executor and his independence from the legitimate ones will be strengthened, because the claims will be assigned to him by the court, so he will not have to actively seek them himself and submit to one side of the dispute. In this way, the enforcement of the law will increase even for small creditors, as in current practice the bailiffs often prefer the claims of large creditors. The bailiff will also not be motivated for competitive reasons to reject the advance for the management of the execution. By leading all executions one executioner will thus obtain a mandatory overview of the number of executions against the compulsory and real enforcement of claims through the executioner and through it. A reduction in the number of so-called futile, inefficient executions can therefore be expected. The knowledge of the local conditions on the executor's side will therefore increase the enforcement of the right for the entitled, and the protection of the rights of the compulsory ones will increase, as there will be an increase in the availability of the executors, whether for payment of the amount recovered, the solution of the payment schedules, or for a simple possibility of accessing the execution file. By merging the execution of one debtor under one executor, a significant administrative burden will also be removed for third parties. Employers, insurance companies, banks etc. they will handle only one request for information for one executor, not a quantity of the same applications for multiple executors managing the claim of one debtor. Moreover, the merger will reduce the costs of the proceedings, which will increase the possibility of repayment on the part of the debtor. According to the research carried out, the local jurisdiction of judicial executors in Europe is very strong and it is a traditional principle that is introduced in most Member States of the European Union. It is appropriate to state that the proposed principle of territoriality and merger of executions, which this amendment deals with, has previously received the support of the executive chamber itself. From the resolution adopted by the Chamber of Executors on 27 May 2014 in Brno: "The Executive Chamber of the Czech Republic, as an autonomous state organization of all judicial executors, supports the accelerated implementation of the system of local jurisdiction of judicial executors with the equal allocation of executions to judicial executions locally competent by place of residence/necessary seat and asks for the accelerated implementation of legislative changes which will lead to the introduction of this principle guaranteeing the effective impartiality and independence of judicial executors and will eliminate the situation in which executioners are competing entrepreneurs seeking to obtain as much execution as possible. As the supreme executor body, the Chamber of Executors shall impose on the Presidentship of the Chamber and its members actively promote the establishment of a system of local jurisdiction of judicial executors with an equal allocation of executions to judicial executors locally competent according to the place of residence/membership of the debtor'. So many quotes. On 1 July 2015, the Government even gave a favourable opinion on the Senate bill on the establishment of local jurisdiction. Nevertheless, this proposal was never discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. The introduction of territoriality is also part of the Government's Action Plan for the Strategy against Social Exclusion for the period 2016 to 2020, which was approved in autumn 2016. I would now like to explain the necessity of the proposed legislation in its entirety. Given that the shortcomings described above are systemic in nature and originate directly in the law, the petitioner sees no other option but to propose a change in the order of execution, so that the determination of executors is no longer in the hands of one of the parties to the proceedings, thereby interrupting the personal and economic dependence of the public authority on the appellant. Other solutions have also been considered, such as the possibility only of the first compulsory choice of executor, whose choice would then be bound by additional mandatory, enhanced supervision of executors, determination of executor by court on the basis of free consideration or algorithm. However, none of these solutions was eligible for or would have achieved the desired objective, but with considerable costs. In the past, the government has promised to submit comprehensive legislation. However, such a proposal has never been tabled. The last government proposal that dealt with this issue was submitted to the Interministerial Commentary Procedure in October 2016, but it was never discussed by the Government and it was not submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. There is therefore no choice but to address the question by means of a parliamentary initiative. The proposed amendment is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. On the contrary, the petitioners believe that the current legal situation may be contrary to constitutional order. After all, the current regulation is already being challenged before the Constitutional Court. In today's legislation, the bailiff is in a position stronger than the execution order gave him at the time of its introduction in 2001. The bailiff is now deciding on many procedural and factual issues, partly replacing tasks previously reserved only to the courts. [[9.50 hours]] At present, the executor is chosen by one party to the dispute, i.e. justified. Such an adjustment may potentially be contrary to Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 36 and 38 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. Each person may claim his or her right under the established procedure in an independent and impartial court and, in specified cases, with another authority. The Executor cannot be considered independent and impartial as it is chosen by one party to the dispute and is also economically dependent on this party to the dispute. In the case of so-called institutional creditors, this problem is even greater, as, given the volume of execution, there is a strong economic bond and dependence between such creditor and executioner. Article 2 (1) (a) Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 1 And he saith that no one shall be taken away from his lawful judge. The jurisdiction of both the court and the judge shall be governed by the law. If the executor has gradually taken over a significant part of the decisions previously reserved to judges, he shall be placed as a similar judge, so it shall be applied mutatis mutandis to him or her. 38 papers. However, if the executioner chooses one party to the dispute, this requirement is not met. It should also be noted that the constitutional guarantees referred to in Article 3 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 are not applicable. 36 and 38 shall apply to any proceedings. The Charter does not distinguish the procedure of finding and executing and cannot distinguish them, because even in the enforcement procedure there is a decision on rights and obligations, so there must be the same guarantees. The proposed regulation abolishes the possibility of one-sided choice of executor, which will be newly awarded by the court, automatically on the basis of the so-called wheel. While the proposed regulation contains several exceptions - for example, the possibility of an executor rejecting a mandate or changing an executor, these exceptions are strictly limited by the legal conditions under which the court will supervise compliance. It can therefore be concluded that the proposed regulation describes the constitutional guarantees and the protection of the right to a fair trial in the enforcement procedure. Whatever the Constitutional Court's conclusion on the constitutionality of the current regulation, the proposed regulation will lead to an improvement in the situation in any case. Assessment of the compatibility of the proposed legislation with European Union law: Since European Union law does not in any way regulate procedural issues before national courts, the proposal does not affect issues governed by EU law. The execution of enforcement activities is an exercise of public authority, nor is it possible to apply a European regulation concerning the single market. A conflict with European Union law could theoretically occur if the proposed regulation undermines the enforcement of substantive European law, but that is not the case. The proposed regulation does not reduce the enforcement of the law of both Czech and European. Indeed, the territorial principle of executor activity is common in most European Union countries and has never been called into question in terms of compliance with European Union law. This is therefore a question of the law of the European Union that has not been corrected, so the proposed regulation does not call for non-compliance with the law of the European Union. On the issue of compliance with international treaties, what has already been said about the compliance of the proposal with constitutional order can be applied mutatis mutandis. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 The Convention on the Protection of The bill's petitioner believes that the existing regulation may be contrary to these provisions, so he proposes a proposed amendment that will ensure the protection of the rights contained in the article. 6 of the Convention. The budgetary implications of the proposed adjustment can be expected in particular on the part of the courts. However, this is largely the return of the agenda, which was transferred to the executives in 2009 and 2013, i.e. the formal control of execution proposals. A completely new agenda is the determination of executors, but this is a mechanical act and can be largely automated. In addition, both formal control of proposals and mandate can be achieved by making considerable savings by linking with the current agenda of issuing a mandate to conduct execution, which is already in the courts today. A completely new agenda is the decision to object to the illegal designation of the executor and the decision to change the executor. However, this decision will concern only a small part of the enforcement proceedings and, at the same time, it cannot be expected to overuse them, since the use of these institutes has no suspensive effect. However, savings will also be made on the part of the courts. The enforcement court shall act as an appeal body in many proceedings conducted by the executioner. Nowadays, there is no exception that it is mandatory for it to achieve a certain procedural result that it must do the same act against all its executives. So he will now do these actions against one bailiff for all his proceedings, and he will be able to defend himself with a single remedy, which the court will decide only once. The change in question will have a positive impact on specific groups of persons, in particular persons socially weak, as there will be a series of executions to approach the executors mandatory. The debtor will thus not have to spend unnecessarily high amounts to travel to the executor. Similarly, the costs of execution should be reduced, or even the executioner will not have to spend high amounts on travel expenses in cases of large distance of the executor's residence and the debtor's residence. Third parties, such as authorities, employer, health insurance company, bank, real estate cadastral and others, will reduce the costs of administration related to the handling of identical requirements by executors. It can be expected that the declining recovery costs due to the merger under one executor will increase the motivation of the debtor to pay off debts and therefore leave the grey economy by obtaining legal employment. On the part of the state, it is then possible to expect a contribution to the state budget thanks to income taxes. For the same reason, the increased enforcement of the right on the part of the beneficiary is assumed, which will benefit the business environment as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u13	Madame, I am now going to call you back to the point, as we had to do today during the last night's meeting. Please, in accordance with § 59 para. 4 the case must be referred to. The width of your justification for your proposed point is really very, very extensive. Please get to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u14	Thank you for your warning, Madam President, but I nevertheless think that the execution and impact of executions on our fellow citizens is a rather important subject. So I took the liberty of explaining it quite thoroughly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u15	Thank you. You may proceed, but please get to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u16	Thank you. So I will leave out the economic implications of the budget. And I can say that the proposed amendment does not introduce a new processing of personal data - registers, databases and records that are being worked with in the proposal, because they all already exist. The proposed modification does not extend the range of personal data processed or extends the circle of persons entitled to access it. [[10.00 hours]] As far as corruption risks are concerned, the executioner will be determined automatically, gradually, according to the list. This eliminates the human element to the maximum and therefore limits the scope for corruption. Several new situations are created in the law where decisions are made by public authorities, namely courts. In particular, the change of the executor and the appointment of the executor, which is not newly decided by the court, is completely newly designed. There may be some corruption risks involved. However, in any event, this is an improvement in the current situation, when it was the only person who made the decision on this matter. However, all this newly proposed decision-making is entrusted to the courts and judges, where the safeguards against corruption risks are very high. In standard situations it will be decided automatically, or without consideration, in special situations it will then be decided by the judge. Thus, higher protection against corruption risks can hardly be imagined. I would suggest this point because, in my opinion, it is really very important to put it before all the proposed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u17	Thank you, Mrs Schiller, I have this proposal registered, and I have now been notified - with priority rights, President Alena Schillerová is signed in, and then Mr Zdeněk Kettner can be prepared. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm not going on a specific point, I'm going on a proposal. I don't know how many hours we've been here, I don't count it, we've got ten hours on the second day. It's not that we're tired, it's not, but it's that it's not going anywhere, and this meeting, in my opinion and our club's opinion, has a completely different priority. The priority is the national budget for 2022, which this country needs. I say this as the Finance Minister, I say this in the knowledge that I will be a critic of this budget, that is, of course, to be expected. I say this in the knowledge that the club of the ANO movement will not support it, but I also say that this country needs a budget and that every day the commission is not good for it. So I beg you, Madam Vice-President, please call a political grémium, call a representative of the clubs and let us find a way to put the state budget on the agenda for this meeting. We're not gonna build it. Let the SPD come forward, but I've heard from them that they don't want to be built either. I heard it in public space, I don't speak for them, but they said it in public space. Let's find a way, set up a state budget and start discussing it, because this country can be without the pandemic law, but it can't be without the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u19	Thank you, Madam President. There was a clear suggestion, and I'm going to ask if the club presidents here want to comment on it, and I would invite them to my place, because we should discuss it. So let's have some two, three minutes for a meeting with the club presidents here. I'm interrupting until 10.07. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 10.04 to 10.07 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short grémium on the basis of an agreement with the other heads of the Members' Clubs and the House. I'm interrupting until 10:30. Then we'll meet again here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u20	Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the negotiations. We're on the agenda. Before I call in another logged in, I have here with priority the registered Minister of the Interior, Mr. Vít Rakušan. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u21	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not here as Chairman of the STAN movement, I am here as Minister of the Interior, your fellow Member with one urgent appeal. We have been experiencing hard political work here in the last few days, from both sides, from the opposition, from the government coalition. We can argue over the line, which is not over the line, but we all still see that what is happening here is the political work that is due to the fact that we have been elected to Parliament, that we are politically responsible and that we ourselves as individuals must, of course, bear the consequences of what we are doing here and what we are saying here. This discussion between us isn't easy, and it doesn't look like it's gonna be easy in the next few hours. I'd like you all to sit here, here, here, here, or there, to ask for one thing. There's a red line that we all have to agree on, and it doesn't matter what political spectrum which one of us is, and the red line is a direct threat to our families and our loved ones. I call on all of you, whether you are from any part of the political spectrum, I beg you - there is nothing else left for me - to reject, on your social networks, the publication of the addresses of the Members and Members who voted in favour of the pandemic law. These addresses were published when we are sitting here, we will sit here for a long time, so it is not an attack on us, because we are here in the hall and are protected by the protection service of the Police of the Czech Republic. This is an attack on our families, on our parents living with us, on our wives, on our husbands and children. If we don't refuse this kind of procedure, whether we're rooting for those people in the square or not, whether we're sending them positive messages here or not, whether we disappoint them or please them, but if all of us can't turn this off, it'll turn on us, because this practice will continue and on and on and on and on and on and on with other legal standards, it'll happen to you. It just happened to us. Of course, as Minister of the Interior, I gave a clear instruction to the Police of the Czech Republic, and I would like to assure all my colleagues and colleagues that their families are safe. Police of the Czech Republic are monitoring the situation very closely at this time and are taking all the operational measures related to this. But this is not an attack on individual MPs, this is an attack on our loved ones. The debate between us may be tough, but let's say everyone in this room, and let's show it by saying it on social media, let's show it by addressing our constituents, that there's a red line somewhere. Our families are not part of the political struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u22	I thank the Home Secretary for his performance with priority rights. We are now on the agenda and I would like to see Mr Zdeněk Kettner come to the speaker's desk on the draft agenda. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. But before I give you another word, I will ask everyone in the Chamber for peace of mind. And if there's something you need to take care of, something you need to do, please go to the lobby of the meeting room. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u23	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, aside from the suggestion on that point, I would like to respond to the Minister. I totally agree with his opinion. Any attack on family members is way, way over the line. But I'd like it to be measured all over the place by the same subway. In that case, I would appreciate it if there were no such adjectives as extremist, fascist, xenophob to my address. The result is that the public is attacking us, of course. As a result, my campaign poster has a Hitler moustache and a foot that my 70-year-old mother saw, and because she knows me, she wasn't exactly well after her body. I agree, but I want everyone to be measured by the same subway. [[Weak applause from the left.]] I am speaking with the proposal for a debate on the issue of endangering freedom of thought and expression. I am constantly meeting this, I think that this is an important topic on which we should talk. The right to free speech is derived from the tradition of the great French revolution and has become an icon in building all modern, liberal and democratic societies. It is understood as an integral part of human rights and enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, approved in 1948 by the UN General Assembly. At the time, the Communist Czechoslovakia abstained in its approval. [[11.20 hours]] This declaration is then derived from the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, adopted at the UN meeting in 1966. The Czechoslovak Socialist Republic agreed to this pact in 1968, but it did not come into force until 1976. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 19 talks about the right to defend your opinion without a barrier and the right to free speech. These two documents are then followed up by a number of other conventions and so on. Under communism, there was a joke: What is the difference between communism and capitalism? That in both regimes people have the right to free speech, but in capitalism they have the right to freedom even after speech. Which is where we slowly get to the fact that this is how it slowly ceases to be. After November 1989, what only de iure paid for communism was de facto, but only for a while. The winners can never be generous. So the supporters of love and truth who fought for freedom of speech immediately after they took power began to restrict the freedom of expression of the supporters of the defeated regime. Freedom of speech was valid for everyone and for everyone except the one who joined up with the ideology of losers. There was a debate about the ban on the Communist Party, and in the end there was a hybrid, the party was not forbidden, but propaganda of communist ideas did. Any speech that would advocate this ideology was considered to be a promotion...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u24	Mr Member, I will interrupt you and ask all Members to remain calm in the Chamber and ask all Members if they wish to take care of anything, to go to the lobby of the Chamber and not disturb anyone who is speaking at the speaker's desk. I'll wait a little longer, I'll ask for peace. Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Who would defend this ideology, eventually even remind and seek good things in those times. That was the first step into a liberally understood freedom of speech. And the next steps soon followed. It began to prohibit an expression that was not in the spirit of the official European doctrine, whether it was the postulates of ideological, the evaluation of historical events and personalities, and later in the spirit of escalation of human rights after critical expression on the address of various minorities or changes in the political system of Europe. So she took back the freedom of expression given by the various pacts, provisions and charters. We are witnessing this again in real time. When I went to school, I heard from the history teacher that the entire Czechoslovakia was liberated by the Soviet Union - virtually freed the whole of Europe. I don't know if it was just an individual speech by the teacher, but I think it was taken for some sort of standard back then. Thanks to my grandfather, I knew exactly that there were our Czechoslovak pilots in the RAF who got well-trained and were punished for having allowed themselves to fight on the wrong side of the front. When the revolution came, I naively assumed that there would be a balanced state, which means that we would show the same respect for both American and Western soldiers and those from Eastern Europe. And look, it doesn't happen that way. Under the former regime, the statues of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk and Edvard Beneš were destroyed, and now we're destroying the statues of the people that made us here, because if they hadn't freed us, I wouldn't even stand here because I was a bad race, I don't have blue eyes, I'm not blonde, I wouldn't be here anymore. And that's a thing that is incredibly shocking and sorry. We need to realize that there was some Ivan, some Sergej who may not even know which country he was dying in. His main concern was to come home, and he died here. He died, and we're here, so any kind of disrespect, and it doesn't matter what side of the barricade of the dead, he's just unacceptable to me and he's over the line. The basic justification for introducing so-called political correctness is seemingly nice thesis: Have freedom of speech, but in your words you must not harm others. And so various offences and crimes began to get into criminal law, the essence of which was that someone had spoken about something or someone else other than what they were allowed to do. Kind of reminds us of something, doesn't it? So, despite the fact that freedom of expression is legally guaranteed by Art. 17 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, has gradually created various restrictions imposed by the law. And there aren't many. In some cases they are broad, general, very vague and in a certain situation, under a certain grip they can whip at any time and absolutely anyone. There are, of course, different comments, regulations, decrees, but only people have them in their hands. And we know that laws are always interpreted in the way they fit the ruling layers and, as contemporary ideologies allow. And this lady who's blindfolded to be impartial - sometimes I think it's to be blind. For example, an example for the idea of what freedom of expression is limited under the current criminal code: at least twelve paragraphs: unauthorized handling of personal data, slander, the spread of pornography, toxism, defamation of the nation, ethnic groups, races and beliefs, incitement to hatred against a group of persons, the dissemination of alarms, incitement to crime, but also approval, expression of sympathy for the movement, denial, questioning, approval of genocide, incitement to attack war. There are several points that definitely belong in a decent society, because such a deed should certainly not be publicly defended, approved or described as something worthy of following, but of course it is hard to praise junkies, murders and so on. Well, on the other hand, it shouldn't be a completely puritanical taboo. We should be able to speak freely and express different views. It's not easy to determine the right level, and it depends on the people, but it's completely entrusted to the authorities to define some strict boundaries, that's a little bit of a problem. Thanks to contemporary activism, which constantly expands the concept of human rights and minority rights, which is generally the problem of all legal norms, that we have some clear interpretation based on sound human sense, and then certain interest groups appear and it amends, improves, improves, kosats, baskets, and then we have to have several special lawyers for every kind of law, even those themselves have problems to confess, and as a whole nobody understands the legal system at all. [[11.30 hours]] And when I talk about activism, the concept of human rights and minorities is constantly expanding, and the negative view of the LGBT community, the various sex beings, or illegal migrants, is becoming a crime, and all that matters is the enlightenment of the judge if such a case lands on his desk, how he stands up to her. And it's getting tougher. Thus, the formulation of laws limiting freedom of expression is very general, such as incitement. What is this, uh, inciting? It's not defined anywhere in the law, and what it is, it's an incitement to hatred if I write that I don't like a minority - I just don't like them. I believe there are some colleagues who don't like me, I don't know them personally, I've never done anything to them, but I believe they don't like me. For me, they have every right to do so, if in any way they don't attack me physically and so. In class, when I was teaching, I saw exactly what they thought of me on some of the faces of some of the students - in no way did I deal with it. I told them, you have every right to think in person what you want, but for God's sake, don't say it out loud, because I'd have to deal with it. So what's a particular insult or when I say I don't like a minority? We've got some artwork, jokes making fun of blondes, feminists and similar groups. So we're supposed to ban them as a joke? Humor was very famous for the Čech even during the previous regime. We fought for the normal world with that humor. How about some literary schematics? Take a novel by Christie Christie Ten Little Negroes. Well, he had to change his name to "There wasn't a single one zbýt." Why? It's part of history. Of course, we can explain to her, point out what was wrong in that history from our point of view today, but completely destroying, destroying, sharpening, that's the way to hell for me. Therefore, if we consistently apply the criminalisation of free speech, we would have to refrain from talking about most of the current events. In such a case, we should reduce all communication to very impotent and harmless topics - perhaps we could talk about the weather, but beware, we have to be careful not to arouse any environmental activists or food, but again we have to be careful not to be too specific, about some kind of wine I will say that some wine is puke, and to fear that the winery will sue me for losing a good reputation. Or I can talk about neighbors, but be careful not to break any law on personal data handling, and so on. Just freedom of speech belongs not only to the right to express your opinion, but it is much more complex. What is definitely part of expressing free thinking and expressing your opinion is communication. There are dozens of definitions of what communication is, and in reality it is not that simple, so it departs in several planes and in such a diverse context that a brief definition cannot capture the whole essence of the problem. Some professional concepts consider communication only the first page of the process, or mere communication or transmission of information. And sometimes, in the media space, it is claimed that a government or a politician communicates well or badly with the public - that is, it usually means that they either serve or do not provide information whether they do it in a clear, incomprehensible, late, completely or chaotic way. No one's answering them, it doesn't really matter, because that's not what it's really about. In Ciceronův's classic concept, it's supposed to be an interaction of ideas and messages. If someone is speaking from the bleachers or into the camera lenses, they certainly do not fill this content, even if they have a press spokesperson next to each other. Formally, this is a speech that does not respond to counterarguments that the audience would like to raise. It's kind of a one-way stream of information. The media conversation doesn't work either, because asking questions isn't a communication that's supposed to rub ideas, and it's hard to assume any opposition from moderators if they don't exactly have it stored from the editor and ready on the sheet. If the guest starts to talk about something else that isn't there, then he follows "hold on to the subject" and so on. It's obvious, we see it on public television, impartiality to look for a magnifying glass. Even now, in the current situation, they often sound directly personal opinions that just don't belong there. I think some of us have definitely experienced it on our own, and we're back to the double standard. Next up, we've got a promotion as such. We can rate the promotion as bad, as good, depending on the point of view, the promotion here is just there. American political scientist Lasswell laid theoretical foundations in his first published book and interprets propaganda as the most important tool of democratic systems to influence public opinion, by which the government acquires the support of most people for its intentions. It refers to her as meat. On the contrary, it does not view it ethically as bad, but it says that propaganda is synonymous with democracy. In his view, the media are supposed to influence public opinion behaviorally, which means that they are supposed to shape subconscious social behavior to help the government. This influence is so great that it talks about media determinism. So society is what the media create it. And this is what we should remember, because we are actually seeing with the development of social networks, with the development of the media as such, when really in the past, if something happened somewhere on the other side of the Republic, people learned in a week, who knows if. Today, when Anička burns the soup, in two minutes they know slowly even in Greenland. So the information transfer is constant, huge, and the media really have a huge impact. And now it's about how the media works with it. When I was still studying both in high school and in high school, I always appreciated journalists who were journalists with great N, who studied journalism, signed up for their articles, and they actually often put their lives on the line in war conflicts and brought us information that we, as ordinary citizens, did not have access to as normal people. But in vain, I remember at that time that a journalist would put his opinions in his reports. That's a completely different style after that, of course. A classic newspaper article is supposed to bring me information, the maximum possible information that can be obtained, put it in some sensible form, present it to the reader, and then let the reader deal with this information and develop his own judgment and his own opinion. It just doesn't work anymore. We're being pushed into positions here, these journalists are pushing. Because of course no man wants to be one of the bad guys, the journalists say, "This and this is bad." They don't ask the person's opinion about it, and they still say it in style: Everyone sees it, the whole society knows this is wrong, if you have a similar opinion, then you're bad too. And that's just wrong for me. [[11.40 hours]] You can often notice on various websites that journalism has been very often reduced to Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V keyboard shortcuts lately. One article appears, without any correction, any extension, suddenly appears on several different, even possibly unconnected servers. You won't even find any author there, there's some letter shortcut in parentheses. So if there are any false claims, you don't have a chance to find out who to turn to to to explain it to you, to stand by your word. And that's bad for me, too. Next, we have communications and manipulation. The essence of basic communication is to communicate something to others. That's what I've been saying - the journalist is only supposed to share information. However, every transmission of information is encrypted by the fact that we not only want to inform the other - but now we are getting to the problem - but also in most cases in some way influence it., mostly subconsciously, unintendedly. But by giving someone new information, I will at least influence it by broadening the horizons of his knowledge. That's what most regular conversations and communications look like. On the contrary, part of the communication is done with the direct intention of affecting each other, and neither side is hiding it. An example may be working communication, where we divide work or accept tasks. We can find more models like this, and it's a admittance. But beware, of course, there is a second way of communicating, and this is a targeted influence, but unconfessed, i.e. manipulation. It doesn't have to mean bad intentions in itself. It depends on what we want to achieve and what means we choose. Sometimes manipulative behavior is a euphemistic form of direct order. We can enter the task openly or in secret and so forth. This means again: communication is a good thing, the transmission of information is a good thing, but we are dealing with the manipulation and we have a very narrow line between how we evaluate the manipulation, whether it is the correct manipulation for some good purpose, or if it is a bad manipulation, because it is directed by the population in some direction that is socially unacceptable. But again, we come to the fact that we can maintain manipulation in some way in a personal way when we want to achieve some of our personal goals, but certainly, manipulation should not be used by the journalistic profession. Of course, we all know this is happening. Sometimes it's the manipulation caused by the media owner, sometimes it's the manipulation of the reporters themselves, it's some kind of personal initiative. Of course, I don't think that's a good thing. Another problem is distraction. Perhaps the most common method is to distract listeners through various skillfully formulated maneuvers. The use of a false dilemma is particularly popular. The speaker's claim is that he will offer the audience only one or two solutions, as if there were no other, thereby directing his thinking to the direction he needs. In this case, it is a clever application of the classic principle of aristotelian logic. Of course, the fact that there is no other option than yes or no is true in certain cases, for example in a court of law. Either the defendant is guilty or not guilty. However, in the world of manipulation, this principle is abused in situations where there are not only two possibilities, but there are more. Examples are humorous slogans, shouting sports fans: Who does not jump, is not Čech, hop, hop, hop. Someone can't jump. Does this mean that he is not Čech? However, false dilemmas are also used in aggressive media and political practice. Take, for example, an invitation: Whoever does not come to demonstrate on Letna supports corruption and aesthetics. Or: Who cares about the future of his children must prevent the felling of trees in Sumava. Or: Only seniors, peasants and people with lower education vote for Zeman. Of course, in all these cases, we know that there are a lot of other options, but the slogans are being downgraded -- you're simply faced with a done deal -- and they don't give any other choice. If we take it in the current situation, the company is divided into vaxers and anti-vaxers. That means either I want to inoculate everyone I can get my hands on, then we have a second group here that would burn the vaccines at the border. And we know very well that the truth will be somewhere in the middle. This means, of course, in some cases the vaccine helps, it is beneficial. Sometimes the person has a reason not to - sometimes it can be for health reasons, or he has come to this after some reasonable consideration. But if we stop respecting any possibility of free choice, then that's probably wrong again. Another way is the effect on emotions, or the arsenal of rhetorical and media means include not only logical equipment, but also the ability to influence the emotions of the listener. Through emotion or sentiment, we can beat logic. However, not all of these means work in public space. If you look at the harsh expressions of some television commentators or read the news of bloodthirsty tabloid journalists, you know right away that somebody won't be able to see them. The arguments calling for compassion are more private because the other person is more important to you. At times, it is better to act on feelings than to choose reasonable but unpleasant arguments. This means, in journalistic practice, that emotional play is some sort of manipulation. Something gets out of context, we arrange some photos to play on our feelings to make us feel guilty, and once again, the purpose is to force a person to choose the good group or the bad group. Of course, such manipulation should be responsible. Next we have juggling arguments. One of the most perverse arguments is the personal attack on the opponent by which the speaker wants to disprove his words, but he does not have enough relevant arguments. They therefore seek to turn their attention from the subject of discussion to the opponent. In scientific literature, this method is called ad hominem argumentum. So basic philosophy is obvious. It is necessary to give the impression that the opponent is uncharacteristic, incompetent, or otherwise morally crooked, regardless of what is actually being said. The ideal thing is to convert the whole polemics into this field. But if it is not possible, then it is at least a supportive argument that no opponent's views can be correct and correct when he himself is shameful. I'm also experiencing it on my own. I'm going to ask a specific question, and in my essence, the answer is that I'm actually a stupid espedician who can't read, and everyone knows I'm an extremist and racist, so they just won't listen to me. Even if I had a thousand arguments, it was something sensible, only my person would disqualify me from listening to me in any way. Anyone who understands a little bit of freedom of expression and some argument must give me the truth that this is just wrong. Of course, it is necessary to distinguish between the situations in which a party to the discussion is guilty of something and the discussion concerns the act on which it is responsible. If the professor illegally kicks the student out of rehearsal and he declares in an argument that he was biased, then it's probably true. Similarly, allegorical turnovers are relevant, which, based on experience and facts, attribute different negative characteristics to certain groups of companies. An experienced expression about people who do not behave the way they stand on the outside is "he preaches water and drinks wine. " This means juggling arguments, instead of using personal attacks, we certainly experience this on the political scene very often. I think we should think about it. It's really that double standard - I blame someone, it's wrong, look at him, ew, ew, ew, ew, then I'm doing exactly the same thing, but I'm the good guy, so my actions can't be bad, my actions must be good in their nature. So it's also a matter that I don't think should belong in that political culture when a politician blames his colleague. He himself shouldn't do such a thing. [[11.50 hours]] Another problem is playing with statistics. A common rhetorical trick, but especially a classic method of public opinion manipulation, is an incorrect treatment of statistical data that proves reality. In literary style, this technique is called a son-doc. Both, of course, can be found in the arsenal of media arguments. The basic prerequisite is that we do not share real, real data on how numerous the medialized phenomenon is in society. Only non-representative samples are presented, but at the same time the impression is that this is the essential and general problem that the report wants to focus on. For example, in the initial investigative commentary, we will learn that the state is poorly cared for by single mothers of single mothers, then one of the nonprofit organizations for single mothers comes forward and explains that according to their findings, our single mothers are the worst in the whole of the European Union. The following is a report about Mrs. XY, who lives with two underage children in an asylum house on an area of only 20 square meters, shows us a poorly furnished apartment, and Mrs. XY tells us how much she gets on welfare and that she can't live off of it. The whole thing will then be closed from the studio by the host and with a strict expression on her face she will announce that perhaps the state will finally address this urgent issue. Of course, I don't want to minimize the problem of such mothers, but from the point of view of communication, it is a classic model of misleading reasoning. How many single mothers are affected like this? Is it really their relevant sample? If not, this should definitely be addressed by the competent authority, but certainly not by the state, not to mention the declaration of a non-profit organisation about our position in the European Union, unless hard data is shown and the methodology of how the rankings were compiled is checked. Despite all this, the story of one single single mother presents itself as a typical example without looking at its real statistical frequency. So, of course, the statistics are powerful. We all know this saying: I believe in the election survey, but only the one I paid for myself. So I guess not exactly the ideal thing either. Another big problem is reality and a media image created, where the media image that doesn't correspond to reality causes irreversible processes in real life. For example, the war in Iraq began on the basis of false reports of US intelligence services on Saddám Husajn's nuclear potential, which the US and European media willingly published, and although, of course, she did not have the opportunity to verify them, no democratic medium questioned them and called for military intervention, as this was their task. The problem with the information that is presented to us is that it is not the information of sui generis, it is always just a cut of a particular side of the pie that is to prove a given political or ideological attitude. And, as you can see, their power is that they can help start a war if the government doesn't verify the facts, or doesn't want to verify it. And it would be awkward for us to believe everything that the media has to offer. As we need to compare and verify reports during historical studies from various sources, we should do so when reading newspapers and watching television, when listening to news, when communicating on social networks, just wherever information appears. We do not need an office for what is and is not true, because even an official is only human and works according to the task of a group of powerful, wise activists not to mention. Common sense is much more than a European Union summit or a diploma from Soros University. We're there when this guy has to make his own and full picture, he's got to have a wide shot. And now we're watching direct publicity and support, as they call it - now I've lost the word - censorship, sorry. That means censorship is being promoted here. There is an exact message, it is not yet directly a ban on specific newspapers, it is actually a kind of sub-strip like pushing sponsors not to give these media funding so that they don't advertise them, and it actually starves them economically. But who will determine which media is right and which is wrong? Of course, the good guys who think we're "we're good with everybody" again. And we're getting to that - just as well as the members of the former regime meant it. They defended their censorship in exactly the same way. I remember the scream of November 17th "we're not like them," but we're starting to be just like them. And it's even worse that we already have the experience, we can look into the past and somehow evaluate it, but we completely ignore it. Next thing we know, man is a social creature and he needs to communicate. Of course, many people need direct communication with their surroundings, and for millennia it was only by talking to people who met each other. Only modern technology brought the possibility of remote transmission and created a psychological dependence on mass communication, which, of course, I think we know from our own surroundings, even from children and the like, that classical common communication shrunk on the screen of mobile phones, laptops, tablets, flashing all kinds of screens, and communication is failing. That's why I think digitalization in education isn't... it is definitely necessary, but given the situation of how society is moving, it should not be built on it whole. I myself witnessed with my friends, we went to the pub for a beer. Why did we go there? To not only drink, but to talk, to laugh. Two couples sat in the next box, I'd say about 25 years old. They sat down, pulled out their cell phones, didn't exchange a word, put their cell phones away for a while, when the waiter came out to order, the waiter left, and they went back to their cell phones. It seemed to me for a while that they were sitting next to each other, but they were texting each other or sending each other smiley faces, and it looked creepy. So we really shouldn't go that way. I'll keep going. It is from this fact that a theory was derived that explains the unification of the media's influence on individuals through isolation of those who refuse to adapt to media-proclaimed attitudes. In media theory, this model is referred to as a spiral of silence. The essence is the undisputed fact that people are afraid to stand alone against the rest of society. However, it is not the fear of endangering one's own existence, but the irrational fear of staying in isolation and being alone. This feeling is natural and determined by the nature of our species. Each individual subconsciously analyzes what positions are majority in his surroundings, and then expresses them without fear. On the contrary, minority views hide and often do not dare to publicise them. That is why majority opinions are being heard more often and more intensely in society than their real quantification would be if we were able to affect people's real thinking. We might be surprised if the European population's attitudes to current ideological problems could be expressed statistically precisely, but those people are simply afraid, and that is another sad fact. Those people are starting to worry about publicly expressing their opinion of things that are being pushed by the media as something unacceptable, harmful, almost criminal. Sometimes I talk to people, they say to me, "I voted for you, but I don't want to say it at work, I'm afraid they'd start doing it on purpose." That this is also reflected in education, I also have a personal experience where the company that provided IT to us participated in the involvement of audiovisual technology at one of the unnamed grammar schools where politics was discussed as such. Now there was a preference for individual parties, and one student got up and said that he was voting for the SPD, and he was incredibly upset about how he could even say that it was just wrong. The IT firm's employee said he had something to hold on to, because of course he was an unbiased person, but he didn't like it very much as a parent who had a child of the same age. Just defray a public student for expressing a public opinion? If he had shown any criminal predictions, as if he were calling on someone to murder, to defend, I don't know, basically a crime, that's understandable, but to be dehonested and insulted for expressing his political orientation? I mean, it could have been a discussion! What's this communication about? And why is it? So what? And what would change your mind? And there's another way to think about it. [[12.00 hours]] Of course there's another thing. It is clear from the law that the promotion of political parties and movements on the ground of educational institutions is unacceptable, which is why, for example, I was struck by the action of Man in distress. Personally, I have always respected člověk in distress when they actually helped people in affected areas by famine, earthquakes, and so on, but part of their content suddenly slipped into political agitation, and there I can't really agree with them anymore - I'm talking about the election event Elections in schools. If this were to be taken up by the basic systems of the functioning of political parties and systems, pupils, students would have created some imaginary political parties, their representatives, they would have made some pre-election debate, a vote to understand the principles in the general plane of the political system, so I would absolutely not object to it at all. But here, you had real political parties, and then there were public appearances that students were voting for such and such real... and that's for me the totally unacceptable manipulation of public opinion, where it's actually being pushed by other young people - look how you're supposed to vote to be good ones. But second of all, I'm concerned that from my point of view - I'm not a lawyer, so I can't legally classify it, if it meets the deed - but for me, as far as an amateur can read the law and only understand it as a written text, so for me, this is a violation of the law. And I would definitely classify it as promoting specific political parties in educational institutions. Then here we have fake news, also a very downed topic. The notion of a false, false, misrepresenting message is not the discovery of modern manipulators. To understand each other, I refer not to the alleged authors of unverified messages, but to their controllers and fanatical censors. Censorship is censorship, no matter what we disguise it with more self-loathing intentions, I've already talked about it here. There is no - it is not at all such a disorder of the last time to give to the clearly defined terms any adjectives, positive discrimination, for example - discrimination will simply be discrimination and discrimination in its essence - someone always pays for discrimination. So how can something like this be positive? Censorship - good censorship, bad censorship - simply censorship is, by its very nature, wrong, unless it is about defending a crime and so on, but interpreting some censorship for good, it doesn't make any sense at all. In the genes of each censorship is manipulation of people's thinking and freedom. That's right, censorship is just manipulation. We define exactly what information we need to get to the end user, and we're not actually telling him straight what to think, but we're going to do it by giving him the information that we see fit, so that it's in our favor. Fortunately, the censors were so kind that in the original definition they admitted that there are art genres that are out of line with this term, such as such a parody or satire is not fake news. But they began prosecuting and forbidding the code of correctness, because today there must be no satire about anything that would affect human rights, integrity, faith, political views, appearance, race or personal attitudes of the individual, so we got out of the rain under the gulf. According to the theorists, the technology of public opinion manipulation is mainly fertile in open societies that have no respect for tradition, have lost solid principles and cannot rationally distinguish good and evil. In other words, the most easy to manipulate are democratic societies without a clear ideology and faith, willing to accept everything that seems right, modern and correct. On the contrary, not manipulating... what he doesn't manipulate are groups of people associated with strong faith, traditionalist government, or living in social, sexual or psychological isolation. The method of handling public opinion in open societies was described by the American philosopher Overton. This means that here we come in open societies that have no respect for tradition, they have lost solid principles. And here we are again about how in the European Union the traditions of individual national states are being attacked, so when I've studied this, I've already begun to understand why they're attacking the tradition, why the tradition, why it's actually presented, that the nation is something wrong, absolutely something ew, something like toxic masculinity, that is, when I'm a man who can defend a woman from some rapist, so I'm basically the bad rapist, I should convince him with a flower and a sweet smile to drop his act. Then here we have - I will make it a little bit shorter - as far as the media is concerned, of course we have Czech TV here, which should really report impartially to absolutely everyone, even to politicians of unpleasant topics. The problem is that awareness should really, as they say, fall for who. And there have been many and many cases where this has not been the case, when any thing is the media, if it is the political party or the politician to whom they are inclined, so they counter, defend it, or tactfully silence it, they rely on people nowadays only reading tabloid headlines like in Blesk. That means I'm going to put in some headline that doesn't match the text at all, but it's manipulating the person. This should not be the case, and especially with Czech Television, independent, it should be a medium that should actually perform a state-building function to inform absolutely impartially about anyone. I'm not saying it's always like that, but I'm sure we'll find some screaming cases. That's all for me. I'll do it one more time... [[It is turning towards the President.]] I don't know if I have to, do I have to repeat the wording of that point or...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u26	You don't have to. You, as one of the few, even wrote it on the application itself, Mr. Ambassador, which, thank you, it's a relief, so I think it's okay. [[Member Kettner: Well, thank you, too.]] Thank you, too. Another is registered by Jaroslav Dvořák, who is also logged on to the item of the programme, and I see the priority right, so the priority right of Chairman Fiala takes precedence. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u27	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad I managed to catch up with the Home Secretary here, because he was talking about what's going on with your Members, and I understand, I understand. Neither the SPD is a friend of any violence, on the contrary, we are against violence, against war, we are still declaring it, and we agree that if the Minister of the Interior takes such steps to protect Members from any persecution, violence, to protect not only Members, but all people in the Czech Republic. [[12.10 hours]] Allow me, Minister, to add to this, because today we have a comment from one Mr Martin Straka of the TOP 09 of Sokolov, who invites people to pour cyanide into Mr Okamur's water, which he drinks here during speeches. He urged people - and you, Members - to poison Tomio Okamura here, and to call on you to kill him. So I hope, Minister of the Interior, that they are not subpoenas and subpoenas, that you will treat all people the same - and I will forward it to you - and that you will deal with this too. And once again, the SPD is against any violence and war, against gallows, against any persecution, we are behind democracy and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u28	Logged in with priority rights, Mr. Home Secretary. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u29	A short comment, through the President. I thank you, Mr President of the SPD, for the clear view that you condemn any political violence. I do the same, and, of course, in this case, if the matter is supported by the Czech Police, the police, as independent police, will deal with this, as well as any other manifestation of violence against anyone in our society, do not include policies from any side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u30	Thank you. The next one is Jaroslav Dvořák on the agenda and the next one should be Jan Hrnčíř. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u31	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose a point of inclusion in the agenda of today's meeting called Food Self-sufficiency, which I will then justify. One of the most basic human needs - food - cannot be considered an ordinary commodity, as they are the basic physiological need of a man according to Maslowův's hierarchy of needs and needs them for being itself. Providing food from its own resources is a guarantee not only of security, but also of stable prices and quality. It defines food self-sufficiency as an effort to create conditions for food production at a sufficient level to ensure the needs of the population. In general, food self-sufficiency is the current ratio between domestic production and domestic consumption of a commodity at a given time. It can be perceived throughout the state, within the region or within an individual or group. It states that self-sufficiency cannot be measured by the proportion of food imported from abroad to the Czech Republic, but how much the commodity is produced in the Czech Republic compared to how much it is consumed in our country. Food self-sufficiency is a fundamental strategic issue that is needed to achieve the relative independence and economic stability of the state and thus increase international authority. The concept of food self-sufficiency can be clearly understood as a country's ability...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u32	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you, I'm sorry, but I was just asked by the chairman of your club so you could have a certain exception given that you're having a very bad breath, and you took off your drape. I think it's understandable on the one hand, but we're gonna have to go with the hygiene rules... But please continue to talk better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u33	[[No drapes.]] ... and provide enough food if necessary for the livelihood of every resident. But that is almost impossible at the moment. Food is usually imported from other countries, including food that the state is able to produce on its own. This is because farmers and farmers are forced to produce food at higher prices than foreign competitors' prices, mainly because of their lack of support. Such agriculture does not meet the vision of sustainable development and puts minimal emphasis on environmental requirements. Food self-sufficiency in the Czech Republic is currently a very current topic. The pandemia of coronavirus has shown how dangerous dependence on food imports can be. The Czech Republic is largely dependent on food imports, even in such basic foods as fruit, vegetables, pig meat or poultry. This was fully apparent when the borders closed during the pandemic and it turned out that Czech agriculture could not in any way support the entire country. The public is mostly interested in agriculture only when it discovers that the food in the store is becoming more expensive, and that is what happened right now, for example, when the price of cauliflower climbed up to 100 crowns in the store. Acceleration is a reason not only for our little food self-sufficiency, but for increasing dependence on food imports from other countries. Our country's self-sufficiency in the production of pork is between 36 and 38 percent, 55 percent for poultry meat, 60 percent for eggs and about 90 percent for milk. At least we are self-sufficient in fruit - 30% - and vegetables - even 25 percent. However, the problems are not just about price increases, because with a shortage of workers in the countries they import to us, prices have not only increased by tens of percent, but there are deliveries of still immature vegetables and fruit, which do not even resemble vegetables and fruit in terms of taste and quality, such as tomatoes, apricots, peaches, nectarines, raspberries. According to the President of the Agricultural Chamber of the Czech Republic Zdeněk Jandejsko, Czech farmers are among the best in Europe, but foreign food is often cheaper than food from Czech and Moravian farmers. This is related to grant policy, because in developed Western European countries, national subsidies are much higher than subsidies in the Czech Republic. This allows foreign farmers to sell their food on our market cheaper than the Czechs. The problem is also that we have no control over the entire production and production of food in the countries from which we import. We import food where we do not control the quality of natural conditions, we do not know what soil quality is, if it is not contaminated by heavy metals, we do not know how raw materials are produced in the country from which imported food is produced, and how much pesticides, herbicides, industrial fertilisers and the like are used here. In the Czech Republic we control raw materials from production to sales of food products. Our control system is one of the best in the world, but we are still importing what may not be the best, and we are still contributing to environmental pollution. Only the transport of food to the Czech Republic represents more than 100,000 trucks per year, which bring food to the Czech Republic. Add another hundreds of thousands of trucks passing through our country to countries such as Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and others, so it is even more. For many years, the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic has advocated the idea that Czech food was much more represented in supermarkets and hypermarkets owned by foreign trade chains compared to food imported from abroad, which are often sold at lower prices. The essence of this amendment to the Food Act would be to increase the ratio of Czech food in stores from next year to 65 per cent and then increase by another 5 per cent annually, up to 2027 when this ratio would reach 85 per cent. The aim of the law should be to improve the environment especially because of imports, where food is driven hundreds of kilometres, human health and protection of Czech quality goods from imports from abroad, which often destroy Czech ones. The food self-sufficiency of our country must continue to be dealt with in a very significant way. I therefore ask for the inclusion of food self-sufficiency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u34	I also thank you for presenting the proposal. And since we've exceptionally made this request here, and I have an understanding of it, I'm going to ask the cleaning lady to come clean the counter as usual. So for now, a party colleague can be prepared. So let's give a minute to do this cleaning thing right here. Thank you for understanding. [[12.20 hours]] I just got the information that unfortunately, because it wasn't planned this way, we're going to have to last about five minutes. I think we all get it one way or the other. Even Mr Hrnčíř will certainly wait five more minutes. [[It is ready two meters from the speaker's desk.]] I see he's impatient, but I understand, absolutely. However, I think it is an understanding, it is in the interests of health protection. I'm declaring a five-minute break like this just for this operation. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12.20 to 12-25 hours.]] Thus, the necessary cleansing has been fulfilled, although there still remains an imprudent Red Bull, which has been there for a long time, as I have been able to see here. But now it's Mr. Hrnčíř's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador, justify your motion to change the show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u35	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In short, although Minister Rakušan is not sitting here right now, I would just like to briefly respond that I am in agreement with his words that he has said here, and I would ask him to instruct his Prime Minister, Mr Fiala, who, yesterday on Twitter, identified my fellow opposition MPs as extremists who are worth a lot of money. I don't think he should hate a part of society in this way. I believe the Home Secretary will instruct him and the Prime Minister will stop. And now I would like to include House press number 4 in this meeting as already included points. This is an amendment to the Income Tax Act, which aims to prevent tax-free profits from being made abroad. Now, I would briefly justify my proposal. In the Czech Republic, there is an excessive flow of profits abroad, where one form is the payment of dividends, through which hundreds of billions of crowns flow each year. The profit drain instead of the willingness of foreign owners to reinvest in the Czech Republic is one of the main reasons for the stagnation of gross domestic product. The legislation in force does not allow effective setting of instruments that prevent the flow of profits from the Czech Republic abroad. The proposed adjustment to tax the payment of a substantial amount of dividends abroad, since it applies a withholding tax of 15 per cent to the payment of profits or dividends to foreign owners who fall under the category of so-called parent company of the Czech commercial corporation, i.e. they have a continuous share of at least 10 per cent in the domestic corporation for at least 12 months, which is, of course, the majority, for tax reasons. The plundering of our country is still on its way. In the last ten years, even the capital drain has dramatically exceeded the influx of foreign investment, the volume of which does not only cover the tide, but even today declines compared to the long-term average. Only through capital gains is an incredible sum of more than 300 billion crowns drawn from our country every year. Significantly, the mass flow of money takes place from water and energy companies. It is on it that it is most obvious to see where it has gotten us disgraceful and often corrupted by the sale of strategic industries and natural resources into foreign hands, carried out by virtually all the revolutionary governments. For many years, our tax system has been helping machinery with revenues from foreign corporations, distorted by all kinds of exceptions that enable them to tax most of their subsidiaries in the country with their mothers abroad. For example, the Japanese Asahi group from 2016 to 2019 brought 11 billion Czech crowns abroad from Plzeňský Prazdroj. Or every year in Bohemia and Moravia, the German trade chain Lidl earns and takes up to 5 billion crowns of net profit abroad. As a result of the exception for foreign owners of companies, these do not pay 15 per cent of the withholding tax, which must be paid by domestic owners. This exception, which is competitively extremely disadvantageous to the owners of the Czech Republic, pushed through its time ČSSD. Many Czech giant companies, such as Seznam.cz, belong to companies that make profits, either after or more often before tax. . The list was paid to its parent company Helifreak Limited, owned by its founder Ivo Lukačovič, a dividend of CZK 567 million. The money went to Cyprus, and if its owner, whose media are so interested in the decency of Czech politics, was taxed in the Czech Republic, he would get CZK 85 million in public budgets. But, unfortunately, such tax optimizations are perfectly legal so far. [[12.30 hours]] We constantly create tax advantages for purely foreign companies, which, however, leave us immediately when these benefits end. In addition, many originally Czech companies have their registered office in other European Union countries, where they usually pay lower taxes on profits. And yes, we are talking about the states of the European Union, not once declared tax havens, such as the Bahamas, where today Viktor Kožený is hiding from prosecutions with billions released during the coupon privatization of the so-called Harvard funds. Very eloquent is the view of the ownership structure of the largest Czech breweries in Czech quotation marks. Staropramen breweries, Staropramen beers, Braník, Ostravar and other owned Canadian brewery group Molson Coors, based in Ontario. Starobrno, Královský pivovar Krusovice and Velké Březno with beers such as Krusovice, Zlatopramen, Starobrno, Březňák and others, owns Heineken Czech Republic, the sole shareholder of which is the Dutch company Heineken International, based in Amsterdam. Breweries Montenegro, Antivín, Uherský Brod, Jihlava, Klášter, Vysoké Chlumec and Rychtář fall under the breweries Lobkowicz Group, which are majority owned by Chinese companies. The largest Czech breweries thus remain the only Czech and state Budějovický Budvar. It's just a brief overview. Of course, these companies are a number of, often the result of corruption accompanied by privatization. That's why the profit drain is so noticeable. I therefore ask to support the inclusion of this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u36	Thank you for presenting the proposal. The next one is registered by Patrik Nacher, but I do not see him present in the hall, which is the second time this same application has not been completed due to the absence of a Member. So the next one is Karel Sládeček. Mr. Ambassador, please, you can justify your proposal to place or place a point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u37	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to put item number 45 on the agenda, House press 25, an amendment to Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the performance of the post of State officials and certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended. The proposed bill aims, in particular, to prevent an increase in the salaries of Members and Senators. It was ideal to be from the beginning of 2022 to 2025 in order not to increase them. This is because the Czech Republic and its citizens are still struggling with the economic effects of the measures against SARS-CoV-2, with rising prices for goods and services, and most recently with the rise in energy prices. Members and senators and some other representatives of state might thus show their coherence with other Czech citizens. A solution which will not increase their salaries and at the same time endanger their long-term personal obligations is to freeze their salaries to the same amount as they had in 2021. The legal situation in force with regard to the salaries of Members and Senators is governed by Law No 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the performance of the post of State officials, certain state bodies and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended. Under this law, namely Section 3 thereof, the salary of representatives of state authority, certain state authorities, judges and Members of the European Parliament shall be determined as the product of the salary base and the salary coefficient established according to the responsibility and intensity of the function performed. From 1 January to 31 December of the calendar year in question, the salary base shall be 2,5 times the average nominal monthly wage per employee in the non-business sector achieved according to published data of the Czech Statistical Office for the previous calendar year. Amendment No 587/2020 Coll. The salary base for 2021 was fixed for state officials to CZK 84,060 and for judges to CZK 100,872 in such a way as not to increase salaries against the previous calendar year. The same principle of the proposed bill extends until the end of 2025. Such an adjustment is significantly more transparent than a fixed wage freeze by a multiple, if any, and there will be no interpretation confusion. It is fair that there should be no increase in the salaries of Members and Senators and other representatives during the new parliamentary term, and these have been a solid contribution to the economic reality of the Czech Republic. Savings must be sought wherever possible and where this will not result in serious negative consequences. This proposed legislative measure will benefit the state budget, help to offset the decline in revenue and increased costs of the state, municipalities and regions. It is not the intention of the petitioner to change the salary of judges or Members of the European Parliament in the latter case because of possible conflict with European law, which would jeopardise the possibility of rapid adoption of legislation as a whole. The change doesn't affect the state's attorney's salary. The proposed legislation respects the prohibition of discrimination and is neutral in relation to equality between men and women. The draft amendment complies with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and does not conflict with the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. The content of the proposed proposal is not subject to any international agreement which the Czech Republic is bound by. The proposal does not implement the law of the European Union into the legal order of the Czech Republic and the proposal does not conflict with the law of the European Union. The economic and financial impact on the state budget is positive, as there will be no need to issue more funding from the state budget than in 2021. The measure will affect Members and Senators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. However, the measure will not be drastic against those persons as it maintains the level of their salaries applicable in 2021. No further impacts on the state budget or budgets of municipalities and regions are foreseen. The proposed legislation does not foresee an impact on the family - except for the families of Members and Senators, but their situation will not deteriorate, it will remain the same as it did this year - on specific groups of people, in particular persons with social or disability, or on national minorities. No environmental impacts are expected. The amendment does not contain potential corruption risks, does not affect the risks of security or defence of the state. Therefore, I beg you to include this press for the points already assigned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u38	Yes, I have noted your proposal, and thank you for the presentation. I think that in this very spirit, it should be this extensive, but that is rather an inspiration for others. Next is Mrs Eva Fialová, followed by Marek Novák. Mrs Fialová has the floor to propose a programme. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u39	Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose a new point in relation to what happened here yesterday in the afternoon. Given what happened here, the self-proclaimed demo block here, which determines what the rules of democracy should look like, has completely broken the law, and thus can make the law a total tear-down calendar. And since, on the basis of the violation of these provisions and of this law, any point of this meeting may be challenged - although some of the points proposed are, I agree and can be for the benefit of our people - so they can be attacked and de facto abolished. [[12.40 hours]] For this reason, I propose a point that will be more beneficial to the majority of the population, more or less a resolution that will not harm anyone, but we are all concerned, namely, by myself, mostly from the Ústí Region, where people are fighting poverty traders. And that is why I would like to call it a point of what to do with 15 measures to combat poverty traders. Fifteen points were approved in the past period, which was based mainly on the experience of the mayors and their wishes, so I think this is a very delicate topic for the coalition too. I would also like to know, according to some statements by the Government, how it will continue to deal with individual points, and for new Members who have not been here in the past period, I would like to comment or revisit those fifteen points. The first was to regulate the rental of more flats through trade licenses. Secondly, a clear setting of hygiene standards for apartments that would determine what an apartment should look like, such as running water, sanitary facilities, functional electricity and the like, and a determination of the number of square metres per person in a given household. The third point was the introduction of a permanent residence obligation in the municipality where the individual actually lives. Fourthly, repair and purchase of devastated flats. I would like to then elaborate on this point more. Fifthly, the completion of the price maps in order to determine the normal rent. For the sixth revision of the batch system, consider merging contributions and housing supplements, put the payout on price maps, ensure the address of the payment of benefits, narrow the circle of living together in the home, and shorten the payment for example on a flat-rate to energy, which, among other things, is a very hot topic at the moment, and it affects everyone. The seventh legal adjustment of the possibility to provide data to municipalities on social benefits provided and to carry out social work. For the eighth staff and financially strengthen the offices of work, the Police of the Czech Republic or teaching staff in excluded localities. Ninth, legally define what temporary housing is and what function it has to eliminate so-called residential hotels. For the tenth time, allow the debt relief of persons in execution traps without setting the minimum limit for repayment of claims. For the eleventh time, strictly follow up on social work benefits and school attendance. At the twelfth time, the obligation to change schooling, not to limit age, but to provide for compulsory schooling to determine education, such as the achievement of an education certificate, and to limit premature business for children in education. [[Leaving children out of education?]] For the 13th time, strengthen social work and social prevention, work and hygiene habits, work with children, and promote education, crime prevention and drug consumption, the ability to maintain housing and so on. On the 14th, ensure that all workers who are able to actually work, including the long-term employment of long-term unemployed persons - for example, a revision of community service work so that it can be used in the long term without the need to repeat the registration at the employment office. For the fifteenth time, ensure the enforcement of the right, in particular with regard to the disturbance of night tranquillity and neighbourly coexistence. The previous leadership worked on some points, drew up a strategic plan, and something succeeded. Something was done along with colleagues from ODS who proposed the law "three times and enough." We fully supported him, he was mostly about the last point. But I would like to raise here the question of how to address the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health, in what way in the pandemic, when the psychic, physical and knowledgeable decline of individual pupils deepens? In a time of energy crisis, many more people may fall into these localities, many more living here, being reliant on helping or in some way being thrown into poverty traders, and there will be nothing else left. Therefore, I would also follow up with Jana Pastuchová, who proposed here the question of how many people have already requested a housing allowance under the new system. I agree with it that it has opened up, but those people who really need help, the middle class that falls right into this group of people I'm talking about right now are ashamed to go to the employment office to ask for it, and the choir in our country in the north. It's devastating for them that they've been working for 45 years, and they're about to apply for a housing allowance. Plus, the post is crappy. They have to confess where they own what they make, how much they earn, and I don't think our citizens deserve it. The minister promised to call people and offer them help. So how many people has he called since we passed this law here? How many people did he personally help, or their officials at the employment offices, who she didn't give an extra crown because she was doing her work from morning to night? And another thing: How will you ensure good housing for these people in the future? Not only for these residents in excluded localities, but overall? How will the grant title Construction continue, which you have so often criticized? How many projects are ready? How are these people gonna live? You say you have a new housing system. My question is: I was here last time when I was discussing a miraculous mix with the pirát to solve the housing problem. That was a black hole. You're just gonna let them bribe you to shut your mouth to the pirát so they don't leave and just keep looking at everything here just because they think it's cool this black hole where we're gonna support other and other nonprofits looking for private tenants? You're really gonna let that happen? You want corruption back here again? What's going on -- plus you really have it in the government's programming statement that you're going to set up this law within two years, so I'm asking what stage it is and if you're really willing to stand by? Moreover, the mayors have a lot of these comments, they are experienced from practice. Most of them want to return Drábkův's reform of social welfare payments to municipalities. Are you ready for this? Is the budget box prepared for this because it won't be cheap? And it's what the mayors really want. This is not the invention of the YES movement, it is not the invention of someone else, it is the wish of individual mayors who are in the field every day and face common problems every day and cannot tell other people how to deal with them because they do not have the notes to go on. [[12.50 hours]] I could talk about other problems and other problems that are connected to it, whether they're executions, but it's been said x-times here, I hate to repeat myself. But you really force things here that people don't care about right now, and they don't need them, just because you're showing the arrogance of the power you showed us here yesterday. I completely disagree with that, which is why I say that any law we adopt here at this meeting can be called into question, and there are good things there. I therefore propose that we put this point as a third point in this meeting. And I would really like to hear how some things are going to be dealt with and, if necessary, give some joint resolution, because it is not just us, it is you. You're worried, you've got your deputies in those villages, and those communities are waiting for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u40	Thank you for presenting the proposal. Next up, MP Marek Novák, if I'm not mistaken... I don't see him here, Mr. Novák. If she is not present, then Zuzana Ožanová is further logged in, which I can already see, so I will give her the floor, followed by Mr. Ondřej Babka. Madame, your room for justification for the draft programme. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u41	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. honourable Members, I would like to assign one of the implementing amendments concerning, as otherwise in my case, transport. I'm glad the Minister is here, so thank you for his presence. However, I would like to point out from the outset that the law has been broken in this meeting. I would just very much not like the President to deprive me of the opportunity to speak and present my proposal, as has clearly become a custom in this House. Now for my proposal. I would just like to point out that I will not quote the reason message so that I do not need to be reprimanded. I'm submitting a draft for item number 14, print number 76. This is a government bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on Roadways, as amended, and Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws, Act on liability insurance from the operation of vehicles as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended. The bill abolishes the obligation to equip vehicles with a military registration mark, a registration mark of an electric vehicle or a special registration mark of a historical vehicle with an electronic device in the electronic toll system. The amendment follows the request made by the Ministry of Defence in the framework of an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, as it is already apparent from their specific registration marks that the use of tolled roads by the vehicles concerned is not subject to payment of tolls. All other proposals are exclusively the implementation of EU regulations, namely Directive 2019/1936 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 amending Directive 2008/1996 EC on road infrastructure safety management and Directive 2019/520 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019 on the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems and facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on the non-payment of road charges in the Union. The deadline for implementation of the Directives was up to 19 October 2021 and 17 December 2021, i.e. the deadline has expired. That is the main reason why I would like this bill to come forward. First, the proposal following EU legislation regulates the safety management of selected roads in their design, construction and operation, second, the provision of a European electronic toll service, third, the provision of information on the absence of a time fee or toll payment in cross-border situations. To manage the safety of selected roads in their design, construction and operation: The proposed modifications are designed to improve road safety performance. The amendments are to apply not only to road infrastructure included in the trans-European road network, but also to motorways, main roads and sections of other roads outside urban areas, which are completed using EU funds, in simple terms, also to roads in regional administration. The changes proposed allow more appropriate identification of the road section, where there are the greatest opportunities to improve safety and where targeted interventions should lead to the greatest improvements. Furthermore, action plans will be drawn up for relevant sections of the road throughout the territory of each EU Member State, which will include graduated corrective actions according to priorities. The draft law introduces a definition of the concept of road road subject to safety assessment, which is subsequently consistently used in the framework of the regulation of the various instruments used to manage road safety. In order to provide a European electronic toll service: the European electronic toll service is a market-based service and therefore its providers should not be obliged to provide such a service throughout the EU at this time. Enough to provide a European electronic toll service will cover all electronic toll collection systems of at least four EU Member States. European electronic toll service providers should pay the toll collector all tolls to be paid by their customers and should be entitled to a fair remuneration. Member States should be obliged to collect and publish all relevant data relating to this service in publicly accessible national registers. To provide information on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border situations: Problems with identifying non-residents' perpetrators in connection with electronic toll collection systems prevent the further development of the system and the wider application of the "user pays and polluter pays' principles on EU roads. Therefore, information relating to offences is exchanged to the non-payment of any road charges in the EU. In the Czech Republic, these fees are toll and time fee, in other words a motorway stamp. The proposal will increase the cost of assessing the safety of state-owned roads, as they will be extended, but new infrastructure safety assessment costs will also be borne by regions as second and third class road owners for whose construction, reconstruction or repair EU funds have been or are to be used. In the area of the provision of the European electronic toll service, the new costs borne by public budgets are not foreseen. In the area of information provided on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border situations, costs are also not expected to be high, but more effective administrative punishment could increase revenue. [[13.00 hours]] The draft law is supplemented by transitional provisions. The initial assessment of the intention and conduct of the road safety audit will not apply to buildings for which the relevant documentation has been prepared before the application of this Act, except for the audit for communications included in the trans-European road network. First assessment of roads subject to safety assessment pursuant to § 18m of Act No. 13/1997 Coll. perform the infrastructure owner in 2024. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the first day of the calendar month following the publication of the Act, taking into account the already existing transposition period. That's why I'm asking for this press to be reassigned. The amendment of Decree No 1 is envisaged. 104/1997 Coll., implementing the Road Act, as amended. It is appropriate that the implementing rules, whose deadline for implementation has expired, be put forward in order to comply with our commitments. I propose a fixed entry point for Friday 18 February 2022 at 9 o'clock. Just for the recap, this is point 14, print 76, and the proposal is for Friday 18 February at 9 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u42	I also thank you for the proposal. The next one is registered by Ondřej Babka. Ambassador Babka? I just saw him here a little while ago, but I can't see him here anymore, so I'm pushing two of his applications further. Miloslav Janulík is another of the applicants. Mr. Janulík again this time... but he can't make it. So, Mr. Janulík, next up is Mr. Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u43	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to propose a point in the agenda of this meeting at which the Minister of Health would inform us about the state of the Coronavirus epidemic in the Czech Republic. I'm just gonna get a quick look at this. There were 33 293 infected in the Czech Republic yesterday, or since the beginning of the epidemic, almost 3.5 million people have been reportedly infected with covid. If we take at least two doses, we find that we are already at the limit of collective immunity. During Tuesday 79 219 PCR tests were performed in the Czech Republic and 18 970 antigen tests. I'm just recommending a little something for your attention. When you imagine the price we all paid for it, basically every day is the astronomical price. Mladá Boleslav is currently reporting the most infected, 1 731 infected per 100,000 inhabitants in the seven-day reference period. The question is why Boleslav, if it is not because there is a lot of testing in Škoda Mladá Boleslav. On the next place of the imaginary ranking is Blansko, there is 1 672, Vyškov and Opava, also Rychnov nad Kněžnou and Rokycany, so it is spread out, so the wave has basically hit the republic to the fullest. In association with coronanavir died on Tuesday 17 infected, since the beginning of the pandemic it is 37 991. There we know that this is a matter of reporting and a question of perspective. Of course, I will never be such an opposition agnostic as my ancient predecessors and ancient oppositionists to claim that it falls to the Prime Minister or someone, because I am a doctor and I know that it simply died in hospitals, dying and dying will be, and last Tuesday 51 people succumbed to infection, but that would be, in the Republic and the number of hospitalized, it would be a success to consider the error of small numbers. There are currently 3 733 infected in Czech hospitals, there are 272 people in serious condition, which is significantly less than 10 percent. Compared to last week, it's a decline, but from my point of view, it was 3,931, last week, so in this direction the situation is relatively stable. The 5 054 infected is a reinfection, compared to last week it is a bit of a drop, there is a drop of about 1,500 reinfected, but we have to realize - I would like to point out here - that patients find themselves in these hospitals exceptionally after the third vaccination. Unfortunately, I think that this is being given very little attention, and the available numbers on the number of vaccines show that vaccinations have basically stopped, de facto stopped. In other words, those who wanted to inoculate themselves have been vaccinated, and those who do not want to inoculate themselves will probably not be inoculated. Of course, I see a great contradiction here, when we were discussing it on the committee with the current minister, who said he had recipes for how to get these people, the campaign and so on and so on. As you can see, none of this is happening, because, as we know, biological regulations are not governed by the laws of others or by the wishes of politicians and anyone else. So I think the negative advertising really worked here, and, as I'm saying, those who wanted to inoculate themselves are inoculated. Now the big question is, what about the measures? But I'd like to hear what the view is, the plan, because things are leaking into the media. Of course, as doctors, it is clear to me that coronavirus will not leave us and will be with us forever. Now the question is, what form is it going to go into the health system? I must also mention that those austerity steps that we do not yet have a state budget, that, paradoxically, sanitary stations are weakening when we asked them for two years of absolutely incredible things, and now we're going to weaken them, and the fact that they were even thinking about reducing the payment for state insured people seems completely absurd to me, and for me it's a terrible time trip because I remember the circus ten or more years ago when the top was getting to the Ministry of Health and went there by then colleague Heger, so it looked exactly the same. We doctors were all expecting the payment for state insurance to be fixed, and the opposite was true. Before the election, we were promised how to fix it, and after the election, they said they were playing it. So I feel like for me it's such a trifle déjà vu. Well, I'd like to hear from the Minister what, if he's been listening to it for two years, he has a plan. I'm saying I'm not gonna lower myself to opposition agnosticism, which I've been listening to for two years, that everything is wrong before it comes up. I don't have, and I can't even be happy about it - it's already affecting my relatives, direct relatives - I can't be happy that someone gets infected and what they're like and so on and so on. It's just that coronavirus isn't like somebody thinks it is. I mean, really, who's thinking about something like that today is completely ignorant. But I would like to hear from the Minister what awaits us. I know it's hard to predict, but we still have a lot more information than we had two years ago. We didn't know anything, everyone thought, argued, we know something about it today. We also know that, basically, today, he's gotten past 98 or what percentage of omicron. Most of you, I don't know which one of you, but I think that given the numbers, a lot of us have had it, so he knows that the Omicron is nothing at all. I myself, after three vaccinations, know how it is. So what's next? Now there's speculation that the drapes will be postponed until the end. From my point of view, I think it's completely unnecessary, because the omicron is probably overcoming the drapes playfully, and the use is never 100%. We know that. [[13.10 hours]] Moreover, we tend not to follow things rather than follow them, so if the Minister were to read to us, at least foremanship, an idea of how it will evolve, how it will continue, because there are many other things that are also going to depend on it. And since he's already started at that point that I suggest, he might also be able to tell us something about the idea of funding, because I feel like the finance minister stomped on him, and he just blew himself off and nodded everything he was dictated to. So that's why the brutal cuts in health care, which are completely incomprehensible. At this time, perhaps the health sector should not be involved in any investigation at all. You say yourself, when you justify the pandemic law, it's because of the wave coming in the fall. So on the one hand, we're going to have a wave in the fall, and on the other hand, we're going to take the money. I don't understand anymore. So I would like, at a point that I would like to propose, that is, the Information of the Minister of Health on the condition of the pandemic of coronavirus and the measures planned, if he would comment on this and explain to us relatively in detail what awaits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u44	I also thank you for giving me the item. The next one is registered by Milan Brázdil, then Mr Rais will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you can justify your motion for a meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u45	Dear colleagues, thank you for the floor, Madam President. Before I present my proposal on the agenda, I call forward so that everyone can return calmly, that at the end of my proposal, I will put forward a procedural motion for the cancellation of this 9th meeting, the termination of this 9th meeting, so that a new meeting may subsequently be opened by the President, but it will be in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the law, and to comply with it. So I'm saying it in advance so everyone can come back. I won't be long, so you'll have a few minutes. So let me make my proposal to change the agenda of the meeting, called the Health Rescue Service of the Czech Republic. Now I'd like to justify it. Everyone sitting here - not many of us are here today, but I'm sure all our colleagues will come back - but all of us sitting here, our greatest priority in this world is to stay healthy, enjoy life, be happy, make children, just be healthy. And that's health - sometimes we're in a phase where we're at risk for health. And here is the Medical Rescue Service, which provides this care fourteen times originally - one city, it is Prague and then the other regional ones, while you know that when your house starts to burn, maybe good firefighters will come, but above all the fire brigade of the Czech Republic, or if you are at risk of life being shot or threatened in some other way, so will the Police of the Czech Republic, maybe also the police of the Czech Republic, but the Police of the Czech Republic. In our republic, we have unfinished...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u46	Yes, I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u47	Please let me finish, I'll be very happy for you. We in our Republic have an unfinished transformation of the rescue service, when years ago - and I am a big fan there for 30 years, I love the job, I love saving and returning people to life and work very much - we do not have this rescue service completed in our Republic, the transformation. [[I'm walking.]] We started out as a rescue service that was leaving on the ARO emergency line. The doctor who was free, so hurry up, hurry up, get out, get in the ambulance. It became the county rescue services after that. It followed the transformation further into the territorial rescue services centers and swerved. Tonight, she snuck on...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u48	Once again, I will ask for peace in the hall so that the Member can continue to submit and justify his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u49	Thank you for your peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u50	I'm still asking for peace. Ambassador, please wait. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u51	I mean, the paramedic transformation went south today at the county level. We've got 14 - compared to firemen and cops - 14 variants. We're going under the same law, but 14 different times. Of course, the differences are great. Rendez-vous car - I could now delay you about how it looks in the Olomouc region, how it is in other regions, how doctors are occupied or not, driving times. I could also tell you now how we are otherwise paid in each county for the same job. How unobserved is the code of work. As doctors serve in some regions - because they are not - so they serve more than 12. Well, in short, and well, I could tell you for a long time... I don't want to delay you, but I'd like to ask you if you could, unless my procedural proposal to end the 9th meeting and subsequent reopening passes, but now well, well, well, normally, and according to the rules, so if it doesn't pass, at least later on, the inclusion of this point of mine called the Czech Medical Rescue Service, in which we would discuss whether it's good to have a 14-time ambulance differently, or if it's wrong and if a person, each of you, when he pays health, should be served by a rescue service standard, in each region as well, not otherwise in Prague, not otherwise in the Highlands...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u52	I ask for peace in the hall so that the Member may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u53	Thank you. I know I'm bored with you, but I'd end the reasoning now. I hope you understand why I want to place that point. I would therefore now like to put forward a procedural proposal, Madam President, on - my colleagues, listen, it is not a bad thing - to end this 9th meeting and start a new one immediately, but to comply with all the laws of the Rules of Procedure. I'm giving it because I went to see some matadors yesterday. One of those matadors, through Mr President - he is not listening to me now - and I asked him, Mr Benda, he is a legend, yes, exactly. I told him, "Is this normal?" Is it normal how the meeting went, how Mr. Kopeček here -- sorry, Skopeček, sorry -- how did it go? I don't think so. Maybe even the Constitutional Court would say, "No, that was wrong, and everything we're discussing here wouldn't work, it wouldn't work. So I'm giving myself a chance based on what I learned from Marek Benda, that it's not okay, that it's not kosher - I even went to ask you yesterday when Mr. Kymlička was here, he says he's a lawyer who was sitting here, I'm going to see him if what's going on here is okay. He shrugs his shoulders and looks: Well, legal interpretations are a lot. I say unto him, Who then payeth you, to whom do ye answer? He said... Well, I'm not gonna say it. Well, once again, I think there was a chance for us all to meet. So I'm making a procedural motion to close the meeting number nine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u54	The procedural proposals are usually voted on without debate, but this one is unvoting, Mr Member, because something like the termination of a meeting, as you have said, does not even include our Rules of Procedure. Our Rules of Procedure are set out in Section 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 9 the possibility of the Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the Presidents to propose a suspension of the House's meeting, but you are neither the President of the club, nor either of the presidents, nor the meeting is actually going on any other way than discussing the agenda, but in short, it is not a voteable proposal. [[13.20 hours]] He continues to report with priority rights - and abolishes this priority right - President Výborný. We therefore continue with the proposals submitted by the applications - Mr Karel Rais - and then Mr František Petrtýl is signed up. Mr Rais, please. I do not see him present, so his application - please calm down in the Chamber - is being moved to the end of the meeting. We have another envoy here, Mr. Petrtýl. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I ask for peace so that the Member may make his proposal to amend or amend the agenda. I shall also inform the next envoy, Mr Kamal Farhan. Please, Mr. Ambassador, but I don't think there's enough peace yet. Colleagues, colleagues, please move your conversations that you can into the lobby. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace. For example, I would like to ask Mr Nacher to move the interview with the Minister into the foyer, as well as in the left part of the spectrum, in the left part of the hall of the Vice-President and the President of the Fiala Club and others. Please, let us create decent conditions for the colleague to make his proposal. And I'm begging you for the last time. I think it's quiet enough now, so, Congressman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u55	Thank you. Madam President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to ask for a preliminary ruling, which I called the Budgetary Determination of Taxes. Originally, I wanted to call it a fair tax determination, but the word "righteous" cannot be specified in any way at all. Soon we will be approving the budget, and I think that it would be good to deal with this division of taxes for individual regions, especially budgetary determination, and that is usually the determination of taxes for regions, but of course it also affects municipalities. The regions were established in 2000. In this year when setting up the regions were determined according to some key the amount of the contribution for each region. Of course, one of the most important criteria was the population in the region, and this is actually a stumbling block for some regions. In some regions there has been a decline in population, but in some regions there has also been a dynamic increase in population, and it is for these regions that the current system of tax distribution is very unfair. There are more regions, but as Wednesday, I would like to point out that one of the most quoted regions affected is the region of Central Bohemia. In this region there has been an increase in population by about 25 percent since the establishment of the regions. For the sake of interest, in some municipalities the population growth was also twenty-fold, so it is clear that these municipalities completely changed their character. However, this is only an official increase in population, but many new inhabitants of the region retain their permanent residence. These are mostly people, families who have moved from Prague, want to live in the so-called ring around Prague, but logically from their stay the region has nothing positive, no finances, but they want to use the advantages of the region, meaning, for example, they use daily commuting to work, which is one of the biggest problems in this region. I think that even here it would be good to think about the status of permanent and temporary residence sometime in the future, because it is not just these residents who have an apartment that they rent in Prague, for example, some family members will keep a permanent stay there, and some live in the ring or in the territory of the Central Bohemia Region, and it can, of course, be in the territory of some other region. As I said, the large increase in these inhabitants, of course, affects the most in the area of public transport, when, in fact, the regional contributions for this area are becoming almost unsustainable. Just for the sake of illustration, the train comes to Prague from the Central Bohemia Region - it's data because it's very turbulent now as far as the situation is concerned - it's about 150,000 passengers, it's also about 150,000 by bus, and I'm not even talking about cars. Of course, even in this region, this huge shift is a huge burden on the roads of both the first and second and third classes, especially when, in fact, the everyday travelers drive through the Central Bohemia Region to Prague, but then also domestic transport from the north to the south and east to the west. Everything goes through the Central Bohemia Region and there are also mainly two large arteries - highway D3, which actually leads from the Balkans through the Central Bohemia Region to Scandinavia, and D1 and subsequently to Rozvadov, that means the direction east-west. Therefore, I would ask for this point to be included in today's negotiations, and I believe that this is a very difficult issue, so I would draw attention to it now, because it will not be so easy to respond to it immediately, but I think that the current situation is only advantageous for those regions where the population has been lost, so they may not be very interested in dealing with it in any way, but I think that this should be addressed so as not to keep scissors between the regions in view of this in the quotes of fair distribution of taxes. Thank you and I would like to place this point after the point of my previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u56	After a point raised by the previous speaker, which was Mr Brázdil, which was therefore a new point. Okay, let me make a note of this. And before I say another word, I'm just saying that the next meeting will take place by 2:00 p.m. on the grounds that the Committee on Budgets and the Organising Committee will act. Next is Mr Kamal Farhan, followed by Mr Kubíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u57	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, I would like to propose here a new item on the agenda for the meeting, which let me briefly justify. As we all know, the government coalition is preparing a hearing here - and I assume it also wants to approve the pandemic law. I presume that the way it is performed to support the members of the government coalition, and it is also presented that the situation is serious. I don't really understand. We are at a time of relaxation, on the other hand, we hear Minister Válek, who says he will put in place an emergency situation in case this pandemic law is not passed. Let's just say it's confusing. The situation to declare an emergency - the government certainly sees it as extreme when considering these instruments. And I ask why, in the situation of planning the emergency situation of the pandemic, is there underfinancing of Czech health care? How is it that, at such a serious time when the government or the Minister of Health is considering declaring an emergency, payments for state insured persons are reduced? Reduction of payments is planned - financing of sanitary stations. Hygiene stations are a pillar of the fight against pandemics. I consider it disparaging the work of Czech paramedics, gambling with the care of Czech citizens and especially those who work at the health stations. It is already clear that cuts will have significant negative effects, probably already this year in this serious situation. That the situation is so serious, it also illustrates the statement, here I stress, the Association of Health Insurance Companies, which says: "Newly, the scope of the current bonifications will need to be checked, which do not have direct support in the payment decree and have not yet been negotiated. It will be necessary to examine the patient's feedback efficiency and benefits for some extremely expensive medicines and, where appropriate, terminate price agreements." In other words, some health care may be cut off this year for some patients who are very expensive, which the public health insurance system has so far paid, but may also stop. It's a health insurance announcement. [[13.30 hours]] It is possible that this year, too, will be crossed out by the bonifications which insurance companies considered beneficial, but because of lack of money, they simply will not implement them. Insurance companies may be forced to slow down, try to limit the amount of payments by regulating care, and therefore actually slow down the exhaustion of reserves that have accumulated in the past period, for example in the pre-approved spa care, this, in turn, is highlighted by the Association of Medical Spa. The statement by the Health Insurance Association is proof that the declaration by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health does not apply, that this year there will be no threat of restrictions on health care. However, the situation is much more dramatic in the outlook for next year, when the Health Insurance Union is talking directly about reducing payments to hospitals, practices, ambulances, unless the State raises payments for state insured persons. And I'm going to make a quick mention before I propose the wording of the point on sanitary stations. From my point of view, this is an unprecedented attack on their functioning. The confusion, confusion, and the confusion that the Ministry produces around hygiene, when it issues a statement, then dementes them again, then these statements are issued by an official. This is evidence of chaos and absurd theater that is happening at the Ministry of Health. I have no idea how a government as one of its first measures can do this by reducing the capacity of a public health authority, that is, health stations. For years, these institutions have been on the brink of political concern, which has given us all up in the pandemic. We've seen it live on the air, how hygiene hasn't been able to cope with the plague. The fight against pandemics is not over, and the government has decided to release bloody hygiene. It's a very thoughtless decision that can take revenge. The absurdity of this decision is also underlined by the fact that dozens of employees will be released by the government immediately after taking dozens of officials to the Office of the Government for three newly established unnecessary virtual ministers. One hundred million to invest in health care workers needs to be saved as much as possible in the fight against deficits and cut them off so that the government can newly spend them on redundant new ministers' posts. And this leads me to propose the name of the point that I propose to include at the end of the meeting, for example, and I called it reducing funds to health care stations and Czech health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u58	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And now with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question about the House's leadership, because I've learned from the gallery this morning that there was a threat of a bomb in the House, which is why the dog dogs were here to check it out. The SPD movement, of course, condemns such threats against the House, but I wonder, I wanted to ask the House's leadership if it's true that there was a threat to the bomb in the House. If that is true, why didn't you inform us about it, because in that case it would probably be necessary for all Members to at least inform us? It's not like... I just want the information, if that's true, because it would certainly be good to clear the House for a while in the safety of Members. And last but not least, because that's what makes it look like, which is why I'm glad the House President is already reporting, that in the interest of pushing through the pandemic law at all costs, you left us here and didn't inform us that there might be such a threat, which would be completely insane. So I want to ask you what it was like, because I've already learned from more sources that this place was like this. And it's just the question, and I'd like it if I were answered, if that's the case, or those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[The loud call of the Members in the Chamber, the noise does not stop.]] This is with the priority right of President Adamová. I'd like some peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u61	I'd like it if we didn't yell at each other, shout at each other. Mr President, it is really so that this threat has been here, however, since the very beginning of the Security Department of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the Chancellor of the Chamber of Deputies who informed me of this, has assessed this threat as unreasonable, in particular as an evaluation of the Security Department. Yet, they took steps to confirm that it really was pointless. There's been a tour of the Chamber of Deputies, maybe some of you have noticed police officers escorted by a dog who was here. And since the entire time of our negotiations, as well as before it, our building, all the buildings of the Chamber of Deputies were protected by, of course, the security service, as you know, due to the ongoing demonstrations, as well as access to the streets around the House is blocked the entire time of our negotiations, so it really couldn't have happened that anyone could have entered through the various entrances to the House and actually installed this possible bomb here. That is why the security department, in which I have full confidence, want to make this clear, evaluate this threat as not as terrible, or as I would say in layman's terms, not so serious that we have to take the steps you said to take, that is to say, clean up the premises here. They behaved well, in my opinion, because it really showed up as they predicted, and I very much hope that it will not happen to us here, as it may be happening to the University of Economics, if you know where this instrument is often abused by someone. However, I can assure you that even the perpetrator has been caught in very early minutes, at most tens of minutes. That is why we evaluated the situation, and so did the security department. I hope this information is enough for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u62	Thank you, Madam President. We will now continue with further entries to the draft agenda and the next envoy is Mr Roman Kubíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u63	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you to place a new point, which I will briefly justify. I have received several e-mails in recent days from citizens of the Czech Republic with complaints about the increase in the price of heat. We all know that there has been a significant increase in energy, gas and electricity prices, but the impact of the increase in heat prices has probably not been seen until January. I looked up some information that was publicly available, and I found that, for example, Brno raised the price for gigajoul by 25 percent, Děčín by 50 percent, but for example, Vamberk raised the price for gigajoul from CZK 645 to CZK 2,500, which means that the average household with consumption of 40 gigajouls out of 26,000 jumped to CZK 100,000 per year. [[13.40 hours]] It is true that some large cities, such as Liberec, České Budějovice, Plzeň, did not have such drastic increases in these prices due to the fact that they generate so-called cogeneration, meaning they produce electricity, and because of their prices they were able to compensate for the increase in the price of heat. However, the increase in individual energy and the cocktail that is being created are very difficult, very dangerous for citizens, and it would be very good to take some measures to make those people even able to pay this price of heat. I'm just pointing out that the biggest price increases have come from those heat plants that use gas for heating, which was once a recommended commodity. And I will draw attention, for example, to the town of Česká Třebová, Benešov and Hrádek nad Nisou, where the price of heat increased by 100 percent. I know that one of the components that are included in the heat price is so-called emission allowances, which have grown from EUR 5 per tonne of oxide to EUR 92 per tonne of oxide over two years and close to EUR 100, and there will be a need to start negotiations in Brussels on how these emission allowances should be traded only within issuers. I think this is enough for the introduction, and I just point out that this concerns 1,150,000 households, so I will allow myself to place a point in the growth of domestic heat prices and please include for the point that was the previous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u64	That means, for all the reading points. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now it is Mr Drahoslav Ryba's turn to prepare Mr Radek Vondráček. [[No one's going to the speaker's desk.]] Do we have Mr. Drahoslav Ryba here? He doesn't seem to be here. It is now Mr Radek Vondráček's turn - I do not see him here either. And now it is Mr Radek Vondráček's turn. I don't see him here either, and he even has two applications. Mr Martin Kolovratník then signed up for the motion for a programme. Yes, I see him here. So please, Mr. Ambassador, and the Member has two applications. Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u65	Hello, good afternoon, colleagues. Thank you for giving me the floor, too. I, too, would like to begin my speech by saying what many of us here see as opposition Members, that the violent interruption of Tomio Okamura's speech and the subsequent introduction of this meeting to other moments, i.e. the negotiation of the programme, is indeed illegal and is intended to assess the entire meeting as being called unlawfully. However, if for some reason this were to turn out differently, which may happen - I cannot anticipate how the Constitutional Court will decide - I, too, would like to introduce two laws which I consider to be a priority here in a reasonable time frame. It is for the reason that I heard the debate yesterday, today, both here in plenary and in the public appearances of many of us in the media, that really those priorities and important things that we think should be discussed are a large number and are much more fundamental than that much discussed, neuralgic from all directions of the pandemic law. The first one I would like to talk about is my first application to the debate, so at this point in time, item 9, House Press 58. It is a government proposal that amends Act No. 111/1994 Coll., on Road Transport, as amended, and other related laws. It's from the logic of the matter, so I'm sure you won't accuse me of acting or asking the House to prioritize the transport law. It's my expertise here in the Chamber of Deputies. So we're talking about this print number 58, its exact name - it's a change not only to Act No. 13/1997, on roads, as they say, road law basic, which defines individual classes of roads, but it is also a change to Act No. 56/2001, on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads, this is the issue of technical competence of vehicles, technical inspection stations, emission measurement and so on, and in this package is changed third law and it has no. 168/1999, on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related regulations. And now I'm going to explain why I want to ask the House for, say, a prioritization or prioritization of this law. At first glance, he seems relatively non-conflict, unproblematic, he is also described by the fact that it is actually in quotation marks only the implementation of the laws of the European Union, but here I want to say, colleagues, really seriously, it is a law where - I do not want to exaggerate - but to the word and to the letter it is about road safety, and therefore it is about human lives. And you all know how overloaded our transport network is, what intensity we experience on our roads today and daily, whether on motorways, on first-class roads or on city bypasses. And right here, this amendment to the law, press 58, wants to improve security, it wants to help make sure there are as few accidents on the roads as possible, don't give bůh even fatal accidents. He's on three topics. First, it increases, controls safety on selected roads - and now beware - already at the time of their design, construction and operation. Secondly - this is not so crucial, I recognise - it regulates the provision of a European electronic toll service, it is a topic mainly for freight transit truck transport that passes through the Czech Republic, and thirdly it improves the provision of information on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border areas, i.e. in such moments as freight transport takes place at the borders of two states. And why I would like to move this law, even in agreement with Mr. Transport Minister Martin Kupka, somewhere in the time of this House earlier, at the end of my speech I will tell my opinion. It's a law that's standardized, not in the so-called '90s, but it would be open at first reading. So you need to explain quickly - and I'll be reasonable in that time span - the history. It follows the directive on infrastructure security, the transport infrastructure, the European directive from November 2009. At that time, the directive made a significant contribution to increasing road safety on the so-called trans-European road network. Surely you all know it, even you who do not deal with transport - it is those motorways, those so-called E-roads that pass transit through the Czech Republic, have a shortcut to the English TEN-T, the trans-European transport network, as the most important communication linking road transport of persons and goods throughout the European Union. At that time, not only the technical improvement of vehicle technical characteristics has been proposed in the directive precisely to reduce road accidents - we all know how technological progress goes quickly - but this is what the amendment of the law is talking about, and also the improvement of road safety properties in terms of infrastructure itself. It was designed there, and a set of tools is still being used to help achieve this goal here. It is, for example, an impartial and professional assessment of the safety of communications at the stage of their design, construction or operation, and it is also proposed and implemented to take corrective measures leading to the removal of identified problematic sites. It is called point defects - these are places that are extremely or extremely dangerous for users. All of this went well in 2009, and now it needs to be improved or expanded even more, to other types of communication. Even then, from the 2009 directive, we introduced into our Czech laws, into our national legal order, a directive foreseen by the so-called Institute of Infrastructure Safety Audit, already designing and construction, it is in four stages. The project documentation is designed and audited, then the design of the project documentation, then the execution of the construction for the test operation, and even the completion of the construction after the approval. [[13.50 hours]] Furthermore, the Law introduced the classification of sections of relevant roads in view of the increased number of fatal traffic accidents and can also classify them into different levels of hazard. In view of the latter classification, so-called mandatory inspections, i.e. mandatory inspections of problematic sections of roads, resulting in the adoption of corrective measures, follow-up. Audits, inspection of communications are carried out there, which are audited persons or persons, road safety auditors who are qualified for this as integrity and professionally qualified persons performing these activities impartially and professionally. And now the reason. Now I finally come to see why I see this law as very important, and I will be honest, for human health and our lives on the roads more important than the pandemic law. The European Commission, when evaluating the amendment or the material from 2009, after ten years, was in 2019, so clearly, clearly, by numbers, according to the accident statistics, it stated that the step was good, that it succeeded, that the infrastructure safety management procedures, as I described them within the trans-European road network, really helped to reduce fatal and serious injuries in the European Union. And now, at the same time, the Commission notes, as I say, that it was in 2019 that the assessment of the effects of the directive shows that those Member States which voluntarily apply the principles of safety management, as I have described - but beware, not only mandatory for the trans-European network, but also voluntarily for their national roads, i.e. classic ones, urban bypasses and the like - have achieved much better road safety as a whole than those which have not done so. I guess even common sense can understand that. So the European Commissioners have concluded that it is desirable that these principles should be extended here and applied to other parts of the roads in the European Union, not only those trans-European ones. And it's logical. Most of you are drivers, you are in operation, you know or know from the media that a large proportion of road accidents are on relatively smaller parts of the roads, on the contrary, but with a great intensity of traffic or with high speeds or with high speed variations. And that's where the amendment, the material that we have here and I'm fighting for, would want to focus on it - from a limited extension of the scope of the directive to highways and other main roads off the grid. If this enlargement succeeds, as the European Union really proposes - it is written directly in the material - it promises a significant improvement in the safety of road infrastructure of all roads in the European Union, so that I can simplify it and not just read it from the background. And like I said, it's pretty logical. Moreover, there is an opinion, an argument that the mandatory application of these procedures - but beware - of every road project in the out-of-town area, which is completed using European Union funds, should ensure that EU funds are not used to build dangerous roads. And it's a logical thing. You know it yourself from different types of European projects, such as my colleague Klára Dostálová could talk about it. It is said who gives money has the conditions under which it wants to put it, so here, too, the European Union simply says: We are able to finance other roads for you. Typical example, I have already mentioned the Minister of Transport, who has experience from regional road transport, twos, threes of roads, which are financed not by the OPD, from the Operational Programme Transport, but from the so-called IROP, from regional operational programmes, so it is through this amendment that the European Commission would like to ensure that we have the resources, but we really need to build those roads more securely. That's why it's important. And that's actually all there is to my argument to make it relevant. It is therefore a Union law that should be reflected in our Czech laws, as I said, primarily into the so-called 13th and the 56th so that we can have a very, very, very, very safer road network. I think this is a very important law for human health, as I have already said. At the same time, it is not conflicting - perhaps I can speak now, of course, not for SPD colleagues, but for us for the YES movement, that we do not see any controversial point in it - that is, it could have relatively broad support here in the Chamber of Deputies. But after all, we're just before the first reading. We see - and please don't take this the wrong way - how efficient or little effective the House is so far, so you can imagine that the second reading, committees and third reading will take some time. And I think that we can all agree here, regardless of the political jersey, that road safety is a clear priority for all of us, and that we will certainly do the best possible and maximum consensus for her. That's why I'd like to beg, it's like a 9th point in the first reading block so far, I think it should be pre-readed. It can be discussed in, say, 20, 25 minutes. I would therefore like to ask, Madam President, once again, that is paragraph 9, House press 58, and I propose that it be included the day after tomorrow, Wednesday morning at 9 a.m., as the first item of the sitting day. Thank you. [[Reactions in the O.R. that it's Wednesday.]] Sorry, Friday. Day after tomorrow, it's Wednesday, so the day after tomorrow, Friday. [[Reactions in the O.R. that there's a budget on Friday.]] That night was long, but that's the budget... I'm sorry. I cannot outrun the budget, so I take it back, and I would like this item to be included tomorrow, Thursday, February 17th, firmly as the first point. We're gonna have an emergency meeting there, so first item on Thursday's meeting day tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u66	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, noted, thank you. You've got two applications, you've already loaded one. Will you continue with the second point? [[Yes.]] Okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u67	Because I do not want to delay, I want to be effective, I will use the time and thank you, Madam President. As far as my second point is concerned, I am also trying to be correct, and I am not leaving my area, so I am still sticking to the transport department. You'll see it in the list of the proposed program just a little bit further away. It's item number 14, House press 76, and that's a government bill that changes... [[The speaker is browsing in his materials.]] Now, I'm sorry, that night was really long. For the tape screen, now I have to correct myself, and for all of you who have certainly paid good attention, I must apologize, but, Madam President, also to you, because I have fabulised a little in the sense that I have correctly included or asked for a pre-position for tomorrow as the first point, I said paragraph 9, House press 58, but my argument that I have now presented was to the second point, to point 14, to the House press 76. I must apologize. After the night shift, you might have a human understanding that I exchanged my two points in the argument I had prepared. So, in order to get out of this correctly and with honor and not to go back to what I have already said unnecessarily, I would, Madam President, recapitulate it once more and promise, and I will really briefly then say the argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u68	Try. We have a deal to end at 2:00. [[I'm sorry to hear that.]] Well, if you speed it up. [[And I'll speed it up, I'll make it, I promise I'll make it.]] Yes, you can do that. So try designing those two points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u69	I'll be right there. So Collo-Returner begs item number 9, print 58, to include tomorrow as the first item of the meeting day and item number 14, House press 76, as the second item right after him. I promise you, for both of them, it'll take more than 30 minutes and they can be discussed. That's my request to the program. [[14.00 hours]] And when I have one more minute, I'm really going to say a few words about the so-called hundred and eleventh, that's the press 58 that I switched, that's the road transport bill. And please, he is really very important to our Czech citizens, to the drivers of trucks and the companies of the so-called cabotage that drives through the Czech Republic transit through Europe. This material wants to improve their conditions, their pay conditions in their work. I think that even you as a coalition, and it's no irony, as you say, we're fighting for the people that we could stand up for the drivers here and allow this press to go through the first reading. Sorry about the switch. I made it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u70	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your suggestions. We mít 13.59. If you agree... Mr. Faltýnek, please. And I'm sorry, it's 2:00, so if you hold, there'll be a budget committee. I think the state budget is very important to us. We will also give the Committee on Budgets an opportunity. I therefore adjourn the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 14:00 to 16:00 on account of the Committee on Budgets. It means we'll meet here at 2:00. [[Reactions in the O.R. that we'll meet at 4:00.]] Thank you, you're right, 4:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u71	Dear colleagues, it is 16 o'clock, we will continue our negotiations. We're still at the point. Agenda of the meeting, proposals for its addition or prioritization of individual points. There are a number of applications, but first I will read the apologies from today's meeting. On 16 February 2022, between 15 and 21 o'clock, Mr Pavel Svoboda apologizes for working reasons as well as 16. 2. 2022 between 16 and 23.59 apologies to Mr Růžička. That's an apology. And we can gradually move on to the next ones logged in to the draft agenda. Jaroslav Faltýnek - I do not see Mr Faltýnek as the next enrollment. Mr Lubomír Brož is another member of the agenda. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u72	Thank you. Mr President, Government, fellow Members. My press is more - you might say - such... or a proposal to modify the program such technical. I'm gonna load it, and then there's gonna be a really short justification. My proposal is to pre-schedule the press 122, it is a report on the economics of Czech Television, before the press 121, it is a report on the activities of Czech Television. Then it's the press...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u73	May I, Mr. Ambassador, just the points of the meeting, not just the press, but the number of the point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u74	So it's point 100, print 122, before point 99, if that's it? [[President: Yes, that's enough, thank you.]] Then it's point 102 before point 101 and point 104 before point 103. The reasoning is very simple because we will discuss reports on the activities of Czech Television and the reports on the management and also according to the discussion on the committee will be rather a discussion - or may be - around the activity, and at the moment it is a follow-up point, there are some important information missing. For example, I will take this from the example of the 2018 report, when it is a turning point, it has to be dealt with by DVBT, some increased costs, and then, of course, it comes into action. Therefore, an understanding of those - one can say - of some economic aspects and context is important. So it's really just so simple that sooner we should get to know the economy, then the activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u75	I'm gonna ask you to make sure I got this right, because some colleagues here wanted to pick up or cancel their application. I'll just say it again, Mr. Ambassador. As the first proposal, you were to assign item number 100, print number 122, before point 99, which is print 121. The second proposal was to put point 104 before point 103. And did you have any other suggestions? [[Member of the Brož: A 102 before 101.]] 101, yes, thank you very much. That was Mr. Brož. Next to the draft agenda is Mrs Adámková. I don't see Mrs Adámková, next in line is Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much for the floor. I would like to place point 51, House press 41, and I would like to place it firmly on Friday 18. 2. 2022 at 13 o'clock. This concerns the amendment of the trade law in the context of shared accommodation. It is basically a proposal of the Prague City representativeship, on which the Ministry of Regional Development worked very intensively. The aim of this proposal is to give municipalities the power to regulate shared accommodation in their territory according to their needs. Since God may be leaving us the pandemic situation, of course, tourism will start to develop again and large cities such as Prague, Brno, Kroměříž and so on have a problem with shared accommodation. So I believe that if we place this press, it can really help this year's tourist season. So much to justify the proposal, I don't want to be long. I would just very much like to comment on what has happened here in the Chamber of Deputies, because I must say that it has been a great disappointment for me that it has actually happened that the Chamber of Deputies has decreased to break the law. I am convinced that the House is to set an example for citizens, and that constitutional lawyers state in the media that the House has broken the law, so that is certainly not a good example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u77	Thank you. I'm just gonna do it again. Madame, you proposed paragraph 51, press 41, to put it firmly on Friday 18. 2. 2022 at 1 p.m.? 13 o'clock, thank you very much. I would just like to point out to the other Members that he is speaking on the agenda of the meeting, not on the manner in which the meeting is being held, so please respect it. Another envoy is Mr Lubomír Wenzl - I do not see, he does not report. Another application for the agenda is Mr. Josef Kott. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the pre-routine of the government's drug bill, House Press 73, today as the second item. There's only one thing that leads me to this. The main objective of the proposal is adaptation to the management of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on veterinary medicinal products and repealing Directive 2001/82, the European Directive, as well as Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the production, placing on the market and use of medicated feedingstuffs amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing on the market and use of medicated feedingstuffs. 183/205 and repealing Directive 90/167/EEC. The most important thing why I am loading this is that the declared objective of this Regulation is to reduce the administrative burden on the veterinary pharmaceutical industry, strengthen the internal market, increase the availability of veterinary medicines and preparations while ensuring the highest level of public health, including addressing antimicrobial resistance, animal health and environmental protection. Most importantly, the regulation has already entered into force 28. 1. 2022, so also for this reason I dare ask you to pre-schedule this point, because The Ministry of Agriculture, by not having this standard fully available, is basically clueless. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u79	Thank you. I'll do it again, too. You propose item number 12, number 73 - amendment to the Act on Medicinal Products - inclusion for today as the second point of our negotiations. Thank you very much. [[16.10 hours]] Another enrollment is Mr Patrik Nacher - he is not present. Next in the order of the agenda was Mr králíček. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u80	Mr President, colleagues, I will be quick, factual, constructive so that someone on social networks, such as Mr Výborný, does not then accuse me of building. Moreover, I would like to put forward government bills, because I think we should discuss them before we start discussing laws such as pandemics. And I would like to put points 20 here - a government bill amending Law No. 261/2020 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with further electronization of the procedure of public authorities. It is the House press 130, first reading according to Section 90, namely as item 1. This is the DEPO that we approved in the last parliamentary term. There is a delay in the effectiveness of the rules on the certification of electronic filing systems on 1 July 2023. For us, the non-conflict press. I think we're gonna need five to ten minutes to approve him, and we're gonna avoid a lot of arbitration and other things. Furthermore, I would like to include point 2, point 21, House press 131, and it is a government bill amending Act No. 181/2014 Coll., on Cyber Security, which is the transposition of EU standards, non-conflict printing. In the last parliamentary term, it was the Parliamentary Press 1100. I think we're gonna need about ten minutes. So I'd like to ask you to assign these two points of government bills as point 1 and number 2. I would just like to conclude by saying, even if I break Mr President's regulation - I would like to join Mr Rakušan's call, because I agree with him. I'm just a little sorry he didn't have such strong words a year ago when the coffins were in front of Mr. Havlíček's house and Mr. Babiš's house. It is also a pity that no one has commented on inciting Mr. Okamura's poisoning. But it's probably a different point of view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u81	Thank you. Just to be safe, the first draft was item number 20, press number 130 as the first point of today's meeting, and the second point just tell me the number, it was print number 131, but the point? [[21.]] Point 21 as the second point of our meeting today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u82	They're both short, and they're government proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u83	Yes, thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Another application by Patrik Nacher after he has not been present twice, so please, he can make his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I originally planned to make five proposals here, but finally I will give three points and I will give them a brief explanation. They have some kind of elemental logic. First of all, I would like to include a point called Political Culture, because you also have e-mails - what's been going on here for the last two days, by the way, what happened in the last hearing of the pandemic law. I'd just like to remind you that we wouldn't have the pandemic law here if the Senate hadn't rejected it by the voices of the coalition senators - so that it wouldn't be forgotten, but I think we'll remember that with him. This political culture certainly includes - the first point, the first point of the negotiations - the fact that the minority is not blackmailing the majority, but that the majority is not at the same time beating the minority. And when I looked here -- because everyone wonders how long these negotiations have been going on here, last time, the pandemic law 35 hours -- so when I looked -- maybe we discussed the construction law for 31.5 hours in the past period, but it took 306 days. What is it given by? This is due to the fact that the negotiating days ended at seven o'clock, nine at the most, that there was no rolling of the majority in relation to the minority - that we would just be here until we were here and until this was discussed. When you look at Dukovany, it's only been 14 hours, and it's been 400 days. That means that, like most of us, we respected the fact that you took a break or that someone was talking and that point was over, and then it wasn't artificially prolonged, that it would be midnight, nonstop one day, one night, two nights. Here we thanked the staff of the Chamber of Deputies several times - I would like to thank them, but they didn't have to do all this. EET - 27.5 hours. And you know how long it's been going on? 457 days, almost a year and a half, but the duration of the negotiations alone is shorter than we discussed the pandemic law. These numbers just have to come out here because it's about the approach that we're either going to be here until we fall asleep, or I'd say unconscious, and that most of them will punish the minority, or they'll actually follow some rules. I've given you some examples here, I don't want to delay. The record is an amendment to the Food Act. It was discussed 8.5 hours in total, but it took 678 days, that's two years. So if it were done this way, all of this is approved, as you can see, within one or two days. So I called it political culture. Let it be proof that our goal is to discuss these matters, the important ones, that we repeatedly propose that the budget be the first point. When we fail, there will be an extraordinary or proper meeting on Friday from nine, when there will be only two points, a budget schedule and a budget. So much for the first point. As a second point, I would like to place it, I would call it a debate or information on a violation of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss what happened last night, and what we wanted to say last night and suggest that yesterday be rebooted. It's already started because it would actually be the meeting if you wanted to put the Senate back there first, which is legitimate, it's always been on Tuesday, but there's a ten-day deadline. Ten days is not a term when there is a legislative emergency. But beware, the state of the legislative emergency under Section 99, I will quote: "In a state of legislative emergency, the House will assess whether the state of the legislative emergency persists before discussing the draft agenda. If it comes to the conclusion that the conditions for its publication have passed, the state of the legislative emergency shall be abolished.' If I took a more detailed description here, which you also relied on last time, we have to confirm at each meeting that there is a legislative emergency, and then we go according to it. That didn't happen yesterday. That didn't happen yesterday! As is the vote, as is the procedural vote. If you look at Section 60, the procedural proposal falls... a procedural proposal relating to the way in which certain items of the programme are discussed is also regarded as a factual remark, which implies that the procedural proposal must be sounded on the microphone. There's no way to put apps in there that it's the same as when it's the veto, as I've heard here, because the veto can present the chair, however much the club president always says it's the microphone. But that's a whole other thing, it's some kind of administrative thing, it's a veto, it's not an invitation to vote. And it's clearly written here that the procedural motion is considered a factual remark that we all normally claim here. So as much as point number two. As you can see, I'm not going to keep it going, I'm not reading anything here, but it seems to me that these are important things that would be good for us to clear up here and make it clear on the outside what happened yesterday. [[16.20 hours]] As the last point, allow me to assign print 41 - you always want the serial number, right? - so that's point 51, the amendment to the Trade Act, that's the proposal of the capital city of Prague, as a third point. Let me just remind you that we've already approved this proposal here once, then he's been interrupted by this meeting, and he's somewhere in the back, in the background. You, in particular Members for Prague, especially for the coalition that reigns in Prague - STAN, Pirates, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL - supported this. I thank you for that, because they are your colleagues who have approved it at the Prague City Council, and in particular, he is a pirate mayor who wants to deal with this, which is why it seems strange to me that then colleagues from the Pirate Party, although not so many, are unable to agree with each other, and in the end it is said that it is not so well written. And I'm just saying or reminding you that I'm in opposition in Prague and it's a proposal prepared by the board, the council approved it unanimously, so my colleagues, the mayor, the club chairman, or the local development minister, Ivan Bartoš, could arrange it and not make all the jokes that we're discussing something, then we'll bring it here, Hana Kordová Marvanová comes here as councillor, we'll interrupt it for nothing. The meeting ended anyway, you remember, Friday, we didn't even discuss it, but we're not really gonna help those people downtown in Prague. I'm here to remind you that there are elections in the fall, and I'm looking forward to it when we're some people who don't want to support it - and I understand that some of them are consistent, like colleagues from the ODS, I respect that - how you'll explain it on the street afterwards: we'd like to accept it, change it, we'd like to help you, but you know, we need to do it conceptually, we need to agree on it across and so on. And that's been known to these people for three or four years. So we've already approved this press once, assigned it, it's there, it's interrupted. It would be fair to deal with it, even by rejecting it, but it's a fair thing these people are waiting for. Even rejection, not fast enough, is better for them than we're going to stretch this place out again with the promise that the Ministry of Regional Development - which, by the way, was also involved here - would come up with something brilliant. And it's gonna be six months again, and it's not gonna work out again. So I'm asking you to point this out - see, it's not a obstructive proposal, nor am I obstructively responding here. Just the fact that you have to defend yourself like this seems completely bizarre to me. I could read the reason message here and what it means to people. I'm not gonna do it, the guys who know it know it, the guys who don't know it, the guys who don't know it, the guys who don't know it, the guys who don't know it, the guys who don't know it, the guys who don't know it, the guys who don't know it, they don't really burn it. I'm just gonna ask you to be fair. Let's put it there, let's discuss it, let's reject it, but it'll be fair to the people we owe this to, with respect, that outside of Prague, the MPs don't care so much. Let me just remind you that in the last parliamentary term, thanks to the coalition-position agreement, we have pushed through some things that were also just about Prague. Remind the currency exchange, remind the taxi driver, remind the car wrecks. These are all things that relate especially to Prague or the big cities, but somehow we agreed. So it has to do with the first point of the political culture. Let's set up a new political culture and include something that was just technically interrupted by STAN's chairman, who wanted to discuss a correspondence choice that we didn't even start, and let's negotiate. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support. So that would be the third point of the negotiations after the two I said, or after some other points in case the two points fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u85	Yes, thank you. I'm just going to check with that third proposal - it was to put point 51, print 41 as the third point of our negotiations. [[Ambassador Nacher agrees.]] Thank you. I'll read the apologies. President Radim Fiala apologizes for today's meeting between 16 and 21 o'clock for health reasons, today between 16 and midnight due to illness, between 16 and 19 o'clock for working reasons Mr Wenzl and between 21 and 9 o'clock until the end of the day due to illness, Mr Vondrák and finally between 16 and 17 o'clock Mr Hendrych without giving any reason. Well, that was an apology. Next on the agenda is Mr Marek Novák. Mr Marek Novák is not present, so I will ask another member of the agenda, Mr Ondřej Babka. He's giving up his application, or two. Another candidate for the draft agenda is Mr Karel Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u86	Hello. Madam Secretary - a moment ago it was here - Mr President, I have a request or a request to add a new item to the agenda of the meeting, which would have been called the Financing of the Education Department. Why the Department of Education? Well, because I think we're all advertising here that it's a strategic issue and that it needs to be cared for, on the other hand, in the government's programming statement, I found a single specific number, and that was 130 percent addition to pay growth to so-called teaching staff, which really means high school teachers and elementary school teachers, and non-teachers, janitors, cooks, and I don't know who everything, administration, anything at all. A completely separate issue in the labour field then remains a traditional topic, which is often mentioned here by the representation of universities, and these are the wages of academic workers, because when it comes to adding, the government thinks regional and secondary education and universities are neglected, and I would therefore point out what is in Chapter 333, when it says that there are a number of higher education workers who are basically on this - given the impossibility of obtaining some external projects - they are financially beaten, so they are better off in secondary schools. But I don't want to go into detail, that's related... here I could still talk about the quality of universities, which is obviously related to changes in the laws that we should make, and we should discuss quite a lot, and not just the committees, but also here in the House. I mean the law on universities, then the so-called 100th, or the law on science and research, the school law, and so on. I just wanted to say briefly that I see the need to discuss the financing of the Education Department, and I would like to put this item on the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u87	Sorry, let's just recap. You propose to include a new item called Funding the Department of Education. Just tell me when you can do it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u88	As far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u89	You have to always tell me what point of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u90	Well, since there's an overpressure now, I'd rather vote for that week - I mean on Tuesday, March 1st, I have a feeling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u91	On Tuesday, March 1st, the first point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u92	Maybe the first point, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u93	Thank you, that was Mr. Rais. Mr Vondráček is now registered. I'm guessing two applications will connect the show to one. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My proposal, as stated on the written application, concerns the vote to abolish the state of legislative emergency. I'm saying that in advance because I know how difficult it is to listen to the person who's performing and to hunt the proposal. I'd like to go back to what happened here yesterday at the opening of the meeting. When studying the tapestry, I checked that the President, when she opened the meeting, said the sentence: "We received the press concerning the pandemic law returned from the Senate on 11 February, i.e. in accordance with Section 97, the deadline of 15 February is fulfilled and we can discuss it." That's all there is to it. I just want to point out that the time limit in Section 97, I suspect, paragraph. 3, is ten days. If I were Sheldon Cooper, I'd say, what universe is 11 + 10 = 15 in? The ten-day deadline was in no way met, and we did not get any more because Mr Okamura spoke with priority rights and began to speak to the agenda of the meeting. We haven't dealt with a state of legislative emergency. After the grémium, I learned that there is a position of legislation that if we declared an emergency at the last meeting sometime in January, that is sufficient and that is all we are going to worry about. I think it's the third episode in a tragic comedy called the pandemic law. The first episode took place here on February 2nd, when we passed the law in violation of the conditions of the state of legislative emergency, when these conditions did not exist objectively. We drew attention to this, I spoke to you, I quoted the Constitutional Court's finding, yet you approved this law in a shortened procedure, in which the rights of a parliamentary minority, which cannot, in principle, submit any amendments, does not have sufficient time to prepare for this, are limited by the right to speak, as there was limited time to speak. The second episode of this tragedy took place in the Senate, when the Senate repeated the objections that we have called you here. The YES movement didn't cover a minute, we performed completely factually and briefly, and yet your own senators repeated the arguments that we told you. The third part of this tragedy - I hope the last - took place yesterday, when the House, contrary to the Rules of Procedure in force, did not decide against the law that there was a legislative emergency. Let's see if the fourth part of the tragic comedy will follow with the participation of the senators who will present their arguments to you. I will read you one sentence from the book, which is also a commentary of the Rules of Procedure, a comment which was essentially not called into question by any decision-making practice. In Article 99 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 4 says: "In a state of legislative emergency, the House will assess whether the situation of a legislative emergency persists before discussing the draft agenda. " If someone in the law tells you that the House will discuss, then I will take the press, the comment, I will look a few pages further, and here is a clear explanation: "Before deciding on the agenda of the plenary session, if the decision is made at the time of the House President's declared state of legislative emergency, the House still has to decide whether the state of legislative emergency remains. " When it says in the Rules of Procedure that the House will discuss, it means that it must discuss. But we didn't do this. Why? Since you already knew in advance that SPD and Tomio Okamura were going to reconstruct, so you wanted to reduce his arena, you wanted to save yourself one debate. I would have understood that, because we spent the whole night here on the same topic last time, but you can't do it at the expense of the law. Some one assessment - and it is not an authoritarian interpretation of an employee of a legislative department - cannot warrant you to do so, and you cannot be disdainful of other legal opinions. The point is that the legislative emergency was announced on 20 January, when the pandemic situation was completely different. We have devoted ourselves to the second and third reading of the press on February 2 and we, members of the ANO movement, have more or less not acted and have approved the state of legislative emergency. After the Senate's objections, we have it back, but it's 10. 2, it is a month later, the pandemic situation and the social situation at all is dynamically evolving and it is completely different, and here the law requires us that the Chamber of Deputies always pay attention to whether the conditions of the state of legislative emergency are actually set. These conditions are very restrictive and the Constitutional Court talks about this in several finds. I turned to Dr. Koudelka's position from Brno and wrote this very quickly: "The state of legislative emergency should be re-confirmed. The state of legislative emergency is an extraordinary process for the adoption of laws; the rights of Members can be limited, for example, by limiting the length of speeches. Since the original discussion in the House, a longer period of time could have elapsed when the Senate or the President could have returned the law.' That's exactly the example I'm talking about. If a majority of Members think that there is still a reason for a legislative emergency, they can confirm this by voting, so there is reason to vote again and to confirm a legislative emergency. This vote must always be required in accordance with the law. This is not my invention, this interpretation is based on the basic principle that extraordinary procedures, including the approval of a law in a legislative emergency, should only be used exceptionally. Each institution is always obliged, in an emergency procedure, to examine whether the reasons for the emergency procedure persist, which also serves to confirm the emergency procedure in a state of legislative emergency in return to the Senate. The Senate has made it clear by its vote that they do not see the reason for adopting the returned law. He is questioning the Government's arguments for legislative emergencies. We didn't deal with this at all because we wanted to save time by debating and obstructing the SPD. There's been a gross violation of the law. I also received some arguments that there was no vote in the past. I want to assure you that for the entire last parliamentary term, all the time I was President of the Chamber of Deputies, and especially all the time the covido crisis involved has always been re-voted and confirmed by the state of legislative emergency. Sometimes we did it completely without any wider discussion, because it was clear that the emergency was going on. I'll give you an example. I've got, like, Tuesday, May 25, 2021, which was, I don't know, the 111th or the 114th meeting. In any event, the resolution was voted: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. For example, I have the same resolution from Wednesday, 7 July 2021. We've always done this, you won't find a single meeting without a vote. If anyone here said otherwise, there was never a different vote at the time of the covid crisis. [[16.40 hours]] With regard to the changed circumstances - we cannot ignore that in the present state - the quarantine is now ending, so apparently the Minister is no longer afraid of spreading the disease. The vaccination has been stopped, in principle it will not be vaccinated, for yesterday not even 10,000 and most are third doses, the Ministry has completely abolished the support for the first dose vaccination. Basically, there's no fear that covid could come back, or they'd have to act differently, the government. But the main thing is that we remain at 75 percent of the population of 18+ and 65 percent of the population, i.e. the numbers that the government of Andrej Babiš has arranged. The vaccination is stopped at third doses, the registration is almost not working at all. Minister Válek promised to revive the vaccination with the arrival of a new Novavax vaccine. Minister Válek promised interest of up to 800,000. Do you know how much interest there is at present? 15,000. Free tests have been canceled since March, thereby shutting down another element that worked as prevention and tasked to reduce the risk of spread of the disease. Unlike the neighbouring states, which are also relaxing, the minister here has accelerated by abolishing even the demonstration of vaccination or disease into closed areas where there are more people. The Minister disturbs people in hygiene, although he denied it several times - he also justified cuts by no longer need to be traced. When we finished discussing the second and third readings, Minister Válek spoke at the end and said that the pandemic law treats it as an insurance policy that never applies. The Prime Minister said in the interview that he hoped that the pandemic law would never apply. These are all confessions online in public space that convict the petitioners of the fact that there is no state of legislative emergency, and we cannot continue the state of legislative emergency. If anyone argues that this does not mean that we have voted on this several times, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court has also responded to this and states: "The rules of the legislative process are contained in various sources of parliamentary law, including, in particular, the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the rules of procedure of the two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, the detailed rules of negotiations adopted by the resolutions of the various chambers of Parliament on the basis of Section 1 (1). Two of their Rules of Procedure, the so-called autonomous resolutions, and also' - and I emphasise this now - 'the consistent practice of the parliamentary chamber and its institutions, which, thanks to a long-term repetition, can be considered as an unwritten part of the legislative procedure if it can be found to be consistent with higher values of law-making'. Getting used to here and voting in favour of a state of legislative emergency and confirming it means that we are obliged to vote on it. And you, to save some time with Mr. Okamura, ignored it. The pandemic law has already received quite a lot of slaps and the lawyer, who will write a motion to abolish the law to the Constitutional Court, will have a good job, will have a lot of materials. I think he'll also have a high chance of success in this proceeding. And you know what you're presenting, and you don't care. You're knowingly breaking the law with the fact that you need the law from March 1st, and he's gonna stop paying in January anyway. And by the time the Constitutional Court gets to it, the water will close. But I don't think I can keep quiet. Can't keep quiet even the YES movement on such a practice and we have to retreat strongly because this is how it starts, and where will it continue? The law is broken, customs are broken. I'll read you some more, because I have to shorten my negotiations, but unfortunately I have a live broadcast in a moment, I have some beautiful constitutional findings prepared for you. Maybe there's still room for me to get back to that in the pandemic law discussion. But I found a contribution, for example, by a former Member, who wrote: "Several sentences about what is happening in the House as a parliamentary memorial. From the perspective of the present House, I'm very sad as a citizen. Why? The five-calice decided to go "winner takes all" style, from the staff, where, by the way, five coalition politicians against one opposition Vice-President for YES cannot unblock the House and only look at the opposition's consistent use of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, to the obvious abuse of the Institute of Legislative Emergency, which in the past in similar lusts similar to the right-wing coalition was clearly judicature by the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. It turns out that coalition masters - written in quotation marks - "political crafts have gone to executives and thus the coalition, thanks to the newcomers at the head of the House, has complicated its operation, but especially the operation of the state. Opposite fachmani are being done, which is their job, by the way. We are a parliamentary Republic, and if Parliament does not work with a robust majority of Parliament's 108 votes, it is up to you to do so." And now a few words from the memoir: "I have seen as chairman of the largest club both government involvement in the coalition with 101 MPs and the role of opposition club after the election result 100 to 100. In both of these situations, the House worked, thanks to communication between government and opposition clubs. The negotiations were sometimes heated and harsh, but at the end there was a result and agreements were honored. For example, we were able to agree with Jan Kasal, Jaromír Talíř, Karel Kühnl, Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik, Ivan Langer, Vlastimil Tlustý or Petr Tluchoř." End of quote. We now absolutely miss these parliamentary mechanisms. The ruling coalition is trying to roll the opposition. As a result, we've been spending several nights here, and I don't feel like we've been spending any productive time here. Since it is written in the Rules of Procedure that the state of legislative emergency should be decided before the vote on the agenda of the meeting, I call on you once again from this place to carry out this vote. And if you want to vote on something in this House so that it is legitimate, transparent and that the legitimacy of your decision is confirmed, there must be a debate, because the voter wants to know why you voted as you voted. So there should be a debate, as we have always been. Although I admit, and I am really objective and I am not an extra emotionally interested person, the comment states that 'that is why the debate is likely to be admissible'. I think that we have put in place such a practice that the debate is being held and that is why I am calling you again, open the debate. I don't know anybody from the YES movement who wants to perform in it. Let us vote that the situation of legislative emergency is ongoing or not. In order to make this proposal, I called the point which Mr President has on him the proposal to abolish the state of legislative emergency. I therefore propose that we vote on the abolition of the state of legislative emergency. The correct procedure is to open the debate, debate, end the debate, vote. If you come to the conclusion that we are to vote without debate, I think that you are in conflict with the Rules of Procedure and practice, but at least there will be a vote. If you fail to comply with me now and there will be no legislative emergency vote at all, it will not be confirmed or cancelled, you are violating the laws of the Czech Republic in a flagrant way. And yet I think, with all due respect, as Mr Faltýnek said, to all of us, it is useless, because the votes you have on it, the state of legislative emergency would be confirmed, we could move on, and there would be no such mistake, which maybe the pandemic law will become further points in the Constitutional Court. That's the first point. And I say, I have not read to you the constitutional findings on how we are to treat ourselves here and what it is to protect a parliamentary minority against a parliamentary majority and how extraordinary the circumstances must be in order to shorten the procedure. The second application concerns my printing 1 and 2. You may recall some of the beginnings of the previous parliamentary term, when we had the monochrome government of the YES movement. The government didn't even have the support to enforce the agenda in the Chamber of Deputies, and we had to proceed so that we discussed the laws as they came to the House - one, two, three. Those were the good times who remembered. The order was followed, and everyone was measured the same way. [[16.50 hours]] I've got press number one and press number two, lobbying law and related. And although it's press 1 and we're dealing with press 127 today, which has already been returned from the Senate, it hasn't reached it yet. Therefore, I propose that the Act on lobbying be put on the agenda for this meeting, so that it is placed as the first alternative point, I propose that it be the first on Tuesday, 1 March. If this proposal is not accepted, please, I am always talking about printing 1 and 2 for order, so first and second points. If not, then I propose the first and second points on Tuesday at 4:00 p.m. If not, on Wednesday, March 2 I propose the first point of the afternoon negotiations, 1 and 2. If not granted, I propose a firm classification at 17.00 on Wednesday 2 March. And now I was ready to read the whole explanatory report of the Act on lobbying, because lobbying, as it is written, is in the Czech Republic, unlike other states without special legislation in the Czech Republic. The area of lobbying is very difficult to regulate due to the unwillingness of many de facto lobbying actors to sign up for lobby activity or to call it lobbying. However, this alone cannot be a reason to avoid this area from the point of view of its potential regulation. In recent years, several efforts to regulate this phenomenon have emerged in connection with the causes of non-discriminatory influence on political decisions. It was both parliamentary and government legislative proposals. However, none of them has been accepted and the relations of politicians and top public officials with lobbyists are thus no longer explicitly regulated. Of course, there is great pressure from various organizations to adopt this law. It is, of course, part of the recommendations of the GRECO Group of States. It is, of course, something that other international organisations are also dealing with. All of this is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, including the OECD. However, what is important is that lobbying is explicitly mentioned as one of the conditions for drawing up the National Recovery Plan funds. If we do not have a lobbying law adopted in this Republic, billions of European funds, European money, are at risk. That's a proven fact I've been telling you for the third time. I come here as an opposition MP, and I advocate a matter on which a government coalition should sit day and night and should enforce it instead of an unnecessary pandemic law, which will never be used anyway, as Minister Válek said, and which will sleep quietly in November of this year. Billions at risk! We in this House have nothing to do with what is needed in this Republic. Therefore, I am asking you once again, and to those who will raise their hand and press the button, thank you for including the press number 1 and 2, which have been with us since the very beginning of the parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u95	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'm just gonna recap. I'm sorry, I didn't catch all the alternate ones. I'll read it. As a second, you proposed printing number 1 and 2, the Act on lobbying and related, to include the first and second points on Tuesday 1. 3. Alternatively, Wednesday...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u96	No, there was still an alternative to firmly include at 16.00 on the same day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u97	So wait, alternatively firmly 16.00 the same day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u98	Next, the first and second points of the afternoon meeting on Wednesday 2 March.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u99	First and second points in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u100	If this proposal is not accepted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u101	The date of the afternoon meeting, March 2nd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u102	Wednesday. And if this proposal is not adopted, then a firm inclusion on Wednesday, March 2, 17.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u103	And on that first point, you're suggesting when, the motion to cancel a legislative emergency? As the first item in today's meeting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u104	Well, that's the catch, because it can't be a point of action. It is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that this must be done before the programme is approved, before the agenda is discussed. Mr. Tomio Okamura just got in here and started talking right on the agenda. But I think it's voteable before we decide on the program. That means, first, let there be a debate on the state of legislative emergency, and if there are still conditions under which it was announced on January 10th, the pandemic is somewhere completely different during that time. I'm a layman, I'm just following public statements. So we would have a debate, or we wouldn't have a debate. In any case, we should vote on it, 100%. And then the program should be approved, so that's not a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u105	I'm afraid, but right now, we're part of the agenda of the meeting, that we need to include this as a point. That's why logic gives me the first point so we can even vote on it, but I'm not forcing you to do it. Or I'll put out a break, and somehow we'll figure out a way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u106	Logic may be correct, but the Rules of Procedure speak differently. We acted illogically at the beginning of the meeting when the President passed without any comment. I don't think we can decide this after the programme has been approved, because the vote applies to the meeting, not to any law, but to the meeting and to the state of the legislative emergency. And before we approve the programme, we need to know if there are conditions for a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u107	Okay. Then I will, if I may, announce a recess before the vote on the programme, so that we can deal with this in some way after consulting the legislation and colleagues. But O.K., I accept this reminder of yours. That was Mr. Vondráček. I'm gonna reread those who are already failing. I'll ask, and if you say so, do you want those applications to fail? Mr. Faltýnek, who also apologized, so if I may consider it expired? Mrs Adámková - she is here, great. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u108	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have said from this place several times that the time of the covid will surely pass and we will have other concerns, and that time is coming. It is not only because you see, there are proposals for dislodgement, so we are completely in line, but there are a number of suggestions coming from the terrain, and unfortunately we have to say that probably even in good faith there is non-compliance with the hygiene rules of the working environment, which may seem distant, but it is very related. This is especially a training facility of all types, where ventilation is currently recommended. It may seem smiling to you again, but it is a very, very interesting matter and very important to the health of our children, which you may not realize, but it is. So I'm going to propose a point that I'm going to briefly justify. For the working environment, which is for teachers, for children it is also a work environment in a sense, there are a number of decrees that must meet all this. Of course, we have here the hygiene authorities of the work that oversees this, but at the moment I do not think they have the time to do this. Probably some recommendations were made to school workers, which are certainly meant well, but they did not get the methodology. I am very sorry that Minister Válek is leaving, because unfortunately it will fall on him anyway, what I want to put as a point of work, because no one else will be able to deal with it. So I'd like to say something about it. [[17,00 hours]] Hygiene, of course, also deals with ventilation, lighting, but also monitors the movement and speed of air flow by the ground, which is for children in school facilities, kindergarten and so on. And what he's writing me on the ground, and I have dozens of e-mails for it, of course, is the parents' concern that these kids are, unfortunately, already exposed outside of vacation conditions, let's say, to the hygiene of work. So there is no categorization of the workplace at all. I'm sure the hygiene of work doesn't follow, because everyone thinks well. Please understand that they're asking us a question, they're not criticizing us, they want us, but they don't know. So I just want to remind you why I think we should talk about this, maybe adjust the methodology, but it is already a matter for the ministers of this government to share, of course. So, first of all, there's a temperature in the workplace, maybe in school classes. There is an obligation to create a safe and healthy environment, including - please, nicely - the effects of viruses and bacteria, which I believe is also not being observed at present. It clearly states how to wash surfaces, railings, handrails, and my parents, including the addresses of the devices, show me that this is not the case. They probably can't keep up with your employees. And if there is an air conditioning unit, there is also a clear indication of what the temperature difference between the external and the internal environment can be, and once again they have proof that this is not the case. Temperature measurement, for your idea, only in these devices so that it can be demonstrated that it is correct, can not be done by bringing a thermometer from home, but must be given by a ball thermometer, there are clearly given limits and the limits are measured both at the floor, where the children in kindergarten, of course, spend some time, as well as on benches for school children. And the ventilation is that the windows really open to them. So we have a series of absolutely nominal suggestions with the addresses of those schools where the first, second class children sit by the windows, there are open windows, they write, of course wrong. We have here the nominal addresses of kindergartens, where parents ask whether it would be possible to improve supervision there or tell them how to do it. So for your idea, maybe you just have to measure the temperature in the level of the head, ankle and the difference must not be greater than three degrees Celsius for an adult. So all of this, if it were to come true, it's really quite challenging. And so is the air flow here, even by the ground, which I'm sure will also not be fully fulfilled. So to get to what this terrain requires of us and what it wants from us now also means a clear methodology, and because it is the interaction of several ministries - it cannot only be done by the Ministry of Health, because it does not affect the Ministry of Education and the like - and there is another thing that shows up, and that is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because according to practices, pediatricians are growing significantly non-covoid - I warn non-covoid - respiratory diseases, because these children will probably just catch cold. So, what's going on here? Once again, the caregivers are non-covides, I warn you, not any favorable, non-covides. So I would like to propose the inclusion of a point that I have called the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic - and I do not care how the Prime Minister breaks it down into individual ministers, I will certainly not speak to it - compliance with the hygiene methodology of the work of kindergarten, primary school and secondary school as a prevention of viral diseases. And please include either on 1 March as the third item of the programme, if not possible, please on 2 March for 16 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u109	Madam, thank you. I wrote the long title here, which I certainly wasn't enough, then I didn't notice, it wasn't enough times, but I'll read it. Information Government of the Czech Republic about compliance with hygiene at the school...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u110	Please don't do that. We'd like to see the government impossible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u111	Or can you write it down for me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u112	It's possible. I'll write it down for you. This is a methodology, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u113	Yeah, hand it to me in writing, I'll write it down later. Thank you very much, and then I'll ask those times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u114	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u115	I'm gonna ask you to dictate the times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u116	1 March as the third item of the programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u117	March 1rd item of the programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u118	If it's not possible, I don't know what else is in there, March 2nd, 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u119	Alternatively, March 2, 16 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u120	Yes, thank you. I'll give you a readable note. [[Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u121	That was Mrs Adámková. Mr Lubomír Wenzl is next in line. [[A voice from the diaper, excused.]] He's not present. Mrs Šafránková, who hereby cancels her apology at the same time, is applying for the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose the inclusion of a point on the agenda of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies called Help to Traders and Czech companies affected by the effects of government measures and inadequate compensation by the Government of Petr Fiala. For the SPD movement, one of the main priorities, areas of interest and one of the main programme priorities is the pursuit of versatile and systemic assistance to our businessmen, self-employed persons and also to small Czech companies. This conviction has been substantially intensified with the outbreak of the Coronanavir epidemic in March 2020, which immediately followed a severe and often unjustified government restriction on business activities, thus creating an acute need to create a system of assistance and support for these groups of citizens, as well as, of course, support for their employees and their families. It is therefore very sad for us to find that Petr Fiala's government has been helping our tradesmen affected by these long-term restrictions since its entry, even in its programming documents, and especially in its practical everyday activities. On the contrary, we consider the support of this social group to be very crucial in the SPD, especially today, when all government epidemiology measures of the past two years and associated phenomena, including recent rapid growth in energy commodity prices, are hard on them. It is indisputable that our businessmen and small Czech companies, after two years of hard measures that restrict and destroy their business, clearly deserve significant and, above all, really effective and fair assistance from the state, help that will prevent the demise of other and other businesses and which will also support honest-working small entrepreneurs in the future and enable them to restart their business. This will also help to save thousands of jobs, because our businessmen are in many cases employers of other Czech citizens, which is often well realized, including the whole-socially positive importance of this employment. In our work in the previous and also in this parliamentary term in the Chamber of Deputies, we have fought for the rights and interests of our tradesmen for almost two years, as well as for various compensations for restrictions on business and the closure of their establishments. In particular, it was a struggle for the form of a so-called compensatory bonus and its parameters in order to be achieved by really all tradesmen affected by these measures and whose rights the former government, as well as the current, has often ignored, for example, in the sense that such compensation should qualify for tradesmen for the so-called self-employed activity, such as old-age and disabled pensioners and students, as well as those tradesmen who work on labour agreements and work-related agreements, or for the enforcement of the right of tradesmen to extraordinary care for children at the time of school and kindergartens. Unfortunately, because of the conditions at the time in the House, we have not succeeded in pushing for some of the major damage and error, and we consider the rejection of our proposals aimed at the remission of compulsory social and health contributions to all businesses affected by government restrictive measures for the whole of 2021, which would really help them very clearly, and would enable many of them to survive their business. Even now, in 2022, such a measure would be entirely appropriate. [[17.10 hours]] Furthermore, we have failed to push for three attempts to ensure that all partners of all these limited liability companies who were prevented or severely restricted during the epidemic, not only partners of maximum two-membered Eserócs, which was totally unjustified discrimination. With a common and several hand, the proposal was rejected by both the former government of the ANO movement and the current five-calice movement, which, although verbally claiming to support the tradesmen, is a completely false position, in practice the opposite is true. According to their real steps, Petr Fiala's government's attitude towards our businessmen and businessmen is quite hostile. For example, this is demonstrated by the early termination of Antivirus B, which helped keep employees' jobs in sectors affected by restrictions on business and a subsequent decline in income. Above all, in the House we can see that the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the entire government are very lax about extending the programme of financial assistance to businessmen and companies affected by ongoing restrictive measures, especially in the field of services. On 31 January, completely without compensation, the period for which the so-called compensatory bonus can be requested due to the decline in sales in connection with business restrictions has not yet been announced in December by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and the announced calls for financial compensation in the last two functional programmes of the Ministry to assist COVID entrepreneurs - Uncovered costs and COVID 2021 - although restrictions on business activities, such as restrictions on the number of persons at cultural and sporting events and the like, continue to insist - that we learn from Minister Síkela a few days ago that these programmes will no longer continue, which is a slap in the face of our entrepreneurs, a violation of the promise and the principle of legitimate expectations that these entrepreneurs have had. And I am not talking about the zero activity of this ministry and the current government in helping Czech tradesmen and companies affected by astronomical growth in prices, electricity and gas. This is a completely cynical and tedious position, especially if we know that when electricity or gas is generated in a so-called business place, not in a private housing place regime, not only is it not possible to use a hypothetical and insufficient option to apply for a housing allowance, but above all, the prices of energy commodities are much higher in demand points intended for business than in housing properties and their last growth is already completely liquidation for many entrepreneurs. The prepared programs Helping entrepreneurs introduced by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in recent days are very weak and inadequate. The vast majority of businessmen and companies affected by restrictions on the operation of trade and services cannot meet the strictly set criteria for entitlement to state financial assistance, as convincingly demonstrated in their opinions by various business associations and associations such as the Association of Entrepreneurs in Gastronomy or the Association of South Moravian Traders and Entrepreneurs. We also consider absolutely inadequate communication between the government and the Ministry of Industry and Trade towards desperate businessmen and entrepreneurs who have asked about the form, deadlines and conditions of new compensatory programmes in recent days and weeks. The answer was, as dozens, or rather hundreds of incentives, which I received only in my electoral region, mere silence. Absolutely zero response. Do you consider that normal, dear government? We therefore know that the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela, at a press conference on 9 February, said that some old Ministry programmes will be renotated in the short term to help businessmen, and after an additional question by the journalist, stated that the condition for entry into these programmes will be a decline of 50 percent and that this decline will be compared to the period of November to December 2021, not the entire second half of last year, as it was before. All relevant business associations agree that these conditions had to be designed in such a way that they could not be helped by any entity that tried to survive honestly for two years and which operated its business in a time of harsh restrictions. The concrete form of compensation is still not specified, which causes enormous problems for individual entrepreneurs and companies, for example in negotiations with their creditors, which again is absolutely disastrous. But it is quite obvious, especially on the basis of the expression of tradesmen and various business associations, that the Ministry, despite the opposite proclamation, seeks to reduce compensation and financial compensation to entrepreneurs as much as possible, without any moral, but also economic and economic authority. Outside the limits of any decency and understanding are some statements against entrepreneurs in the sense that this is the last aid that will be given to them in connection with the impact of government restrictive measures, and that they should consider whether they will continue to work and do business in their fields, because the government is not going to maintain them on some kind of transfusion. This is an absolute outrage, especially from the government, which is made up of subjects always pretending to be those who stand on the side of Czech businessmen and Czech entrepreneurs. It is not only an arrogant attitude but also a strong antisocial attitude, as is a strong practice and rule in this government. Because if Petr Fiala's government is already completely refusing to help entrepreneurs in the future, even though some restrictive measures are still in force, one can clearly expect, among other things: mass, in some areas, literally massive and flat redundancies of the employees of these entrepreneurs, job losses, increases in unemployment and public finances in terms of both insurance and non-insurance benefits, increases in auditions, insolvencys and executions, the decline of thousands of people in debt traps, the extinction of thousands of trades. When we realize that this government has absurdly ended the Antivirus B programme, which was aimed precisely at promoting employment in sectors affected by restrictive measures, it is literally a lethal combination and it will be necessary to immediately activate the cursarbeit. This government often wields Western patterns, especially German ones, but only when it suits it. But it is in the situation that we are talking about that our government in Germany could be inspired, for example by the Neustarthilfe programme to help entrepreneurs, which will still work throughout the year 2022, and concerns, addressably, precisely those disciplines that have been affected by regulations on the prohibition of the entry of non-inoculated citizens into the relevant establishments, shops and services. But we'd probably want too much from our incompetent government. The SPD movement says clearly and works in this sense: Let us respect our businessmen and entrepreneurs, who are the famous salt of the country, the engine of its economy and employment and the basic support of the system of public tax revenue. On this point, I would also propose a resolution which reads as follows: "I. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to draw up and submit an amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus for 2022 without delay, which would allow the financial assistance of traders and entrepreneurs affected by the effects of government restrictive measures for the period after 31 January of this year. II. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Trade to quickly develop and submit realistic, effective and available special programmes to assist businessmen and entrepreneurs in the fields that were and continue to be affected by government restrictive measures in 2022, such as regulations on the maximum number of persons who can participate in selected events in the field of culture and sport. III. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to make it its priority in helping businessmen and entrepreneurs affected by restrictive measures the protection of employment and jobs of Czech citizens." I therefore ask you to include this item on the agenda for this meeting and please include it as the points proposed by President Okamura. Thank you for your attention and please support this important point for our businessmen, Czech companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u123	Thank you. For the points proposed by Mr Okamura? Is there any way you can specify that? What point should it be, what day?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u124	I ask that this be as the fourth point after the first three points proposed by President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u125	Like the fourth point of today's meeting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u126	Yes, as the fourth point of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u127	Thank you. That was Mrs Šafránková. Another application for the agenda is Mr. Oldřich Černý. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'll read the apology with permission. Today, 16. 2. for the rest of the day, Mr Babiš apologizes for reasons of work and between 17 and half six, for reasons of work of Mrs Helena Válková. Mr. Černý, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u128	Good evening, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, dear Members, mostly absent government, honourable citizens of the Czech Republic, I would like to propose an extraordinary point at today's meeting on the reliability of antibodies after a covid-19 infection. [[17.20 hours]] The presence of antibodies is more reliable evidence of an infection and a subsequent immune response than mere PCR positivity, because the antibodies are also shown by an immune response to the infection. The more sensitive VNT method reliably detects neutralising antibodies in some people after having an infection, even though they also have a negative outcome by the IgG immunochemical method. Only neutralising antibodies are protective, as pseudo-neutralising antibodies do not exist. The neutralising antibodies are best correlated with Mg antiS1 or RBD, but they are not entirely identical sets. However, for practical reasons due to high conformity, methods for the IgG antiS1/RBD can be replaced by a virus neutralising test. We recognize the two main meanings of the determination of antibodies, which are often confused with one another. First of all, they're antibodies like a diagnostic marker of a diseased infection. In this case, antibody positivity means that the patient has had an infection in the past resulting in a specific immune response. It doesn't matter what the measured value is, because each positive means that the infection has taken place. It is a marker of the present infection and at the same time a surrogacy marker of the complete immune response including mucus and cell. The qualitative result is positive or negative enough in this indication. The result can only be applied without reservation to those who have not been vaccinated because we will not distinguish between the antibodies being only post-vaccinated or also post-infectious. Additional antibody testing could be applied here against NPs that only produce people after infection, but not all of them, so all vaccinated cannot be reliably detected with antibodies. However, the presence of antibodies in any amount is a very reliable evidence of infection. We know that reinfections are rare, and symptomatic reinfections with a serious course of even extremely rare. It can therefore be said that any positiveness of antibodies in non-vaccine individuals means with a high degree of certainty that the person concerned is immune to repeated infection, and the likelihood that he might infect someone is minimal in this case. This, of course, does not mean that vaccinations after losing time are more contagious, but they cannot be shown by antiS1 antibodies that they have experienced the infection. The second meaning of determination means antibodies such as corelate anti-infectious protection. This indication applies to the determination of antibodies in particular to vaccinated vaccines. It turns out that vaccinations can become ill even if they have antibodies after vaccination. Therefore, it can be assumed that the level of protection, including other components of the post-vacation immunity, decreases with decreasing levels of antibodies. Therefore, it is desirable, in particular, to determine the so-called protective antibody level for vaccinated patients. Based on the empire and experience so far, we could suggest double the value at the provisional protective level and recommend re-occurrence if post-vacation antibodies fall below this level. More precisely, we can already determine this value based on the data available to us. For this purpose, I propose to immediately introduce a record of the results of antibodies from all laboratories in the Czech Republic in the ISIN database, possibly backwards, and to evaluate the number and severity of breakthrough infections in relation to the measured antibody values before the disease. Thus, it would be possible to find a protective level and on this basis to propose targeted administration of booster doses. We need to know what levels of antibodies before the disease are being vaccinated by people in the ICU. It cannot be ruled out that these could be people not only with low levels but also with very high levels of antibodies, which could trigger, for example, immune complex reactions. In these people, the booster dose would be counterproductive. These data should be collected and analysed. Duration of protection: Based on the available data, the protection lasts for at least seven months in the presence of post-infectious antibodies. According to data from the IHIS, we know that people with reinfections are virtually absent from the ICU and generally in hospitals at least, with repeated disease from the start of the registration - about a year and a half - is evaluated as reinfection. In view of these facts, it is quite safe to set a protection period of six months, probably even a little longer. If it turns out that the loss of the disease protects the same or better than the vaccination - let's face it - post-infectious immunity can be extended further. Antibody results should be reported to ISIN as well as PCR test results. Proposal for the use of antibodies in connection with hospital congestion: We know that people get sick very rarely after the disease has passed, which is why quarantine is unnecessary because the risk of their reinfection is slim, even lower than the risk of a breakthrough infection in vaccinated without a previous infection. Although PCR positivity alone may not be an absolute guarantee of immunity, people with antibodies after infection would certainly not have to be quarantined. That would make it a lot easier for all hospitals. Finally, I would say that I drew from the article MUDr. Hana Zelená located on the website of the Association of Microbiologists, Immunologists and Statistics. I hereby ask you to include this extraordinary item in the agenda for this meeting. This item is called the Discussion on the reliability of antibodies following the covid-19 infection and, please, the inclusion as a point of your previous speaker, Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u129	Thank you, i.e. that would be the fifth point of the hearing, because my colleague Šafránková has proposed this as the fourth point of the hearing. So that was Mr. Oldřich Černý. I still have Mr. Wenzl's application, he's not here. That means we've exhausted all the written applications. This is the Member's seat. The draft agenda of the meeting? With priority rights as Vice-President on behalf.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, since our club needs to be consulted before the approval of the agenda, I request a two-hour break for a meeting of the SPD's MP's club, within 19.29 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u131	By 7:30 p.m., two-hour recess request for a SPD meeting... she has been requested by the Vice-President on behalf of the President, so I am interrupting the meeting for two hours. Meet me at 7:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up and we will continue our negotiations. I'm gonna ask you to take your seats in your benches so you can keep your voice down so you can understand. I will repeat this: to make it clear what we are going to discuss and then vote on. I'll read the apology first. Today from 7:30 p.m. to 23:00 p.m. for work reasons, Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and Vice-President Vildumetzová Mračková cancels her apology from today's meeting. Before the break, we... Thank you, Mr. Radim Fiala's apologies have been cancelled. Since there have been a number of proposals to amend the agenda, which we will, of course, deal with in the order as they were read, but there has been one proposal, and this is Mr Vondráček's proposal to abolish the state of legislative emergency. So I propose the following procedure. First we will deal with this proposal, then we will go over the proposals from the Gremium. I would like to point out here that, as regards the proposals from the Gremia, they have made certain changes, and that is why I would vote - and I would propose to vote - on these proposals from the Gremia on points, and then we will go after the points as they were read on the agenda. Does anyone object to the settlement proposal? He doesn't. So I will proceed in the way I have spoken. Mr Vondráček has proposed a point of cancellation of the legislative emergency, but we have reached an opinion after the debate as well as within the framework of the Gremia, in the context of the opinion of the legislative department, that this proposal is unvoteable. I am aware that this proposal may be contradicted by the President's procedure, in any case we have agreed on a legal interpretation which we also base on the opinion of the legislative department that this proposal is unvoteable, and therefore we will continue with proposals from the Gremium. I wonder if anyone is raising a motion as an objection to the President's procedure? Madam President Schillerová, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u133	Yes, Mr Vice-President, I object to the President's procedure because I think it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u134	I thank you, it's completely legitimate. I've logged the application for your check-out. I'll check you all out first. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. I'm gonna go on and ask my colleagues from the lobby to come in, and we're voting that they've been raised... I will ask the club presidents to take part in the vote that we currently have in front of us. It is an important vote because we will vote on what the agenda will look like. President Schillerová raised an objection to the President's procedure. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this objection? Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 8, 173 Members and Members are registered, 174. For proposal 80, against 93. This proposal has been rejected, and we will therefore continue as I have announced. First of all, proposals from the Gremium. As the first point from the Gremium, which remains, which we will vote on, is that we will include in the News block, proposals and other House document 353, it is Proposal for rules on the management of parliamentary clubs for the year 2022. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 9, registered with 176 Members, for proposal 175, against 1. This proposal has been approved. As another point - and here I propose that we vote separately - we have the consent to issue a criminal prosecution. There are two suggestions. First, we will vote on the request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš, and then we will vote separately on the request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. There is a proposal for this to be discussed as the first and second points of this meeting, that is from Gremia, but I suggest that it be included only in the agenda of the meeting. I will therefore first put to the vote, and this is a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 10; 177 Members and Members are registered, for 161, against 4. The proposal has been approved. I will now vote on the inclusion of a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 11, with 177 Members registered, for proposal 170, against 2. This proposal has also been agreed with. [[19.40 hours]] There were two suggestions from Gremium. One - The draft timetable for the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget and the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic, but given the agreement that arose that on Friday there will be a separate meeting for which these two points will be unvoted, these points are, from my point of view, a different agreement arose, and that is why I am not voting on these points. I don't see a contradiction, I just need to clarify for myself whether elections will be part of this meeting? No, that means the election stays on the agenda for this meeting. Thank you, the meeting will be in order of eleven, will be convened on Friday 18. 2:00 in the morning. Then there is a proposal from the Gremia that paragraphs 7 and 11 of the proposal for a programme, which are House prints 56 and 72, be discussed after paragraph 20, House press 130. It's an electronization of the process of public authorities. I am therefore opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 12; 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 176, against 1. We agreed to this proposal. And now, colleagues, I have a rather difficult task to deal with with the other points that have been read with honor. I ask you to be patient, the negotiations have been long. I'll read it as the points have been recorded. If you feel, and it will be controlled by legislation, that your point has not come up, please warn me, I will put it to a vote. Points will be voted gradually. First of all, 16 points from President Tomio Okamura. It is a request for the inclusion of a new point The discussion of an unbearable situation with inadaptable cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic - the government refuses to address the situation. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against this point? It is a vote with order number 13; 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 26, against 73. This proposal was rejected, therefore we will no longer vote on its firm inclusion. Next, a new item discussion about the incompetent Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 14, registered 178 Members, for proposal 75, against 87. The motion was denied. Furthermore, the new point of the Fialův Government is refusing to address the price increase. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this item, its inclusion on the programme? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? In the vote with order number 15 178 Members and Members, for 81, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another point and a new point to include: the undemocratic practices of the Fialův Government. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against this point? It is a vote with order number 16, 179 Members and Members registered, for proposal 81, against 96. The motion was denied. Next, a new item on the discussion of the government's actions against decent people. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 17, with 178 Members registered, for proposal 20, against 85. The point has been rejected. Furthermore, there is a new point that the Government is increasing people's food. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 18, 179 Members are registered, for proposal 80, against 83. The motion was denied. Seventh point, new point on the title: the government has cheated the voters. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. For the sake of clarity, I am quoting the names of the points presented in the debate, and I am putting them to a vote. In the vote with order number 19, 179 Members and Members shall be voted in favour of proposal 77, against 96. The motion was not accepted. The Government also wants to influence the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council politically. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 20, 179 Members are registered, for 81, against 73. The motion was denied. Ninth point and its classification: Silence of political opponents. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 21; 179 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 22, against 91. The motion was denied. Another new point: Non-discriminatory funding of the STAN movement from Cyprus. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? In the vote with order number 22, 179 Members and Members shall be voted in favour of proposal 81, against 90. The motion was denied. There is also a new point of Cumulation of the chair of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? In the vote with order number 23 179 Members and Members, for 77, against 90, the proposal was rejected. Another point on the 12th, and it's a new point on the Turów Mine Agreement. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 24, 179 Members and Members registered, for proposal 81, against 81. The motion was denied. The thirteenth point, and this is to put point 32 on social services, namely to be included after these points. I just need to clarify here - that is, the first point in this meeting. Mr Okamura, the technical question, given that these points have not been accepted, do you want to include point 32 on social services after these points, the first point of this meeting? [[Yes.]] Thank you. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of putting this point first? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 25; 179 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 80, against 75, the proposal has not been adopted. [[19.50 hours]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 26, 179 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 78, against 85. The motion was not accepted. Next place item 44, House print 24, Minimum guaranteed pension. I take that as the first point of today's negotiations on the previous points. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. [[Mrs Schiller requests to be checked out.]] I'm sorry, I didn't register the check-out application. For this reason, I declare the vote misguided. [[Number 26]] I'll check you all out and ask you to re-registration with your cards. The number of Members and Members in the Chamber has settled, and I will therefore repeat the vote. We will be voting on item 44, House press 24, Minimum Guaranteed Pension, as the first item in this meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 28, registered 179 Members, for proposal 81, against 76. The motion was not accepted. The last point is to place point 31, House press 7, Constitutional Act on referendum, as the first point of our negotiations. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 29 shall be signed by 179 Members of Parliament, on proposal 22, against 93. No consent has been given to the proposal. Those are the points that President Tomio Okamura has scored. We will now proceed to the points raised by President Jan Jákob. [[Reservation against a mispronounced name.]] Jakob, right, Jan Jakob. His proposal is that the House press 127/2 be placed as the first item in this meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 30, 179 Members and Members have signed in, for proposal 96, against 73. The proposal has been approved. There's a reminder of the vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u135	I'm sorry. I voted in favour of the last vote, but I'm against drugs. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u136	Only for the log, thank you. Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u137	I also hate to say that I voted against, unfortunately it is in favour. So I'm questioning the vote. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u138	You're questioning the vote, okay. There is a challenge to the vote. I shall therefore first put to the vote that the vote has been called into question. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of accepting this objection? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 31, 179 Members and Members, for proposal 178, against no-one, are entered. Objection received. We will therefore now repeat the vote. I'm going to specify the point that we're going to vote on. We shall vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3, when the President of the Chamber of Deputies will present to the House at the next meeting to vote on the law that the Senate has returned to us. So it's press 172/2, the Emergency Measures Act for the COVID disease epidemic... and so on. [[Reservations that it's a different number of prints.]] 127/2. We will vote on the inclusion of this item and we will vote on its firm inclusion as the first item of the meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 32, 180 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 98, against 79. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. Here I need clarification from President Jakob, because another point of yours was that paragraph 20, press 130, be classified as points from the Gremium, specifically for the release of Bohuslav Svoboda. But we would not place this point firmly, which means either modify or we will not vote on this point. As a second point of action, okay. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of paragraph 20, House Press 130, being placed as the second item of the hearing? Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 33, 180 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 106, against 33. I am of the opinion that this proposal has also been approved. Before we proceed with the next vote, I am registering the request with the priority right of President Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to ask you if you could read not only the number of the press, but at least in two words, say what it is, because if we knew it was an electronization... But we have to find it in our materials before you vote, and sometimes it's for a second. So I'd like to ask you very much if you could make it easy for us to say, in at least two words, the name of the press, so we can have it easier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u140	Mr. Chairman, there's no problem with that. I'm sure I'll read what the points are. I'm just gonna ask you to bear with me for a moment, because I need to get hold of the agenda of the meeting approved by the Organizing Committee. For the next item, we will vote for Radim Fiala. It is paragraph 43, House press 23, income tax, and place it as the first point of this meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 34, 180 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 20, against 94. This proposal has not been agreed with. There is also Mr Jaroslav Bašta's proposal. It is a new point - the Government's position on tomorrow's start of the war between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 35, 180 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 20, against 97. The motion was denied. [[20.00 hours]] Next item is the vote on the proposal of Mr Jan Síla. It's a new point in the government's vaccination campaign against covid-19. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 36, 181 Members and Members, for 80, against 80, have signed up. The motion was not accepted. There is also a proposal from Mr Oldřich Černý, it is also a new point of the ban on masking the face in public. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? This new point? Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 37, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 20, against 77. No consent has been given to this point. In addition, there is a proposal from Jaroslav Foldyna on the inclusion of a new point, which is called Detailed Information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence on the passage of the United States military convoy. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 38, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 22, against 98. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, there is a proposal by Iveta Štefanová to place paragraph 28, by the House press 5, concerning the abolition of judicial executors, for the points proposed by my colleague, Mr Foldyna. But since that point has not been included, I suggest that it be adjusted to be placed on fixed points, if there is no problem with the proposal? Thank you. This means to include point 28 as already fixed points. I am opening the vote and I ask, who is this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 39, with 181 Members registered, for 19, against 110. This proposal has not been agreed with. The next proposal is from Mrs Berenika Peštová, to assign the House press 56 as the second item of the programme, to include after paragraph 20. This means that I propose the same procedure here, and that is to include the House press 56 after the already firmly placed points, if there is no problem. In that case, point 56 was included as the third and it was a germinal proposal that I had put to the vote. It's after the Houses of the Press 130. I'm sorry about the complications, but given how many points there were, I need to get my bearings. Thank you for your patience. If there is no contradiction with the way this point is classified, then I would continue with the next points. I don't see the contradiction, I don't see the objection, so let's continue. In addition, there is a proposal by Jana Pastuchová on the inclusion of a new point Information on draw... [[There are voices from the diaper.]] But the point has been placed, it's got a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit I'll just be patient for a second. We'll check it out. [[Short silence.]] Yes, for the record, that point was really glamorous, we voted on it, I'll just read it. Thus, paragraphs 7 and 11, which are House prints 56 and 72, discuss after paragraph 20, draft programme, House press 130, which means that this proposal has been voted and passed. I read it from Gremia. Thank you for the clarification. And now, then, the Virgin's item should be voted... by Mrs Jana Pastuchová. [[Fun in the hall.]] After two days without sleep, I'm sorry. But I firmly believe that we can do this together. [[Laugh, cheer and applause in the hall.]] So, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, a new item Information on the drawing of housing contributions. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 40, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 80, against 72. This proposal has not been agreed with. Now, I'm going to proceed to those applications that were filed on paper, and I'm going to do them in the order that they came in. Next, the vote on the item presented by Mrs Karla Maříková is a new item on the debate on the unlimited competence of the Minister of Health, which will be allowed by the pandemic law. It's a new point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting order number 41, 181 Members and Members of Parliament, for 21, versus 78. No consent has been given to the proposal. There is also Mr Richard Brabec's proposal, a proposal for a programme... [[Mrs. Schiller is objecting to something outside the microphone.]] Yes, in that case, we are going back to Mrs Karla Maříková and to include a new item in the discussion on the legal difficulties of the pandemic law and the principle of resolving epidemic situations under the conditions of the modern democratic rule of law based on experience with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. Before I vote on this point, Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u141	It doesn't happen to me, either, but I voted no, and I've got a pro on high. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u142	Okay, thank you, for the tape. We are now returning to the second point of Mrs Karla Maříková, as I have read it. I hope I don't have to repeat it. I'll put it to a vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 42, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 20, against 93. The motion was denied. [[20.10 hours]] Now a new point from Mr Richard Brabec The failure of the Czech Government to conclude a contract for mining at the Turów mine. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 43; 181 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 78, against 92. This proposal has not been agreed with. The next is the proposal by Mr Radek Koten. It's point 35, House press 12, it's criminal code. And he wants to place it after all the previous fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 44, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 20, against 99. The motion was denied. Mr Radek Koten's second proposal is to amend the Copyright Law, paragraph 38, House Press 15, to include it after all the points already firmly included. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 45, with 180 Members registered, for proposal 22 against 97. The motion was not accepted. There is a third proposal by Mr Koten, and that is a new point, the inclusion of a new point Helping people in need on the basis of the increase in energy following the model of Poland and Hungary. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 46, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 75, against 85. The motion was not accepted. The next item is Mr David Pražák's proposal, and this is the inclusion of a new point in the Czech Government's failure to conclude a mining contract at the Turów mine as the first point in Friday's negotiations. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 47, registered 181 Members and Members, for proposal 82, against 92. The motion was not accepted. Next is Mr Radovan Vích's proposal, and this is the House press 22, paragraph 42, the amendment of the Income Tax Act for fixed points. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 48; 181 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 20, against 78. This proposal was rejected. The next proposal is from Mr Oldřich Černý to the agenda, and it is the Income Tax Act, House Press 52, for the already fixed points. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 49, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 19, against 79. The motion was denied. The next is the proposal by Mr Radek Rozvoral. It is item number 20, House press 7, Constitution of the Czech Republic. I have a request here that he be listed as point 20, okay. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 50, registered 181 Members and Members, for proposal 21, against 151. The motion was not accepted. The next is Mrs Marie Pošarová's proposal. It's a criminal code, House press 13, for fixed points. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 51; 181 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 19, against 85. The motion was denied. There is also Mr Vladimír Zlínský's proposal. It is the inclusion of a new point in the discussion on territorial defence of the state. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 52, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 20, against 87. The motion was denied. In addition, there is a proposal by Marek Benda to include a new point, so far without a solid inclusion, a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 53, with 181 Members registered, for 97, against 54. The proposal has been approved. Next, there is the proposal by Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, and that is the inclusion of press number 10, and that is to put it before all the proposed points. House press number 10 is the law of Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others on judicial bailiffs. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 54; 181 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 20, against 146. The motion was denied. The next proposal is from Mr Zdeněk Kettner. It is a new point of discussion on the issue of endangering freedom of thought and expression. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 55, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 21, against 76. This point was rejected. Next, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák's proposal is a new point of food self-sufficiency. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 56; 181 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 28, against 90. The motion was denied. Another is the proposal by Mr Jan Hrnčíř, it is the House Press 4 to be classified as a fixed item. The House Press 4 is a proposal by Members of Jan Hrnčíř, Tomio Okamura and others on income taxes. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of putting this point behind the already firmly placed points? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 57, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 20, against 95. No consent has been given to the proposal. [[20.20 hours]] Another is Mr Karel Sládeček's proposal. It is paragraph 45, House Press 25, it is the proposal of Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others on salaries and other requirements. For the already firmly ranked points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 58; 181 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 19, against 97. No consent has been given to the proposal. Another is Mrs Eva Fialová's proposal, and it is a new point on how to continue with 15 measures to combat poverty traders. It's like the third point of this meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 59; 181 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 79, against 90. No consent has been given to the proposal. It is also Mrs Zuzana Ožanová's proposal, and this is the pre-selection of press 76, paragraph 14, and this is a firm inclusion on Friday 18. 2. Not specified. 9:00 in the morning, thank you. [[It's gonna be a different meeting.]] In that case, I want to ask if you want to make an alternative proposal, because there will be another meeting on Friday. [[The Member shall respond from the point of view.]] After the already firmly placed points, thank you. So this point after the already fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 60, 181 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 82, against 95. No consent has been given to the proposal. There is a proposal by Mr Miroslav Janulík for a new point Information of the Minister of Health on the state of the Coronavirus epidemic in the Czech Republic. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 61, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 80, against 92. The motion was denied. There is also Mr Milan Brázdil's proposal and it is a new point of the Czech Health Rescue Service. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 62, registered with 181 Members, for 78, against 71. The motion was denied. There is also Mr František Petrtýl's proposal, and it is a new item on the budgetary determination of taxes, to place it firmly after the point of the Medical Rescue Service. As a previous proposal, this point has not been included. I therefore propose to put to the vote following the already firmly placed points, if there is no contradiction. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 63, 181 Members and Members, for 81, against 96. The motion was denied. Then there is Mr Kamal Farhan's proposal, but unfortunately... There's no point in the application, and I don't have a proposal for this point. Well, I'd like to ask, Mr. Ambassador, if you'd like to clarify. [[Consultation with the organizational department.]] I will try to quote whether we will be in line: Reducing funds to health care stations and Czech health care. Are we in agreement, Mr. Ambassador? Thank you. It's a new point, a new point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's up for a new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 64, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 81, against 91. The motion was denied. There is also Mr Kubíček's proposal, and it is a new point with the indication of the increase in heat prices. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 65, with 181 Members registered, for 82, against 73. The motion was denied. The next item is Mr Martin Kolovratník's proposal, and he wants to include Parliament's press 76, paragraph 14, which is the Government's bill amending the road law and so on as a second item in the negotiations. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 66, with 181 Members registered, for 81, against 75. No consent has been given to the proposal. And there is another proposal from Mr Martin Kolovratník, and that is to the House press 58, paragraph 9, the Government bill amending the law on road transport and so on, there is a proposal for his firm inclusion on Thursday as the first item in the hearing. But there is an extraordinary meeting on Thursday, so, Mr. Ambassador, do I propose, alternatively, that there be an agreement with the proposal? Okay. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 67, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 81, against 92. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, Mr Lubomír Brož's proposal is here to put the press number 122, paragraph 39... House printing 122, paragraph 99. I amend: proposal point 100, House press 122, before paragraph 99. Point 100 is the Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television in 2018. Thank you for the clarification. [[To the director of the organizational department.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 68, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 66, against 88. No consent has been given to the proposal. [[20.30 hours]] There is also a proposal from Mrs Klára Dostálová, and that is that point 51, press 41, should be firmly placed on Friday at 13:00. Here, too, is the matter of another meeting on Friday, so do I propose, alternatively, to include this point after the already fixed points, if there is no problem? Thank you. Point 51, draft of the Prague City Council. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 69, 179 Members are registered, in favour of proposal 82, against 69. The motion was denied. Thank you. Mr Brož still had two other proposals, I apologise, we will vote on both of them, and that is that paragraph 102, House Press 124, be put before paragraph 101. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 70, 181 Members and Members signed in, for proposal 82, against 79. The motion was denied. And the second proposal that paragraph 104, House Press 126, be put before paragraph 103. Item 104, Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television for 2020. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 71, 181 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 82, against 79. Nor has this proposal been agreed. Mr Josef Kott's proposal is now here, and that is to point 12, House press 73, it is a draft law on pharmaceuticals to be included as a second point for today, that is to say, that it should be placed firmly as the second point of the meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 72, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 82, against 96. No consent has been given to the proposal. There is also Mr Robert Králíček's proposal, two proposals, and that is that paragraph 20, House Press 130, should be the first item in today's negotiations. It's point 20, a government bill that changes laws in connection with further electronization. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 73, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 80, against 90. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, there is a proposal that paragraph 21, press 131, should be the second point of today's negotiations. Point 21 is the Government Bill on Cyber Security. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 74, with 181 Members registered, for 61, against 107. The motion was not accepted. There are proposals, three proposals from Mr Patrik Nacher. The first is to place a new point in Political Culture as the first point in the negotiations. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 75, with 181 Members registered, for 81, against 89. The motion was denied. The second item is to be included as a new item in the Breach of the Rules of Procedure as a second item in the proceedings. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 76, 181 Members and Members signed in, 82, versus 91. The motion was not accepted. And another one, the last one from Mr Nacher, to place paragraph 51, House press 41, as the third item in the hearing. Point 51 is again the proposal of the Prague City Council. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 77. 180 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 80, against 66. No consent has been given to the proposal. [[Noise in the hall, voices from the diaper.]] I'm gonna ask you, co-workers, co-workers, to keep you quiet so I don't have to scream at you. Thank you. Another is Mr Karel Rais's proposal, and it is the inclusion of a new item Financing the Department of Education, that is the name of the item. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 78 is signed by 181 Members, for proposal 82, against 89. The motion was not accepted. I now have here the first proposal of Mr Radek Vondráček, and that is the abolition of the state of legislative emergency, which we have dealt with. Furthermore, there is his proposal for a law on lobbying, and that is House Press Nos 1 and 2, which is the Act on lobbying and related, to include it as the first point on Tuesday, which cannot be done, and then firmly at 16 o'clock on Tuesday, which is also not possible, as the first and second point on the afternoon meeting on 2 March. [[The President shall be consulted.]] I merely specify, it is the first and second points, the afternoon meeting on 2 March, the second week of the meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 79, 181 Members and Members, 63, against 95, have signed up. No consent has been given to the proposal. And then there's an alternative to putting these two points on March 2nd at 5:00 p.m. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 80, 182 Members and Members registered, for proposal 62, against 90. This proposal has not been agreed with. [[20.40 hours]] There is also Mrs Věra Adámková's proposal. She wants to include a new point Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the methodology of compliance with the hygiene control of the working environment in primary and secondary schools. First, we will vote on the inclusion of this point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 81, 182 Members of Parliament have signed up, in favour of proposal 63, against 75, the proposal has not been approved. There is also a new item by Mrs Lucie Šafránková Help for tradesmen and Czech companies affected by the effects of government measures and insufficient compensation by the government of Petr Fiala. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Who's against it? Voting with order number 82, 182 Members of Parliament, for 80, against 83, have not been agreed with the proposal. For this reason, we cannot vote on solid inclusion. Next, Mr Oldřich Černý's proposal as a new item is the discussion on the reliability of antibodies following a covid-19 infection. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Who's against it? Voting with order number 83, 182 Members of Parliament, for 24, against 83, the proposal has been rejected. And here I have Mr Lubomír Wenzl's application, but I do not have a draft point recorded. Nor, it is very likely that the Member did not speak to his point. There's no contradiction, okay. According to the comments I had at my disposal, I think we voted on all the proposals tabled. Does anyone object to this statement? It doesn't. This has dealt with all the proposals for adjusting the meeting. And now we will vote on the whole proposal for a 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing, in the text of the proposals adopted. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 84, 182 Members of Parliament, for 100, against 78. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. We have approved the agenda of the meeting and I am handing over the proceedings of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-001-999.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] According to the approved agenda, we're starting with a point.
