ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 9 o'clock, and I am opening the fourth meeting on the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. To record our participation, I'm going to sign you off first and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I hereby declare that these Members have asked to apologise for their absence from the hearing, for reasons of work, for reasons of work, for Urbanová of work, for reasons of work for Romana Bělohlávková, Josef Bernard for reasons of work, Jaroslav Bžoch for Špičák of work abroad, Eva Decroix for reasons of work, Klára Dostálová for Crkvenjaš of employment, Lenka Dražilová for Zuzana of health, Martin Exner for reasons of work, Kamal Farhan for Nováková of health, Milan Feranec for Wenzl of health, Jaroslav Foldyna for reasons of work, Pavla Golasowská for reasons of health, Strýček Hájek for Vondrák of work, Jana Hanzlíková for Pastuchová of health, Tomáš Helebrant for reasons of work for Nina of health, Aleš Juchelka for Lochman of international travel, David Potůčková for Štolpa of family reasons, Pavel Kašník for reasons, Ondřej Kolář for reasons of work, for Ratiborský of work, for Michal of work, Václav Král, from the Michaela of Šebelová of 12 hours of work of work of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic, for reasons of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for Ožanová of the Czech Republic for Tureček of work for reasons of the Czech Republic for Barbora of the Czech Republic for Babiš of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic Now I've been informed that Klára Dostálová is canceling her apology from today. From members of the government today apologize: Prime Minister Petr Fiala due to foreign travel, Minister Mikuláš Bek for work reasons, Pavel Blažek for work reasons, Petr Gazdík for work reasons, Anna Hubáčková for work reasons, Helena Langšádlová for work reasons, Jan Lipavskýý until 11.30 for work reasons, Nekula Zdeněk for work reasons, Vít Rakušan for foreign travel reasons and Vlastimil Válek for work reasons. Today's meeting should start with the fixed points, first point 108, it is House document 646 - a timetable for the discussion of the draft State Final Account for 2021, and point 4, it is House press 137 - building law, second reading. Then we should continue by discussing points from the Law block - first reading according to the proposed order, i.e. points 21, 12, 14, 7, 8 and 9. I declare that item 78 of the approved programme, which is the Chamber's printing of 176 on excise duties at third reading, can be discussed. No amendments or other proposals have been tabled. I therefore ask you now who would like to speak on the agenda of the already approved agenda of the 19th meeting, and I am registering Marek Benda's written application for the agenda of the meeting. Marek Benda cancels his application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] And my colleagues, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down, and I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down, so I can understand what the proposals for the agenda are going to be. I will ask my colleagues in the right side of the hall to transfer any discussion to the galleys. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to load and place point 110 firmly - the refugee wave management strategy at 10. 5. 2022 at 18 o'clock. It's the point that we're talking about here... for a solid 10th grade. 5. It is the point that was discussed here yesterday and the day before yesterday, so this is the position when this point should be discussed and when there should be a sufficient number of ministers, as was said by Minister Vít Rakušan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-000-000.u3	Thank you, 10. 5:00 p.m. I'm asking if anyone else is applying to the agenda? Mr Patrik Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-000-000.u4	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would take the liberty of trying again, perhaps one day I will break through successfully - perhaps I will promise to let you in my corner in the restaurant - when you place me and us, but above all consumers, House Press 48, it is a change in the Civil Procedure Code. Again, in the beginning, to draw your attention, I will remind you that this parliamentary proposal has the consent of the current government, and in a simple way it is to strengthen the position of the consumer who had previously turned to an out-of-court body, like today we have a financial arbiter, an Energy Regulatory Office, a CTU and so on, and after that institution has lost it, he will then find himself in front of a regular court, where the entire dispute begins again. So far it is so that the court could, but he did not have to invite the specialized body, such as the financial arbiter, ČTÚ and ERO. We here in this very brief proposal - and I have also talked about it with my colleague Karel Haas, who nods that he does - we have put only a tiny thing in there, a slight change that the court will address the out-of-court authority to comment on it. And I'm going to say one argument against a possible complaint for those people who don't know it. The financial arbiter and similar organs, the others, are by their very nature independent, neutral, and they should perform like this. They're not gonna defend the consumer, they're gonna defend their decision, and that seems fair to me. I would ask and ask that we place it right after the first fixed point, that's after the schedule, before the construction site, and I promise it won't take more than 15 minutes to release it to the second reading, because there's nothing to deal with. And I hope that the coalition experts - and I'm looking at Karel Haas again - will confirm that. It's only one paragraph, and it can really help. [[9.10 hours]] So I'm gonna ask you to fill in. It'll take 15 minutes to do something for the consumer. My financial arbiter didn't work out here, but I'm gonna ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-000-000.u5	Thank you for putting it firmly as the second point of today's negotiations. Yes, I made a note. I'm asking if anyone else is still applying for the agenda. I don't see an application, so we'll take the vote. I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby and vote on the proposals tabled. First of all, we will vote on paragraph 110, which was delivered by the President of STAN, Mr Cogan. Name of the point - management of the refugee wave - on 10. 5:00 p.m. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion... I'm sorry. I'll check you out first. I have noted the application for withdrawal, so I declare this vote (number 59) confusing. I'll sign you off and ask you to sign up with your cards. I suppose I don't have to repeat the motion for a vote. We know what we're voting on. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 60, 141 Members and Members registered, for proposal 138, against no one. I'm saying that we've put this point firmly on 10. 5:00 p.m. Furthermore, I have here Mr Patrik Nacher's proposal that the House Press 48, the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, should be firmly placed as a second item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 61; 144 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 63, against 16. This proposal was rejected. This has dealt with all the proposals for the agenda that has been made today. So I open the first point of today's negotiations, and that is
