ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 45th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our involvement, I've checked you out now. I would like you to re-apply with the identification cards, or tell me who is asking for a replacement card, as Mr Bžoch has already done, who will vote with card number 31. I agree that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the hearing: Adámková Věra for the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Babiš Andrej for the whole working day, Benešík Ondřej for the whole day of the hearing due to foreign travel, Fialová Eva for the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Šimon Šimon for the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Hendrych Igor - the whole day of the hearing for family reasons, Hrnčíř Jan until 17 hours for health reasons, Kasal David for the whole day of the hearing for working reasons, Klíma Pavel until 16 hours for working reasons, Kohajda Michael for the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Kubík Jan for the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Pastuchová Jana for the whole day for health reasons, pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava for the whole day for working reasons and Wenzl Milan for health reasons. From the members of the government apologize: Balaš Vladimír - the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Baxa Martin from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day of the meeting also due to foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Šalomoun Michal from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons. An apology has yet to come from Mr Janulík Miloslav within 16 hours for work reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, the 45th sitting, which is now open, will follow at 14.15 a.m. 47th meeting. And, of course, I've already signed up for the agenda with priority rights, but since in two, three minutes, I should be able to interrupt this meeting, we'll only be able to make about one of the applications. He is Mr. President of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný, which is logged in. I don't think he's paying any attention to me right now, but he's here in this meeting with priority rights first. President Okamura is following, but if the time isn't enough, we'll leave it to then, but I guess we'll leave it to the '40s, which you're also... yeah, I see it that way, you don't have enough time. Just to make sure everyone knows how we're going to proceed in the following minutes: 45th meeting will be suspended because it's called at 14.15 hours 47th meeting, and I don't think it's worth starting with those logged in, so I'm interrupting this meeting right now, specifically until the end of the 47th meeting, i.e. the 45th meeting, we'll be back 10 minutes after the end of the 47th meeting. If it was too late today, we wouldn't start until tomorrow. This is according to the agreement that will take place in the course of today's negotiations. I am now interrupting the 45th meeting, and at 14.15 o'clock, we will all be ready for the 47th meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members and members of the Government, I am opening a suspended 45th session of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I'm going to sign you off first - so I checked everyone out. I'm going to ask you all to sign up again with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. I'm just going to point out that we've already had our spare cards loaded, so I'm just pointing out this. Similarly, apologies have already been loaded, which are also valid from the reading on today's day. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has requested that the following House press, which has been approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 110/2006 Coll., on Life and existential Minimum, as amended. It's the House press 342. By decision number 47, the President of the House decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing, ordering the House press 342 to the Social Policy Committee to discuss it and setting an unbreakable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 1 December 2022 by 9 o'clock. Now, before we proceed to discuss the agenda, I would like to agree with President Tomie Okamura, who I have here with priority rights to change the agenda. But what is it: do you agree, Mr President, that I will first read the Grémium match? [[Yes.]] Well, then, of course, you'll have the floor first. So thank you. And now, then, information on the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. First of all, we propose to include four new points in the approved 45th session, namely the House press 342, the amendment to the Act on State Social Support - it is therefore in the shortened negotiations, which was presented in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency; The House's press 336, the draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2023 and the medium-term outlook for 2024 and 2025; the House's press 337, agricultural subsidy programmes for 2023 provided under Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture. We also propose to include an electoral point - a proposal for changes in the composition of the House of Deputies. Then we propose the following procedure this week: Today, on Tuesday, 29 November, we propose to discuss paragraph 25, which is the House press of the 309, amendment to the Law on Military Police. Further points from the block law second reading in the order that will apply throughout the week. It is paragraph 7, House press 163, amendment to the Law on Landscape Surveying; paragraph 8, House press 218, draft law on cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office; paragraph 9, House press 219, draft law on cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office, related; paragraph 4, House press 75, amendment to the Act on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer; paragraph 11, House press 285, draft law on measures against the spread of terrorist content online; paragraph 13, House press 312, amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties; paragraph 5, House press 106, amendment to the Act on Information Society Services; paragraph 6, House press 107, draft Act on Product Market Supervision. Next, Wednesday, 30 November, we propose to discuss the following points: paragraph 102, House printing 315, Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2023; point 103, House printing 316, medium-term forecast of the state budget; point 104, House printing 317, draft budget of the SFPI; point 105, House printing 318, draft budget of the SFŽP; point 106, House printing 325, budget of the SFDI. In addition, two new points: House printing 336, draft budget SZIF; House printing 337, grant programmes for agriculture. At 13:00 p.m. tomorrow, Wednesday, 30 November, we propose a firm inclusion of a new electoral item - a proposal for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. On Thursday, 1 December, we propose, after the completion of the written interventions, which is paragraph 167, and at the latest, of course, at 11 o'clock, to place a firmly new point, which is the House press 342, already mentioned amendment to the Act on State Social Support. On Thursday afternoon, we will discuss paragraph 168, which is oral questioning, and in case of non-negotiation of the House's 342 press, we will also deal with it after the discussion of paragraph 168, oral questioning, or at 18 o'clock, or we would continue to discuss points from the so-called opposition window if such points are designed. [[18.10 hours]] And on Friday, December 2, we propose to discuss points 107, House press 327, draft budget of the State Cinematography Fund, then point 170, House press 333, amendment of the Act on Electronic Acts and Authorized Document Conversion, and final point 122, House press 270, amendment of the Act on Sport Support. We would then focus on unnegotiated items from the second reading block, in the order that I have already read, proposed from the Gremium, or we would discuss other items according to the approved agenda. And the information at the end. On 25 November, paragraph 109 of the Chamber of Deputies was discussed at the 46th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so please do not apply to this, there is no need to vote on this, which will not be part of the approved agenda. This would be everything on my part. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. And now it is time for Members and Members to present their speeches to amend the approved 45th session, and I would now like to call on President Tomio Okamura, who is signed up with priority rights, to comment on the amendment of the agenda. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, as the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting, I would like to propose a point entitled Inability of the Purple Government directly endangers the functioning of many Czech households and companies and the livelihood of thousands of their employees. So I would repeat this once again so that you can note: The inability of the Fialův Government directly threatens the functioning of many Czech households and companies and the livelihood of thousands of their employees. And now I would like to justify this proposal for a point for the SPD movement. Fialův's five-wheeler hasn't solved expensive energy, and it doesn't want to help our citizens and companies effectively. Prime Minister Petr Fiala just failed. There are now other crazy advances coming to citizens, and a number of citizens, really others and other citizens, do not even have the basic needs of life anymore. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is still not helping our citizens and companies to cope with the current energy crisis. The Ministers for Energy of the Member States of the European Union once again disagreed at the meeting last week in Brussels on no common effective and functional solution to high energy commodity prices. The Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela of the STAN movement, has again failed completely in negotiations in the EU institutions on energy prices. The consensus was only that they would reunite on December 13th. So the Minister of Síkela for the STAN movement has not been able to enforce a common energy price ceiling in the EU for large industrial companies, with most EU Member States helping their domestic energy industry with energy prices and guaranteeing their price availability. The failure of the government of Petr Fiala to defend the interests of the Czech Republic thus threatens the operation of many Czech companies and the livelihood of thousands of their employees and, of course, millions of our citizens of the Czech Republic who have problems with expensive prices not only of energy but also of food. According to a survey by the Chamber of Commerce, the situation in companies is really becoming critical. Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS is responsible for this situation, who has not been able to remove Minister Síkela from STAN, who is also unable to address the situation long ago, and who himself has also failed to address the incompetent energy crisis. As Newstream's professional economic server states, unwarranted astronomical high energy prices literally dictate to the Czech government their manufacturers and suppliers, and the government is merely idly taking this into account. This is also the long-term view of the SPD when we have repeatedly proposed to put electricity prices directly on the market for their producers and subsequently throughout the supply chain at the level of production costs, including distribution costs and reasonable profit, which would also eliminate the need for billions of energy suppliers to compensate for the state budget. The Fialův Government has resigned to help our citizens and businesses and does not defend their interests, but defends the interests of speculators. Companies are failing, and more and more citizens are getting into existential problems with far-reaching negative economic impacts on society. For these reasons, we will continue to strive for the current government to resign. The SPD also rejects the government's intention to proceed with plans to increase taxes on income and real estate, which are promoted by, for example, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka. On the contrary, we in the SPD are promoting tax reductions for families with children. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL declared in an interview for News.cz , that the Czech Republic must return to raising taxes, specifically talking about personal income tax and real estate tax. The SPD movement completely rejects these crazy ideas. Tax increases are unacceptable to the SPD. On the contrary, in the current social and economic crisis, citizens must be left with as much money as possible from their labour income. Thanks to the SPD's votes, the concept of the so-called supergross wage has been abolished in the last parliamentary term, which has increased the net incomes of our employees and businessmen, and I am proud that the removal of the supergross wage has also succeeded thanks to the SPD's votes. We had it on the political agenda, and it turned out to be a prudent step, with more money left in our pockets for working citizens, and we didn't even know that this incompetent government would come, which, on the contrary, is pulling money out of our pockets. We have also enforced the abolition of the real estate transfer tax. During this parliamentary term, we have already tabled draft laws to increase the income tax deduction for all working citizens and to increase tax advantages on careless children in working families. To consider further tax increases to citizens at a time when, according to a study by the renowned financial company Cyrrus, real wages in the Czech Republic will fall in the next year, the most significant of all V4 countries is totally unacceptable to the SPD. Moreover, current government parties are violating the pre-election promise that they will not increase taxes. The SPD is refusing to address the appallingly growing government deficit by increasing the tax burden on the population of the Czech Republic, as planned by the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS, while the profits of speculators remain intact. [[18.20 hours]] The way of increasing the revenue of the state budget is, for example, the taxation of multinational companies operating in our country, which annually spend about CZK 300 billion a year in the form of tax-free dividends. By the way, as we already know from official data, for this year alone, the distribution of dividends from the Czech Republic is absolutely record-breaking and in about the first half of the year it is already almost 300 billion crowns in itself. On the expenditure page, it is then a significant reduction in the state's expenditure, for example by reducing bureaucracy, reducing payments to solar barons, or canceling the purchase of overpriced military equipment from abroad. Here I am also setting the mandatory example - we think it is better in this economic situation of the Czech Republic to modernize gripens than to buy the most expensive U.S. fighters. I'm sure we're in favour of modernizing the army, in any case, but in a different way. Of course, we have to have the money, that's just important. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, the government is doing absolutely incredible things here. You set up a new state office here last week for a billion crowns with over 200 employees so that pirát and other government officials, representatives of government parties, could have different political newsrooms. Furthermore, of course, we have also witnessed this today, when you have voted here, you have recently voted that there will be a cancellation of the representatives of the ministries and instead of your ministers being able to appoint an unlimited number of political representatives, so additional hundreds of millions are being sucked out of the state budget for nothing. Of course, these are the things where you go in the exact opposite direction, instead of reducing bureaucracy and reducing unnecessary expenses, so you approach the exact opposite. And we cannot agree with that, because the SPD simply says that it is now necessary to help mainly Czech citizens and Czech companies, who are often in a desperate situation, and there is a need to redirect the support, and above all, systemic support, so that citizens can have decent lives. We simply want people to have normal lives, and we do not want people to live in poverty as unfortunately, this is happening during the reign of Petr Fiala's five-calice. That's really not what we want. Of course, we reject this hand in hand, the SPD refuses, the unprecedented debt of the Czech Republic by the government of Petr Fiala. We, as I have already said, are proposing to redirect the necessary expenditures to our needy citizens and companies - and we will get to that tomorrow - but the budget deficit for next year, 295 billion and for this year almost 400 billion, it is really absolutely incredible how you guys are indebting the Czech Republic, and the media are essentially covering it up to a large extent, because that is the way to hell. That should be a loud name, and that's why I'm talking about it here. Of course, speaking of spending, we in the SPD believe that it is really necessary for the Czech Republic, the Czech citizen to come first, because now a number of citizens are in need, and as the vote took place here just a moment ago, we simply refuse to have the soldiers of Ukraine trained in our territory for our money. The billion crowns that Petr Fiala's government wants to spend on this, we disagree. We in principle - SPD does not agree with the residence of any foreign troops, we do not want any foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. No foreign troops. I overheard the reaction here in 1968, but here I would like to remind you that it is the candidate of the government's five-calice, or the coalition of the SPOLU, it is the candidate of the ODS coalition, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL Petr Pavel. When I saw - I was terrified when I saw his interview with Veronika Sedláčková, which everyone can play on the Internet right now. Your candidate Petr Pavel was unable to condemn the invasion of Soviet troops in 1968. That's unbelievable, that's some crap. And right now, based on these experiences, we do not want any foreign troops, either from the east or from the west, in the territory of the Czech Republic. But the fact that the candidate of the government's five-calice, or three-calice, because he is a candidate of the SPOLU, publicly applied to him, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, on the repeated query of the moderator Veronika Sedláčková cannot condemn the invasion in 1968, that is really incredible, what a candidate you have. Well, of course, your candidate, when he directly cooperated with the previous regime, our candidate Jaroslav Bašta sat in prison at the time of normalization because the communists had him locked up for two and a half years, so that's the contrast. And then our Jaroslav Bašta went at a time when your candidate was an exponent, a high exponent of the standardisation regime, even a party leader, our candidate Jaroslav Bašta went to sign as one of the first, even in December 1976, Charter 77. That means these are the paradoxes, so when I heard it here, some of the ODS politicians' statements, I kind of didn't believe my ears. So, I believe I know you, but I don't understand why... Then, as we know, Petr Pavel apologized under public pressure, apologizing for his CV that he was writing. Well, that's really a candidate, that's really great. In these fundamental matters, when it is necessary to say: I condemn the invasion of foreign troops here in the 68th - so he hesitates first, then he laments, then he must have consulted God knows who, and then after a long time he apologizes. Well, that's a really incredible thing. So I don't understand why some ODS Members here - I don't want to name it, I don't want to point it out, we all know who said it here, I want to move on to the next topic that we're dealing with here - but I don't understand what we're talking about here when your candidate himself has butter on his head from all of us, mostly from this point of view. When I heard that, the interview, and it's a video -- normally it's obvious, you can all now look at the Internet -- so I really didn't have enough to stare at who you support. So back to the subject, I've made a little bit of a big deal out of our point design. The situation is really extremely serious, now more and more advances are coming to citizens, more and more citizens in January will be coming in further increased advances, citizens are really desperate, citizens are increasing. I think it is necessary to open this debate immediately, of course the SPD movement, in order to help really people and businesses and their employees, we are trying to open it all this year. It's almost December, the government is always waiting for something. You don't help citizens, you send them to welfare, decent working people, that's a disgraceful attitude, of course. I think that this point really needs to be included. I would like to place him - I repeat - as the first item in today's meeting. If it doesn't work today, he'd like to put him first on tomorrow's agenda, so it's the second draft. I am just pointing out, of course, if you do not agree - we have already said so publicly - we will try to collect signatures in the first phase for an emergency meeting on this subject, so that these topics can be discussed, because we cannot, of course, look at government inaction in the long run, but of course, now the situation is getting worse and worse. And, of course, I think it is quite appropriate, if the government coalition does not agree to the agenda for the possible emergency meeting, if the SPD manages to convene it - because, of course, we need colleagues from the ANO movement, because we only have 20 Members, we need more of them, we need 40 - so, of course, the next stage is, and I think it is quite appropriate that next year, right after the New Year, if possible, the vote on distrust of the government should be called on. From my point of view, this is ideal before the presidential elections, because on the one hand, there are candidates like Petr Pavel, Danuše Neru... - Danuše Nerudová, I'm sorry, because I heard that name about a month ago, two for the first time in my life ever, so sometimes it's still wrong - but then there's Mr. Fischer, they're the candidates for your coalition, so it's got to be pretty clear who's trying to make it clear to the citizens, this thing, yes, because they're like... yeah, you're supporting them, and it's like a cat dog everything. So I think it really is appropriate to put maximum political pressure on Petr Fiala's government, because the situation for both citizens and businesses and their employees is becoming completely unbearable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u4	Thank you. So there was one draft of a new point. If the new point is placed, we will vote for a firm classification. I'm just saying, I'm not exactly a stenographer, so let's see, I'll try to make the most of it. And now with priority rights, President Marek is first signed in Výborný and then Mr Aleš Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u5	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, colleagues, I have a request - to include two points, namely tomorrow, that is Wednesday, 30 November, when we will discuss the block of state budgets, so after paragraph 106, this is the House Press 325, the House Press Points 336 and 337 are newly included. Following this, the Houses of the Press 337, therefore grant programmes for agriculture, please include point 161, House document 353, draft rules for the management of parliamentary clubs for 2022. It is a debt to the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, which we should pay back so that, in 2022, we also approve the rules for this year in real terms. So please, after paragraph 106, excuse me, after discussing the House press 337, which is added to the program from Gremium. [[18.30 hours]] And the second vote and the second addition of the programme, please, on Friday 2 December, after the completion of the items from the second reading block, if the second reading, or possibly after the completion of the points from the third reading block, will include point 74, House press 165, Senate bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic. These are two changes that please vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u6	Thank you and Mr. Aleš Juchelka is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u7	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, too. I have here a draft of one point that I would like to justify at this point. I'm glad that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is here to see me, Marian Jurečka, because if we open it today and really just for a few minutes, then we can get some crucial result, especially for those involved. You may have noticed that all over the territory of the Czech Republic, especially in Prague, payouts of social benefits are delayed by the Office of Labour, and I would say this very much, up to a few weeks, even months. And it is not only delays in funding, but also delays in the deadlines for the processing of benefits and their subsequent approval, because the human resources that pay these benefits - and the problem is that they are still running low - so these human resources are getting less and less, and the new ones that the Labour Office accepts must, on the contrary, be trained by the workers, and that time is wasting away, delaying them, and the result is equally uncertain, because fluctuations within the Labour Office are very high. Unfortunately, the changes that are being mediated by the government coalition are really chaotic and cause chaos not only among people but also among the Labour Office officials themselves, and many people don't even want to have anything to do with the social system, because it either doesn't know it at the moment, or it simply discourages them from communicating. To late payments of funds: it has far-reaching consequences for the people themselves, for example, in the fact that when housing benefits were not paid, for example for several weeks, for livelihoods or mobility, they had to borrow somewhere. And, of course, I get a lot of e-mails to my e-mail box. I quote one of them, where my mother writes: "I am the mother of a severely disabled son, my care for him is 24/7, who receives a care allowance from which we pay Sip from the account rent, electricity and gas. This month has not yet come this dose and therefore SIPO could not leave the account. At the Labor Office, I have to regularly hand over statements from Sip's account, and if there's any income other than from the state, the Office will take away my housing allowance. Today, I will borrow from my grandfather to pay off SIPO's account, deposit the money into my account, and pray that the Labor Office understands that I had to deal with this situation by loan. The state can turn me into a non-payer, and that's pretty cruel." So how is this going to be dealt with here? That's my first question. Will the Bureau be working because he's late on his paycheck, making people pay off? And how will they take into account, for example, when a loan from their family landed on their account, or God forbid from any loan sharks? How are they going to explain that to the Labor Office, to the officials, and how will the Labour Office react? Is there any way to shorten their help because they may have a different income? This will be another pressure and administrative difficulty for all the employees of the Labor Office, who are at the edge of their options at the moment - clients who are mostly on the phone, shouting into the headphone, are becoming very aggressive in personal contact, vulgar, reporters are being threatened. We kept pointing out that the agenda that MPSV is running at the Labour Office is simply large and unsustainable in the long term. These problems are brought into the psychological problems of the employees who process these doses and, of course, it has a major impact on the treatment of additional doses, because one often builds on the other and is combined differently. He really can't imagine how a tiny drop can make a big flood of the problems that the Labour Office is facing at the moment, and especially clients who are facing big problems when they don't get their benefits on a regular basis. And we're not just talking about employment benefits, or unemployment benefits, but we're talking about mobility, a living allowance. We're talking about the housing allowance, the housing supplement, and all this will not be solved by a simple request for extra immediate assistance. For example, the benefits of material emergency are linked to other benefits, such as child allowance, parental allowance, housing allowance, which is linked, of course, to the housing supplement and so on and so on, because in this case, when these benefits are delayed and are not payable in the quarter month, in the following month clients will be paid double, and it has a far-reaching effect on benefits in material distress as such, when officials again have to issue new decisions or notifications, and in turn it is all extended. Just the strain not only on the officers, but also their leaders, is forceful. Therefore, I would like to open this point here, because I would like to know how many of these benefits paid here are in delay over 30 days, over 60 days, how many are unfinished.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u8	Please, time. Mr. Ambassador, it's limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u9	Yes. And that's why I'd like to put this point - and I'm about to finish - as the first point, either today, of course, and we really just need half an hour or the first point on Wednesday. Thank you very much. And the title of this item: delaying payment of benefits by the Labour Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u10	Thank you. I will also try to mediate as accurately as possible, delaying payment of benefits. And I'm gonna ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on the agenda? If that's not the case, I'm gonna go on, I'm gonna call in a colleague and a colleague... More? I'll ask President Radim Fiala. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u11	I'm sorry, I've been waiting for the others to end what they've been reading. I also have a request to you if we want to load on Thursday at 6 pm, which is the opposition window, and we would also like to work, so I would like to ask you for the support of House press number 9, it is point 40, and it is the Social Services Act, which is actually about increasing the contribution to care for the disabled. I'd like it to be the first point on Thursday at 6:00 p.m. And then here I have another point, it's the House Press 266, it's point 91, the State Social Support Act, and it deals with, or what we want to discuss is an increase in parental contribution. So, Madam President, these are the two points that we are proposing for this Thursday at 18 o'clock in the order that I have read them - points 1 and 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-045-04-000-000.u12	Thank you. I think everything's clear. I've called in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby before, and if there really is no more interested in changing the agenda - I don't see anyone anymore - then we can move on to the vote. I'll only read the apology before we approach it. Mr Jiří Kobza apologizes from 19 to 23.50 hours for reasons of work, Mrs Karla Maříková from 19 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Vojtěch Munzar from 18 o'clock for reasons of work, Vice-President Jan Skopeček from 18 o'clock for reasons of work and Mr Vladimír Zlínský from 19 o'clock for reasons of work. We've dealt with this. Now, first of all, if there are no objections, as a whole, we will vote in favour of the proposal tabled from Gremium. There's no objection. I have begun the vote on the proposal from the Gremium. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 52, 167 votes were cast, for 166, against 0. The motion was accepted. [[18.40 hours]] Second, President Tomio Okamura made his proposal, it was a proposal for a new point, so if it were to be included, we would then vote for a firm inclusion. The proposal for this point is - and it was a really long one, so I will ask for indulgence or - the inability of the Fialův Government directly threatens the functioning of many Czech households and companies and the livelihood of thousands of their employees. And I started the vote. Who's up for this new point? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 53, 167 Members voted in favour of 70, against 93. This proposal has not been adopted. As a third, the proposal for a fixed inclusion was made in paragraph 161, press 353 by President Marek Výborný and it is briefly about the rules of management. The proposal for a firm inclusion is on Wednesday 30. 11., actually after the newly added points from Gremium, respectively thousands 336 and 337, would come point 161. And I'm opening the vote on this solid assignment. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 54, 167 Members voted in favour of 111, against 0. This point has been adopted. Furthermore, President Marek Výborný proposed to include paragraph 74, House Press 16, the Alien Residence Act, on Friday after the completion of the second reading block, if this second reading, or after the third reading block has been negotiated. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Or who's against it? In the 55 vote, 167 votes were cast, for 94, against 67. This point has been included, it has been accepted. In addition, Mr Aleš Juchelka has proposed a new point, so again - if he is included, we will vote on proposals for a firm inclusion. A new item called Delaying Payment of Benefits at Labour Offices. I am opening the vote on this proposal for a new point. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In this vote, number 56, 167 Members voted in favour of 72, against 44. I note that this proposal has not been adopted. Finally, the last two proposals were made by President Radim Fiala. The first one is for the fixed classification of item number 40, House press 9. It is a social service law, and it is supposed to be on Thursday, the first point on Thursday at 18 o'clock, the so-called opposition window, and not before a legislative emergency is negotiated. This is merely a reminder, as it has already been said in the Gremial proposal. So it's clear to all of us what we're going to vote on. I have begun the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 57 vote, 168 Members voted in favour of 158, against 0. This proposal has been included. Finally, the last proposal put forward by President Fiala is the proposal for inclusion as the second point on Thursday in the opposition window, namely paragraph 91, by the House Press 266. It's the State Social Support Act. I think we all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 58 vote, 168 votes were cast, for it was 164, against 0. This proposal, too, was therefore adopted. I hereby state that we have dealt with all the voting proposals for changing the agenda and can therefore, according to the programme currently approved, proceed now to the first point of our negotiations. That's a point number.
