ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u1	26. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended and some other laws /house print 3/ - first reading We launched the debate on this point on 3 March at our 9th meeting, where the general debate was interrupted. I remind you that the Government's position has been delivered to you as House press number 3/1. I ask that Mrs Lucie Šafránková take the position at the rapporteur's table. I have information that there will be a change in the rapporteur. The rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, is probably not, and I have here information that there is an agreement on the new rapporteur, Mr Jiří Navrátil. However, we must agree to change the rapporteur by voting. So I'd like to ask if Mr. Jiří Navrátil is here? He's here, and he agrees to be the rapporteur in this press. I shall therefore begin the vote. I said, who's up for a proposal like that? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 65, 142 Members were enrolled, 117 voted in favour. We have accepted the motion. I note that the rapporteur for this press will be Mr Jiří Navrátil, who I will also ask to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. We will continue the interrupted general debate, but I do not register any application. [[This is Mrs. Purple reporting.]] Yes, from a place. Please, madam. [[Mr Okamura goes to the table.]] Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, I was the first to see the lady's hand raised. So please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u2	Thank you for the floor. I was enrolled in the debate last time, and I was supposed to be next when the point was interrupted, so that's why I raised my hand like this. I applied in a situation where there was a little bit of an emotional atmosphere, but I wouldn't like to follow up on it. However, my response, by application, to the debate was first of all a motion to reject the law, secondly a speech by Vice-President Olga Richterová, who said that it was not really happening from the last term, that she could lose long-term housing or the apartment of a person who would have mold at home. In the past period, we have witnessed the pirát blocking this law because they have given individual experiences or examples of different possibilities for people to lose their housing, and I personally do not like that we, like every citizen of us, pay for inadequate housing to people, some of whom do not have windows, have the right heating and so on, and there is no greater control at the moment. It is certainly not about people losing accommodation because of molds or evicting people with mental problems. I would therefore like to ask if I read here directly from the amendment or from the draft law of the paragraph which is proposed, what quality of housing is to be achieved, or an apartment that is suitable for housing, according to which they concluded that it was mold or unsuitable premises: "A flat suitable for housing must meet the basic standards for housing, which are: the apartment is closed and lockable, is fitted with functional doors and windows; the apartment has at least one living room that meets the requirements of the construction law; the apartment has a toilet and a bathroom that are operational; the apartment has a dedicated space for cooking and preparing food; the apartment is connected to the source of drinking water or has unlimited direct access to drinking water; the apartment is provided with sufficient ventilation of the living rooms by outdoor air and heating in accordance with standard values with the possibility of regulation of internal temperature; the apartment is properly carried out by ordered antiepidemic measures; the apartment does not have any problems threatening the life or health of persons.' The only thing that evokes me about this is the last point, but it has to assess hygiene, and mold is not a reason for people to move out of their apartments. These inconvenient conditions, where the state now pays its means for surcharges, housing contributions, are caused by old housewarming, where we often witness that people have a bathroom either in the hallway, have no room for cooking and so on. Control should be carried out by the Labour Office, where there would also be one question of who will control it. Yes, it should already be controlled by the employment office today, but because of other activities that have now taken place on them, they certainly do not have the opportunity to do so. If we were to solve an energy problem, an energy crisis, a little differently, across the board, they would certainly not be swamped with thousands of requests, when sometimes our citizens will only get a few hundred crowns or tens of crowns and they would not have to fill in stacks and stacks of papers. The aim of this amendment was to ensure decent housing and not to constantly finance the endless ugly spaces that really exist. [[Members in the hall communicate with one another and do not listen to the speech of the Member.]] I see a lot of people here don't care about this condition. [[Members oppose.]] I don't care, nobody listens, everyone agrees, everyone wants to reject it, this law, from the government coalition. Yes, you said you wanted to prepare your own legal proposal. I ask when it will be, because when we return to the history that Jana Pastuchová repeated here in the last plenary, she said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was called upon to prepare the amendment. She still hasn't gotten around to it. When the payment and the housing allowance were to be merged, the Minister snapped because of the pressure of the nonprofit sector. The SPD law was applied here, where the comprehensive amendment was worked intensively for three quarters of a year in cooperation with YES, ODS, SPD, KDU, we tried to reach the pirát - KDU was not, well, KDU was not, I was alerted - and this proposal was tabled, where we came to some compromise, and all these findings are based on practice. [[18.20 hours]] I therefore ask when, if this law is rejected today and this law is dropped after cooperation with the MPSV, when will there be any proposal that the people or communities that are affected by this will finally be able to do so, whether it is the Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký or Karlovarský Region, which most people here are probably totally not interested, when the mayors have any hope that they can do with the situation, because now that petition is being made to appeal the city's leadership to deal with their situation with excluded localities, it does not mean that if the current leadership is from YES, so that next time there can not be someone from STAN or from anyone else, and those petitions will go to you. I myself have enough experience as it is in the localities. Targeted property purchases, targeted housing, targeted undignified treatment of people living there are being done. And I must say, there must always be sugar and whip. We've got a lot of problems there, and the problems are getting bigger and bigger. No one knows how to help with the situation. The last instruments, regardless of the cost-free zones, were taken over by the mayors of the municipalities, so that they could say that they were trying to do something about the situation. And the House has been silent for years. Please don't deny this law. Come have fun, let's extend the deadline, let's take him as a carrier and give the first signal. The last time I spoke here, I spoke about the fact that it is just a piece of paper, that we have to keep working, that this issue is very comprehensive. These are educational problems, these are problems with drug dealing, drug cooking, drug addiction, prostitution, and so on. Please don't let these locations fall. Let us finally do something about it and let us take a responsible approach to what is systematic and how to deal with it once and for all, because most people think it is unfair. Every day they see injustices happening to working people who are often dehonestized by seeing that someone is only walking for payment in material need, there are really frauds. The tenants themselves are often agreed with the landlords themselves. I don't want to talk long enough about this, I hope you all know it or want to know it, but the situation is really trivial. And I'm really asking you not to reject this law. Let's build it as a carrier, let's talk about complex changes, let's work on it together, because this is the only way we can tell everyone: we want to work on it, and I hope that other colleagues from the coalition parties will give me the truth and want to move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u3	Thank you. Minister Stanjura is attached to the factual remark. [[A little applause from the left side of the boardroom.]] Now, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u4	I ask the question, and it's a rhetorical question, I know the answer. Who's been in government for the past eight years? Who has not been able to do anything in this area? Who designed the only law that passed? This is Mr. Jan Bauer from the opposition benches. So please don't cry here now when after three months we want to take some time and do it right, with reason, with a proper legislative process. No carrier that we're gonna make it here between the first and second readings on the benches without an opponent. That's completely wrong. You've done nothing in eight years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u5	Your factual point has raised a series of three other factual points so far. First is Mrs Fialová, second is Mrs Šafránková and, finally, Mr králíček. Well, Madame, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u6	Minister, Mr. Bauer wouldn't have passed the law if we hadn't supported him, and we were vehemently defending him on the microphone. First of all. [[An unintelligible remark from the diaper.]] Well, he also cooperated and was also not submitted for some revision and so on, exactly the same. And on this complex, now included in this bill, your Members have cooperated. And if you had listened before, you would have heard the development here that she wasn't willing to go on with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in some way and that they were terrified of the nonprofit sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u7	Thank you. Another point of fact was made by Mrs Šafránková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also wanted to respond in the same way as my colleague Eva Fialová to the fact that she had been here three years ago. We defended him, we got him until the third reading, where unfortunately the Pirate Party blocked him, so he wasn't approved. But your colleague, Mr Bauer, was also involved in this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u9	Yes, thank you. Another point of fact, Mr králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u10	I would also start with the rhetorical question of whether Mr Bauer would enforce the law without the support of the coalition at the time, and that is precisely the difference. You, Minister Stanjur, through Mr President, were the one who never gave the government any time. You wanted everything now. And now you want time? You were the one who didn't want to support either - and didn't support - one amendment to the opposition's budget. You don't want to support the opposition at all, you don't want to give us space. And you yourself set an example of the coalition's support for Mr Bauer's opposition proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u11	Next in line with Mr Juchelka's factual remark. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u12	This is where you can see the rational politics. This means that we also supported opposition proposals during the last parliamentary term, because without us, of course, Mr Bauer's proposal would not have passed. But your policy isn't rational because you don't want to push forward good bills, but you want to block absolutely everything the opposition brings. That's why, for example, we have the opposition window on Wednesday... [[Voices from the diaper: Thursday.]] ... at 6 p.m., where we have an hour for opposition proposals, Thursday, where we have opposition proposals. That is why we cannot, for example, present any other points on Wednesday afternoon for the House and all Members have half a day off because you have a senseless Wednesday afternoon meeting and meeting your government. This means that you, on the contrary, are blocking all the things that the opposition here wants to enforce within the framework of its bills. On the contrary, we have acted rationally in the last parliamentary term, and we have also gone through opposition proposals, such as from Mr Bauer. And that nothing was done? In family politics, for example? We increased the parental allowance to 300,000, and we gave my amendment to the families to supplement the parent's pension to the younger child in the family, and we increased the benefits in foster care. And this way, I could go on and on with my social life. However, let us talk about who has the rational policy, who is only driving emotions, who wants to block all the parliamentary proposals from the opposition. And I think the difference is just obvious. Yes, Mr Bauer and his "three times and enough" have passed because we, as the government party of the YES movement, have stood up for it in the last parliamentary term, but now there is nothing going on and we have been talking half an hour from that hour of our opposition window about this one single proposal. Yes, and Mr. Výborný is pointing at me here, because, yes, we've also, of course, gone through the child tax discounts together, probably what he means.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u13	Time, thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Another point of fact is made by Mr Novák, Mr Bauer will be prepared and then Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u14	Thank you for the floor. I think my colleague Juchelka has said enough about what the YES movement has done in the social field. However, to Minister Stanjura. You say, "You didn't do anything, actually, we never helped you with anything." But not only did we support colleague Bauer, but we also proved that the ministry, the ministerial legislation, helped Mr Bauer. And so it is. His proposal was corrected and moved on, and we were happy because the proposal was good, so we supported it and we didn't really care whether it was opposition or not. He was good. Today we're putting forward another good proposal, and I hope that if there's anything wrong with it, you'll get out and say, "We'll do the same thing as you, we'll meet you, we'll let you go on and we'll discuss it with you, and of course the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and its legislation will help you with what we don't like about it." Thank you in front for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u15	Thank you. Another, with a factual remark, by Mr Bauer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u16	Dear Vice-President, dear ladies and gentlemen, I have been duly applied for, but the debate is simply no longer rational, so just the factual one. Yes, I confess, it says a lot of my name here, that I was a really hard-working and very successful MP in the last parliamentary term... [[The gayness across the O.R.]] ...even though I was opposition. That's it, that's it. I will also try not to embarrass myself during this parliamentary term and try to present rational things, and I will admit that I had a few things in my portfolio that mattered to me, such as excluded localities or at all the revision of social benefits, because I really think it is good that there should be no black passengers in the Czech Republic, and not only at the time of the covid, but also at the time of the migration crisis. Money is very little, and this is a good time to think about whether we are spending social benefits in a rational way. And I didn't do it in the last parliamentary term because I wanted to look for some political topics, but that was the main reason, and that was the majority opinion in the Committee on Social Policy, and now don't be angry, colleagues from YES, or from the former, today outside the Czechoslovak Party, you really haven't done anything in the last eight years. Maybe the Social Democrats were added up, but in eight years, you've done nothing about excluded localities. Those were dozens of round tables, and it didn't go anywhere. Unlike the Prime Minister at the time, I did not go to North Moravia to take pictures or shoot, but we wanted to come up with a concrete step. Just so you know what the opposition window looks like -- like with the "three times and enough" proposal, where I would be interested, among other things, in how it works today, because it was a short novel that didn't solve everything, but I think it could work -- so I put it about eight times to the class and four times to the first reading and five times to the second reading. It was just a Martyrium, maybe two years. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And it wasn't easy. Then I'll sign up with the letter at the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u17	Thank you. Another point of fact is registered by Minister Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u18	For Mr Aleš Juchelka, by your means, I was talking about the area of excluded localities, so it is not entirely fair to say that you have raised your parental contribution. This really has nothing to do with the issue of excluded localities, and no one can convince me that this is related. Now to the helpfulness of our opposition today. Well, today is either the third or fourth opposition window and we've been here four months. We had it in four years, too, so once a year we got the opposition window. Well, it's true. We're ready to be here by 11:00, not 7:00, maybe an hour. Your opposition windows start on Tuesday, and you have every right to do so when you are performing for three, three and a half hours on the draft program. Why not? But it's your time. How you use it is up to you whether it's productive or not. And to that end, not rejecting the amendments. I don't have statistics, but I've put 800 great amendments to the EET, and neither has passed. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Not one of those eight hundred went through, and they were really good. Normally, you put an EET on camel breeding. I thought it would pass, too, but it didn't work out because the ANO movement, the Communists and the Social Democrats decided that there were large tax evasions in the Czech Republic when cash was paid to raise camels. Although they were unable to tell how many such farms there are, how many camels are the total number of camels in the Czech Republic, but this amendment, which was very rational, was rejected. But I didn't come here to cry and whine that I didn't get away with it, I took it for real. Well, that's about it. And that we'll never support anything? First, that is not true, second, if you write something well and well, we will certainly support it. In the long run, I believe that some good ideas of the opposition are free of charge. Why not? We're ready for that, but you need to get better, Mr. Warden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u19	Another point of fact is made by Mr Výborný. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I apologize to the opposition, to both opposition clubs, for taking a few seconds from their opposition window, but I understand after 35 minutes that it also needs an educational window. So, please, nicely, the opposition window is to discuss opposition proposals, not to remind ourselves here of what we have done or failed in the last parliamentary term. You don't even have to remind the achievements of our honored colleague, Jan Bauer, we know that, you're taking your minutes for nothing. And it's not the opposition window about you going up here and saying what the government coalition is doing wrong or right, but really, donate to your laws. Unlike us at each meeting every Thursday from 18 to 21 o'clock, three o'clock, you have this at your disposal. It's pointless that we've been wasting your opposition window time here for 36 minutes. Or you can walk and say it's already 18.36, and we don't want to work properly anymore, and why it's not Wednesday at 14:00. Well, that really doesn't make any sense. Take advantage of the time, we can act, discuss one, the other, the third, the fourth press. We have the fourth opposition window, we made about two and a half or two and a quarter points. Your loss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u21	Thank you so much for keeping time. Although there is a note from Mr Juchelka since 18.19, Mr Juchelka has made a point of fact. I guess that cancels her apology, if I understand correctly. Ambassador, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u22	[[With a smile.]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but that's probably a note for tomorrow's exam, so thank you. And as for this point, I'm sorry. I really didn't understand that these are excluded locations. I thought it was really an attack for four years, when a whole lot of, a lot of things really happened in the social sphere. As far as excluded locations are concerned, this was one of our joint proposals, because my honored colleague, Marek Novák, has been signed by the pirát all along. Yes, we all remember the obstructions and part of the opposition, including from the ODS, supported this bill. And at this point, you have the pirát in your government coalition. So I myself am curious when you come up with any proposal to address excluded localities in terms of, for example, the revision of social benefits, which was rightly mentioned here by colleague Bauer, through Vice-President Skopeček, to what extent you will be able to enforce this right here within the government coalition with this party, which has governed this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u23	The other is Mr Bauer, Mr Bauer, once again, on the point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond with this factual remark to the honourable Member, Jan Bauer, and I do not know if this is the way the Rules of Procedure allow it, but only briefly. It seems politically correct to me to admit that I was involved in the proposal tabled here by my colleague Lucie Šafránková and others. It's just true. It's a much more robust novel than the one known as "three times a week" at the time. On the other hand, I find it politically not entirely correct, and even Lucia Šafránková, through Mr President, I have said that it is not appropriate for this government to have any chance of dealing with these things in its own way according to its programming statement, and that it does not seem entirely politically correct for me on the second, third or tenth day to get into the system and call in what this government will do with excluded localities or to revise social benefits when some people themselves have butter on their heads and have done nothing about it for eight or four years. That's my attitude. I think that my colleague here will comment on how our club might stand up to this, too, because I think it would be worth going back to recasting, but there is definitely something to be done about the revision of social benefits, and I would very much like the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to be able to express himself on this issue through concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u25	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Volný, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I can't stop myself from responding to Minister Stanjura, because I'm the one who's shutting this place down... [[He's knocking on the counter.]] ... served, the 800 amendments, and I didn't get away with any of them! I didn't get away with either! [[In an elevated voice.]] I hope it wasn't a targeted lie, which I think Mr. Stanjura doesn't need, it's more of a bad memory. Yes, we generously and unprecedentedly let six pass. So that it's true as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u27	Next is Mr Nacher's factual remark, and Mr Foldyna has long been reporting from his seat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to get off at this point, but I'm getting off. [[Fun in the hall.]] In response to the Minister of Finance, well, this firefight started with this - and by that we are actually robbing ourselves of the time in the opposition window - when the Minister stepped up and said that we had eight years to do it, that we didn't do anything, and that you just wouldn't approve that it would fall under the table and the government would do it. And logically, of course, colleagues volunteered and responded. So the Minister here handsomely threw us shrapnel, of course, and we had to respond and we couldn't leave it in the air, because even Mr. Bauer's proposal wouldn't pass without the votes of the biggest club. It just wouldn't work, that's what it is. This means that the principle of the opposition window is not so that we here on the microphone read various suggestions, I will have a financial arbiter there in a moment, and you will remove it all from our table, that a government amendment will be prepared. After all, it was you who criticized it in the past - I do not have statistics, I am not prepared, but I will do it by the next opposition window - that in my opinion the most parliamentary initiatives have passed in the last twenty years in the Chamber of Deputies. So the really current coalition, the former opposition, can't complain about being torpedoed in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u29	Thank you. Mr. Foldyna, also on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to address Minister Stanjuru, through you, and the ODS Club. I would like to address my fellow Members from the Mayors' Club. It said, "We have it, but it takes time. What time, Mr. Stanjur... Excuse me. [[He's turning to the President.]] Through Mr President - we no longer have time. We in the villages where we live and live, we don't have time. The Constitutional Court canceled the no-fee zone decree, we don't have any more time. We're failing, people moving out of Decin. We've gone from 60,000 down, we've got people leaving. We don't have any more time. We want some kind of legal standard. The mayors at the Šluknov Ridge sent 10 years ago. Yes, social democracy doesn't do anything, I left too. It's impossible to do anything and see what's going on with our cities. I understand that this is not such a major problem elsewhere, but in the north of Bohemia the problem really is. We are sinking into poverty with those who bring poverty and are not willing to deal with it, using people who are traders of poverty, and this law is to abolish it, is to prevent it. Please, let's discuss this. Really, there's no time. I'm very responsible for the people from all over Děčín County and the entire Ústí Region. Thank you for listening to me like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u31	Thank you. Another point of fact, Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u32	I'm gonna respond to three shows, I'm gonna make it in one. For Mr Nacher - I really didn't complain, did I? Someone else is complaining. I didn't complain, I described the condition, I didn't complain. For Mr Foldyna, through the Vice-President - I am not at all easing the problem. I'm not demeaning him at all, I'm just saying and I hope you understand: we do not want to go the way that half the government coalition votes with opposition and vice versa. That's not a good way to go. You can make excuses for an ex-minister here, but that wasn't our member so you wouldn't be able to convince her as part of the coalition. Even Mr. Foldyna was a member of that government party for a while. I don't blame him, I'm just saying. That means, that after three months, he wants to look at it, come up with something, we're not saying we're not going to deal with it, you couldn't hear anything like that from us. And to Mr Volný - he is right. I'm sorry, it wasn't intent, the six went through, it was social services, it was because they voted for social services, so you joined. [[democracy?]] Mathematically for Mr Nacher - although 78 was the largest government club, it was 122 without him and it would have gone through without you, but good that you supported it. It was we who pushed through it, it was my amendment, so that the municipalities could comment on whether or not a housing supplement would pay off at any address. It was the Minister of the Interior for the ČSSD of your governments, who boycotted and sabotaged it and refused to put it into practice, even though 150 of the 151 Members present voted for it - perhaps a few less, but in addition to one, everyone voted for it and it was our amendment that came from experience in the Moravian-Silesian Region. And it was your Home Secretary who boycotted it, your government, so don't blame us for not wanting to do it. Yes, it's normal that the opposition proposal doesn't pass without government votes, so we're not in elementary school to not know what the majority of 200 is. [[Time, Minister.]] But it's also important who worked it out, who set it up, who negotiated it, and that was Mr. Bauer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u33	Thank you. Another with a point of fact is Mrs Peštová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u34	Thank you. I, like Mr Foldyna, am from the Ústí Region through Mr President. I would also very much like to ask you to move forward with this law. In any case, I would like to speak to Mr Bauer, through Mr President - you certainly did not sign up for something that should be a patsy, and there is no point in waiting for something new. I believe you're an erudite person, and if you put your signature on somewhere, you stand up for it. So I believe that this proposal, which is here, is definitely being treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u35	Thank you. This was the last point in fact, I do not see any further, or we will return to the general debate, which was with priority law signed up by President Okamura next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill before us to end the abuse of benefits by so-called inadaptables. I will briefly recall the history of this proposal. The SPD originally came up with this, namely our Member Lucie Šafránková, and then there was a very welcome cooperation with the members of some other parties who then joined, and it is a proposal on which both parties of the current opposition and individuals worked rather on the part of the current coalition. This proposal originally from the SPD pen, which was then supplemented as I said, and even more elaborate it got to the depths just before the last vote last summer, where it was blocked by the Pirates. So briefly and briefly, because of the pirát, benefits are still being abused in the Czech Republic by so-called inadaptable and a really large number of Czech citizens literally pay for this every day with their living comforts in cities and municipalities throughout the Republic. I will remind you that this law was blocked here by the most MPs of the Pirát and today's Vice-President of the House Richterová with her brother, who, of course, had already failed in the elections and is no longer there, and he was a Member of the Ferjenčík, also for the pirát. I would like to stress that this proposal will not endanger any decent and honest person who has proven to be in need of financial assistance from the State. And for us, for the SPD, I say that we will continue to fight our best to end the abuse of unadaptable doses. [[18.50 hours]] To quantify what this proposal is about: if this bill has passed, there will be some CZK half a billion saved public funds, so we could move exactly this half a billion to support decent people, such as helping them or helping the government to make it more expensive. We're the opposition party, but we're making a proposal like this that now - but for that, it takes the votes of the government coalition to move on - that would get half a billion crowns right into the register. And, of course, even the so-called inadaptables have the opportunity to adapt, behave properly, and, of course, they should have no problem afterwards. Of course, this bill of ours will not harm citizens who, for objective reasons, cannot work, namely our seniors or the disabled. On the contrary, from the whole point of view, it will help them and only those who knowingly abuse social benefits do not seek work, although they are skilled, and cheats on our authorities and our citizens, taxpayers. When I say the main principles of this proposal and the changes that this bill brings, this is primarily about increasing the address and right of payment of relevant social benefits and minimizing the amount of unduly paid social benefits. The aim of the proposal is also to bring rules, order and justice into the social welfare system and to limit to the very minimum the possibility of its abuse, which is also an inexcusable abuse of public funds, i.e. honest-working taxpayers' money. This is also the end of the immoral practice of so-called trade in poverty and the fight against the spread of existing and against the emergence of new so-called excluded localities. It is also about changes that would enable our often desperate and helpless employees of the labour offices to control the legitimacy of receiving social benefits more effectively and changes that would also lead to significant savings in public funds. A significant part of the proposal in this bill concerns a change in the rules for the drawing of social housing benefits, where there is a need to establish a clear order and end the waste of public money. I'd like to say here who's the main culprit of the fact that this place hasn't moved in the last eight years. It's a CSSD, let's face it. Here I answer to Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjur, but he knows very well because the main frog on the spring was ČSSD. Let's face it, to clarify what you said here, because they had the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. And as you know, and we all know that, we couldn't at any cost of Secretary Marksová Tominová for ČSSD, or Minister Maláčová for ČSSD, extract any bill to end the abuse of benefits inadaptable, so it was the frogs on the spring, but they're not here anymore. ČSSD has justifiably failed the election. So the citizens decided - from my point of view rightly, because they did not really have a program that the voters of the SPD advocated, as they applied it, so the ČSSD is not here. And right now, we could have moved this right here without this frog on the spring, which was the ministers for the ČSSD. Our proposal also sets clear conditions defining the minimum hygiene and technical standards of flats to which these social benefits can be paid and drawn. There are dozens of these changes, more than 70 of those changes in the bill, so I'll just briefly mention some more - at least five points of these about 70 changes. It is a complex amendment, which, as I say, is actually here on the SPD carrier, then the members of all possible parties worked together, i.e. apart from, for example, the Pirates or the ČSSD, and it is common, one can say almost three years' work. That's why, Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura here says you want some more time, so we're just wasting our time, Minister, and you know it again, because now what you're saying is politics. But now we are not discussing politics, we are now dealing with the substantive intention of the law, on which your ODS MP, who is in charge of social policy, is Mr Bauer, but also MEPs YES, of course SPD, so it is clear, because he is a carrier of the SPD, but also some others. So now would be a good time if we didn't politicize. Basically, all possible Members signed up for the bill, so it would be good to move it forward and relieve cities and municipalities. For example, we propose that social benefits be made conditional on the parents of preschool children being required to attend these children to the final year of kindergarten in the interest of these children and in the interest of the chances of their future decent life application, that is, they will send them to kindergarten, and it would be one of the conditions, not that parents lead idle life, then they see it also children and then it goes from generation to generation. Furthermore, we propose to introduce an obligation to demonstrate the inability to fulfil the duties of a person in the register of labour offices due to sickness or accident, including the possibility of controlling sanctions, i.e. the introduction of an equivalent of the so-called incapacity of employees. Furthermore, we propose strengthening the competences of employees in the field of real estate control for which social housing benefits are paid. We also propose that, in the event of a breach of the law, the social benefit be withdrawn immediately - this is extremely important - immediately, for example, if the recipient of the benefit refuses access to the apartment in order to carry out official on-the-spot checks. The fact that the sanctions have to come, the punishment for the so-called inadaptable right now, I think it's a very important moment. We also propose, for example, an extension of the maximum withdrawal period in the event of a breach of the law, i.e. in the event of abuse of benefits, from three to more pronounced six months. It's been three months today, and it turns out that it's not enough in practice, so if it's six, then a number of inadaptable people will change their minds and start a proper life. Ladies and gentlemen, we think that it is not possible to tolerate endlessly the situation where many people receive social benefits unjustly - we are talking about those so-called inadaptables, when involuntaryly funded by honest-working taxpayers' money, even though they can, and long-term, avoid work, and do not look for it, nor do these so-called inadaptables, and circumvent the laws. In our opinion, working people must not be discriminated against forever. I therefore ask you to support this proposal, to release it to second reading, where we can discuss its final form in detail. And again, we received a petition from desperate citizens on the petition committee, such as from Bílina, but there were similar letters from a number of towns in the Czech Republic, whether it be Rotava, whether it be towns in the Ústí Region, whether it be Úpice in the Kralovehradecký Region, there I was also personally. Those citizens are really desperate for the state that is, so there's really no time to wait. I agree with Mr Jaroslav Foldyna of the SPD, because who was there - and I was in many of those locations - we have a number of voters in the Ústí Region, you know that there is considerable support for the SPD movement, in the Karlovy Vary Region, in the Moravian-Silesian Region - and these are exactly the places where it is very difficult for those citizens, so there is really no time. Every month, it's good to end the abuse. By the way, I'm going to stress again that this is exactly one of those sources of funding for the state budget so we don't pay unnecessary benefits. So this is the law, and I hope that you will release it to us, because once again I say, a number of Members have cooperated on the law, and some other parties have joined in. So we're gonna let it go to speed things up. Finally, I would like to respond to the chairman of the ODS club, Marek Benda, through you. Yes, you're right, my performance was emotional. My performance was more emotional than I suppose it could be the atmosphere in the Czech Parliament, yes. But don't blame me again, because when, Mr Benda, through the President, imagine that someone would charge 50,000 an hour for a meeting with you from another political party, and you learned that additionally. So the fact that I've been emotional in this particular case is really a lot, and the fact that it really turns me on when I say it in a nice word that no one in the government coalition knows how to do it... It's the case since Monday, no one can even say that he'd condemn Mr. Polčák's actions, so it's like... Imagine the situation - I'll say it again - that a lot of people come to you, you're an experienced politician, you're the chairman of the ODS club, that is, a lot of people come to you, and then when you hear from the media that he traded that meeting for 50,000 an hour. Well, then you'd probably be out of your hair, too, even though I know you're a neat guy. [[19.00 hours]] So if it was too emotional, I was just emotional. I am in favour of the atmosphere in parliament being better, and we will welcome it, but the situation has escalated. By the way, and I'm going back to the beginning, in the House, it just escalated from the beginning, just like the SPD never wanted. On the contrary, we've been challenging you, the five-police government, always to act, and you know very well how many times we've been to see you. We have called for your Vice-President Stanjura to act so that we can somehow build the House here so that we can work here in a relatively good working atmosphere for four years, when we've been at that little flat, but you just didn't accept it, your government coalition. Your government coalition didn't accept it so that we could communicate here in some way normally based on who had the election result. And maybe that's why the situation's all over the place, too, and I don't enjoy it. I would also like to work here on the law and agree, by the way, as it was in the last parliamentary term, when I might mention - votes YES, SPD and ODS canceled minimum wage, and I think it was a great collaboration that was... super gross wage, sorry, super gross wage canceled. [[A clue from the diaper.]] It was a surprising collaboration, a surprising vote, where there was some intersection, and I was happy about it back then. I was happy that for such a huge thing, when we helped decent and working people and left them more money in their wallets, three sides that, theoretically, shouldn't agree on anything, if it ever looked like that in the media, so we agreed on the great things that we all stand for today. It was three sides, and it surprised the media, too, so that's the kind of cooperation I would have imagined here. I know we don't agree on a lot of things, but we don't have to fire each other on specific program intersections, we don't have to blame ourselves forever, we don't have to attack each other. But, of course, action, it's a reaction, and it's pointless. So I'm putting my hand back in here, that if it works - and we want it to work quietly so we can work for the citizens so we don't waste any time. For us, for the SPD, we want to be constructive and work together, because time is hard for citizens and citizens are waiting for the government, because you have the majority that will do something about it here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u37	Thank you, Mr President, I am the tolerance myself, although you have not spoken on the subject, so I did not interrupt you - just so you would notice. Before we continue the general debate, I will read the apologies. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský, apologizes from the meeting from 18.15 to the end of the working day for working reasons; Mr Roman Bělor apologizes further, between six and seven minutes from the working session. [[reason]] And I have a real apologies for today for Mr Juchelka's illness from 18.19 to midnight. [[Juchelka is sitting in his desk.]] We will continue with the general debate, the next one is signed up by Mr Bureš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I am fascinated by the fact that it has been agreed that there will be an opposition window and that it will be able to build its own opposition window, perhaps only Mr Okamura can do that. I have listened carefully to all the contributions that have been made here so far. I listened as my colleague Fialová - she has such a beautiful last name, sympathetic, that yes - so, of course, Mr Okamura and their proposals are kind of going against each other. Mrs. Fialová said to have it moved to second reading, and let's work the whole thing out. Colleague Okamura and colleague Foldyna said: There is no time, let's quickly approve everything as it is on the table, as it is lying and running. I think that in this way you need to look at these things in a really rational way. The world has shifted significantly since the SPD colleagues submitted this bill amendment. Vladimir Vladimirovič showed us that what was in force a month and a half ago is no longer valid today. The refugee wave that flooded us, of course, means the demands on our - after all, as set up - social system, which is why I think this proposal, which came from the workshop of social democracy and which was based on a good design... [[Objection from the diaper.]] ... sorry, SPD, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, deep spices - so this proposal from the SPD workshop, the original carrier of which was the good design of my colleague Honza Bauer, is no longer in line with the current challenges. That is why I think it would be worth putting this proposal back into the process, and so please, nicely, according to § 90 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Deputies, I propose that this proposal be returned to the petitioners for completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u39	Thank you. Another one for the general debate is Mrs Oulehlová Renata. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u40	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. My previous speaker, a colleague of mine from the county, also the mayor here called for this law to be passed to be recast to return. I'd like to say that we really don't have time. We don't have time for this law to come back. There are many mayors here, and I don't want any mayor to have to experience what city leaders experience in socially excluded localities. Not only do people move to us, not only do their possessions, which they have worked hard for their entire lives, lose value, because unfortunately, a poor trader moves into their proximity to unadaptable citizens. The inadaptability - I don't really like that word either, but unfortunately, those people are showing themselves the way I talked about it at the last hearing of this bill, that people who go to work who pay taxes, who raise their children, then have no right to sleep or to gain the strength to continue paying taxes and to support these people from their taxes. [[Silence in the hall.]] Thank you very much. I'd like to appeal to everyone, actually. Let's forget about the color of the jersey here. Let's think about the people who live in these locations. And I can tell you responsibly that unfortunately it is not as it was five years ago, these locations are expanding, expanding to many cities in the Czech Republic. They are already in cities and municipalities where they have never been. Once again, I appeal, let us forget the jerseys, let us try to help the citizens who live in those cities and municipalities, because it is really deepening, and, as my previous speaker said, there is, unfortunately, still a crisis that the war in Ukraine has given us all. And it can be quite simple that those who rent their apartments today as poor businessmen to people who are wealthless can simply be left to people from Ukraine - and then start a huge problem, because we will have nowhere to put those people who live there until now. [[19.10 hours]] Please try to forget again if we are from YES, from ODS, from TOP 09, but let us try to support the people who live, who expect us to help them. On the petition committee, we're discussing a petition to appeal the leadership of Bílina, because people can't understand when they come to the mayor, they grow up instead, they can't do anything about it. But those mayors, the mayors, they just don't have any tools in their hands to help these people. We clean up a mess with big money, when these people really do black dumps. We spend hundreds of thousands, millions to destroy them. Once again and for the last time, please forget about the jerseys, but let us try to help people who rely on us and who live in those locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u41	Thank you very much, that was the last application for the general debate so far. No one else is registered in writing. I'm gonna ask if anyone's checking in from the scene? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? Yes, it is, so please the representative of the petitioner, Mrs Šafránková, to deliver the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has fallen, and I thank you all very much for the discussion that we have had here over such a serious topic that has been going on for decades, and the situation in excluded localities is getting worse all the time. The situation is completely alarming. [[The noise in the hall is constantly increasing.]] And by bringing this proposal back to us today, or rejecting it, punishing the opposition, punishing neither the SPD nor the ANO movement, but punishing labour officials, social services unions, educators who work in excluded localities, and punishing mainly citizens. Citizens who live near these excluded localities. And I know that none of you want anything like that, and you're gonna reconsider what you wanted to do, get us back to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u43	I'll cut you off, colleague. I ask my colleagues to quiet down and let the plaintiff's representative speak up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u44	Thank you, too. And please, let us continue with the second reading, and I offer you another discussion, let us make a joint proposal to help our citizens - the decent and the working ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u45	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. I note that in the general debate, a proposal was made both for the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, and for the rejection of the bill by Mrs Golasowská. Therefore, first of all, we will vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I'll begin the vote... Check out? I'll check you out first. It has been withdrawn, I declare this vote (number 66) to be misguided. Please log in with your ID cards again. Well, I'm gonna check you out again, 'cause the system seems to be frozen. I'm gonna ask you again to sign up. We will wait until the number of Members has settled. I think we can vote. I shall repeat once again that we will now vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Who's against it? He got held up? In voting number 67, 148 Members voted in favour of 82, against 66, and I therefore note that we have returned the proposal to the appellants for completion. That concludes item number 26. We will continue with the proposal of Members Patrik Nacher, Robert Králíček, Milan Wenzl, Lubomír Brož, Marek Novák, Ondřej Babka, Martin Kolovratník, Josef Kott, Roman Kubíček and Zuzana Ožanová to issue a law amending Act No. 229/2002 Coll., on Financial Arbitrator, as amended, House Press No 34. We're at first reading. The Government's position has been delivered to you as House press number 34/1. prosit refer to Mr Patrik Nacher as the appellant. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[Voices from the O.R.]] Sorry, I think we have a comment on the vote. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u46	On the 67th vote, I have a yes vote, but I voted no. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-020-026.u47	You are questioning the vote, so we will vote on the objection. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of complying with the objection? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 147 Members were put to the vote in 68, 133 voted in favour, and the objection was accepted. We will therefore be voting again on the resolution in which the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion was made. Yes, I've logged the logout application, so I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to reclaim your ID cards. The number of Members applied for has settled, i.e. we will repeat the vote. I ask, who is in favour of us returning the proposal to the plaintiff for work? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 146 Members voted in favour of 78, against 67. The proposal was adopted and the proposal submitted was returned to the applicant for completion. So I'm reopening point number
