ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. So I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. Today, Vice-President Skopeček will negotiate with the replacement card and vote. It's a replacement card with number 34. I also say that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová for health reasons, Ivan Adamec for work reasons... [[Ambassador Adamec is present.]] Okay, Mr. Ambassador, I'm canceling your apology. Mrs Věra Adámková for health reasons, Vladimír Balaš for health reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for health reasons, Ondřej Benešík for health reasons, Jan Berki - health reasons, Stanislav Blaha - health reasons, Jan Bureš - health reasons, Jaroslav Bžoch for reasons of foreign travel, Oldřich Černý - health reasons, Jaroslav Dvořák - health reasons, Jaroslav Faltýnek for no reason, Jan Farský for no reason, Milan Feranec for health reasons, Ivan Jáč for health reasons, Věra Kovářová for health reasons, Václav Král for health reasons, Jana Krutáková for work reasons, Petr Letocha for health reasons, Petr Liška - working reasons, Karla Maříková - health reasons, Nina Nováková - health reasons, Jaroslava Jermanová Pokorná - health reasons, Jiří Strýček - health reasons, David Štolpa - health reasons, Lukáš Vlček - health reasons, Radek Vondráček - working reasons, Milan Wenzl - health reasons. Furthermore, from the members of the government apologize: Minister Mikuláš Bek due to foreign travel, Jan Lipavskýý for work reasons, Zdeněk Nekula for work reasons, Vít Rakušan for foreign travel and Minister Jozef Síkela for foreign travel. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the proposal from the Grémium, I have for you an organizational communication on the Chamber of Deputies meeting this week. The Chamber of Deputies will negotiate Tuesday to Friday with the suspension of the meeting at 14 o'clock on Wednesday 26 January until Thursday 27 January until 9 a.m. The meeting will continue on Thursday after 18 o'clock, after oral questioning, until 21 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen, on 20 January the President of the Chamber of Deputies, by decision number 12, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, extended the state of legislative emergency. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of covid-19 diseases and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court's finding published under No. 4/2022 Coll., Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic of covid-19 disease, it is the House's Press 127, and also the Government's Bill on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary education in a distance way for the period of pandemic disease covid-19 and on the amendment of Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic of covid-19 disease, it is the House's Press 128. By its decision, the President The Chamber of Deputies number 13 decided to discuss these government proposals in a short session and ordered them: the House's press 127 to the Committee on Health and the House's press 128 to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and set them an unbreakable deadline for submitting a resolution to this day by 13:00. And now I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose to include a new item on the agenda of the 6th meeting, namely the draft law, which was tabled in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency. It is the House press 128, I will shorten the name, about the extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary education in a distance way for the period of the covid-19 epidemic - in a short hearing. This House's press proposed to include the Grémium firmly today, on Tuesday, 25 January, as the first item of the meeting, and then we would continue with other items approved by the agenda, i.e. points from the First Reading Act block. Today, at 18 o'clock, we would have firmly included paragraphs 60 and 61, which are: paragraph 60 is a proposal for changes in the composition of the House of Deputies and paragraph 61 a proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. On Thursday, 27 January, we would open negotiations at 9 a.m. with the fact that by the opening of the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, there was no disagreement with the answers to the written interpelations, and for this reason this item has already been eliminated for the first week of the meeting. Furthermore, for 11 o'clock, we would firmly include paragraph 57, House press 91, and paragraph 58, House press 92, these are points from the Treaty block, and at 18 o'clock we would continue to discuss further items approved by the programme. [[14.10 hours]] At this point, it is all from my side to the House of Deputies programme. Now I ask you, who are you reporting with proposals to modify the agenda for the meeting? I see President Marek the Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u2	Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to make some proposals for amendments to the programme, as they have been discussed today, but not approved at the meeting of the Grémium at the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies. I gradually allow myself first to ask for a firm inclusion today as a second item following the discussion of the Government's draft law on the extraordinary directorial leave of discussion of the second draft law, which was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies by the Government in a state of legislative emergency, namely the Government's draft law amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of covid-19 diseases and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court's finding published under No. 4/2022 Coll., Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic of covid-19 disease, House press 127, the so-called pandemic law. I repeat once again: today as the second item in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. Furthermore, I would like to propose for tomorrow, i.e. on Wednesday, January 26th, to place the following points firmly on the agenda from 9:00 p.m.: As a first point, I propose to include House Press No 61, the Government Bill on Pan-European Personal Pension Product and on the amendment of related laws, the Act on Pan-European Personal Pension Product, at second reading. At the same time, after the second reading, I propose to discuss the law tomorrow, immediately after the second reading. If no amendment is tabled and the Rules of Procedure allow it, then this law will also be discussed at third reading. As a second point after this House of the Press 61, I propose to include item 37, House press 43, Government bill amending Act No. 78/2004 Coll., on the treatment of genetically modified organisms and genetic products, as amended. Furthermore, the third point is point 42, House press number 55, the Government's bill on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment. As the fourth item in tomorrow morning's meeting item 43, House press no. 56, Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the limitation of the impact of selected plastic products on the environment. As the fifth point of tomorrow's programme, I would then like to propose to include item 49, House press 72, Government bill amending Act No. 166/99 Coll., on veterinary care, and so on, veterinary law, as amended. As the next point, i.e. the sixth point, I would like to propose item 44, House press 57, Government bill amending Act No. 242/2000 Coll., on organic farming and on amendment of Act No. 368/92 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended. As the seventh fixed item at the meeting tomorrow morning, I propose item number 50, House press number 73, Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Some Related Acts, Act on Medicines. These are laws that are mostly transpositional standards. They were submitted by the last government, and the government recommends that these laws be discussed in such a firm and preferential manner, as the transposition period has often expired. Furthermore, allow me to apply, under the agreement of the Presidents of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, STAN, TOP 09 and Pirates, for inclusion on Thursday at 11 o'clock, again firmly, the following three consecutive points: First, the discussion of the House's press under number 98-E, submitted by the Government pursuant to § 109 (j) 15 December 2021. This is a government proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation amending Council Regulation No. 168/2007 Coll., on the establishment of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u3	I, for the sake of completeness, Mr President, first to include on the agenda and then to include firmly? [[Yes.]] Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u4	Thank you, this proposal has not been approved for grémia, so yes. Please press 98 first vote on inclusion in the agenda. In the event that it will be included, then firmly on Thursday, January 27th at 11 o'clock. Subsequently, please include points 57 and 58 of the Treaty chapter, first reading. This is specifically House printing 91, Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the Czech Republic's approach to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European EUTELSAT Satellite Organisation and the Agreement amending the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation, and so on. It's point 57, House press 91.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u5	Mr President, the inclusion of paragraphs 57 and 58 is a common proposal, and you come forward with a proposal to put the House press 98-E in front of them. This means that the two points will be voted from the Gremium, and I will then vote on the proposal from the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I'm sorry. I didn't realize that there was a graphic design already approved. Should the House press be included 98-E, it would have been discussed before paragraphs 91 and 92. If it is not included, we will focus on 91 and 92 in the case of approval by the Houses. So many proposals for changing the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Another application for the agenda is made by President Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the proposed press here, House Press 127. It's an amendment to the Emergency Measures Act in the Covid-19 epidemic, which I think I proposed as today's second point. It's a so-called pandemic law. Petr Fiala's government enforces the pandemic law with unlimited effect. On the contrary, the SPD is calling on the government to disband anti-epidemic measures and to abolish the pandemic law. Moreover, the government wants its validity to be unlimited because it expires at the end of February. That's what the SPD is refusing. We demand that for entry into restaurants and other facilities it is sufficient to demonstrate the test and that antibodies are also recognized. [[14.20 hours]] The discrimination of the unscathed continues, and we call on the government to stop it. For example, Ireland has abolished almost all restrictions since Saturday, declared in connection with covid-19 disease. There was no significant increase in the number of patients requiring hospital care. Great Britain is also preparing to put an end to most anti-covoid measures, and Spain will consider covid-19 to be a common flu. It is necessary to let people live normally and all measures can be implemented, if necessary, in a targeted manner, exclusively for risk groups through the law on public health and crisis law, and not across the board. We believe in the SPD movement that even in the Czech Republic the so-called pandemic covid-19 and this disease should pass between endemic diseases. For this reason, Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure Act applies the SPD. 6, from which I will now quote: "A proposal to complete the approved agenda of the House meeting cannot be discussed if at least two members of Parliament or 20 Members object to it. I have here the signatures of 20 members of the SPD Parliamentary Club, by which I hereby give the veto to discuss the so-called pandemic law at this meeting."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Then I'll ask if you can get me the signatures so I can keep them on file. Thank you. I'm asking, who else might be applying? Madam President Schillerová on the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I do not have a proposal to place a point on the agenda, I have a polite request for the Prime Minister to inform him of the positions and planned steps of the government on the Ukrainian-Russian border. I believe that this Chamber of Deputies deserves to receive this information, that is, what are the planned steps and how and to what extent they are coordinated with our partners in NATO structures and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u11	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister is reporting to give information on this point before I vote on the agenda for the meeting. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank President Schillerová for this call. It is indeed a serious situation that the Government is dealing with, and I would undoubtedly inform the Chamber of Deputies this week at some stage of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. But there are some things we can say right now, and I'm happy to do it here, or maybe there are some specific things that the Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová can do with. We are indeed facing, and this must be said, one of the greatest threats to European security in recent decades. We all see that Russia is repeatedly escalating the situation in relation to Ukraine, and this, and this must be said, despite all efforts to dialogue by both Europe and the United States. And the dialogue, or the dialogue effort, takes place in various forums, bilaterally, for example, between the United States and Russia, multilaterally in the NATO Council - Russia, but also on the Platform of the Organization for Security and Cooperation and elsewhere. However, this dialogue does not yet lead to the results that we all would like, and Russia's increasing presence at the border with Ukraine is simply a reality. It is an unjustified and unjustified activity of Russia, but it is happening. Of course, the flow of Russian forces to the border with Ukraine is linked to a number of other Russian activities and together it gives us a picture of Russia's really threatening aggression against Ukraine in the near future, and that is something we need to work with, although of course no one wants it. It must also be said that if any form, and we must also realise that any form of Russian aggression against Ukraine has occurred, it will have a profound and strategic impact on relations with Russia, as well as on the foundations and principles that shaped European security after the end of the Cold War. This must be said openly, and it must also be said that such a situation is not in the interests of anyone. It is certainly not in the interests of the European Union, it is not in the interests of the Czech Republic, it is not in the interests of the United States, but in no way in the interests of Russia. Therefore, the Czech Republic, together with other allies, repeatedly calls on Russia to start releasing tensions and to return to a reasonable dialogue. As far as the Czech Republic is concerned, we have been preparing for the situation for a long time, our concern is to protect... or our basic objective is to protect the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. There is certainly no escalation of the conflict in the interests of the Czech Republic, but of course we clearly reject any aggression from Russia, and we believe and do everything we can to ensure that this solution is a diplomatic way. I would now mention about ten points here, a specific ten points that show how we are following the situation, we are dealing with what we are up to, as the President asked: 1. Since December, the relevant ministries have been preparing for the worst-case scenarios of the conflict, which, of course, we consider Russia's aggression against Ukraine's territory. We are also discussing the possible impact on the Czech Republic and also on aid issues. This situation will be addressed specifically at the Security Council of the State, which is convened on 1 February, i.e. next week. 2. A crisis crew of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is meeting today. The result will be informed by Minister Lipavský to the public. 3. We supported all of the alliance's actions, i.e. in the framework of the North Atlantic Alliance. We are a reliable ally in NATO, we are firmly behind transatlantic unity, and we think that joint action by the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance is important here. 4. We are involved in discussions on possible sanctions against Russia that would occur in enhanced sanctions following Russia's aggression. These sanctions are discussed not only at European level, but, of course, also coordinated with the United States and other partners. On Monday, foreign ministers in Brussels acted, and they were also connected by phone with the Foreign Minister of the United States Blinken, and our Foreign Minister Jan Lipavskýý also participated in this meeting. 5. Of course, the main effort of the North Atlantic Alliance, as I said before, is aimed at diplomatic resolution of the crisis. In particular, this took place on the 10th of January of the NATO - Ukraine Commission and on 12th of January of the NATO - Russia Council. Both of these activities were attended by the Czech Republic. 6. In response to the Russian threat, the Czech Republic is increasing its contribution to the forces of the rapid response of the North Atlantic Alliance and we are also active at diplomatic level. 7. The situation around Ukraine was also addressed by the informal meeting of the Ministers of Defence of the European Union countries held on 12 and 13 January in Brest, France. Here, too, the Member States have clearly underlined the need for a united and strong procedure. 8. The Head of the Armed Forces of Ukraine will visit the Czech Republic next week. A visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine is being prepared, which should take place some time in March and April. As part of these visits, there could be a signature of an arrangement enabling the treatment of wounded military personnel of Ukraine in the Czech Republic. I'm sure the Secretary of State can talk about it in detail. [[14.30 hours]] 9. The preparation and implementation of the activities included in the bilateral cooperation plan between defence ministries of both countries continues. 10. What has already been done a little in the media, bilaterally: January 26, tomorrow, the government will discuss support for Ukraine through the donation of military material, i.e. artillery ammunition. The aim of this donation is to strengthen Ukraine's defence capacity in response to its request in a situation where the Russian Federation has strong military potential at the border with Ukraine and a possible invasion cannot be ruled out. So much, ladies and gentlemen, on at least a few points what is happening, what steps the Czech Government is taking, how we participate in international activities. And I think that this shows that we do not underestimate the situation. We are doing everything we can to protect the interests of Czech citizens, to honour the allied commitments and to prevent the aggressive policy of any state from becoming an acceptable standard in international relations. We are a country that has its own experience with the military occupation and therefore we are not prepared to observe something like this, even in a situation where this does not apply directly to the Czech Republic, but it concerns us indirectly. Our security is in jeopardy and we must do everything we can to resolve this dispute by diplomatic means. And if not, we are prepared to do what we are going to do if what no one wants is done, and that is Russia's aggression against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. I had an application from Secretary Černochová here, she's canceling her application. I can only see here in the context of factual remarks, but I think this is a mistake, Mrs Berenika Peštová and Mr Radim Fiala. Can I erase it? [[Yes.]] Thank you. And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Jan Jakob. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we were all about to discuss the so-called pandemic law today, so allow me to say just a few words about what is going on around this proposal. This proposal will be vetoed by 20 members of the SPD, which is quite legitimate - it has already been, yes - it is quite legitimate, so it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and therefore an extraordinary House meeting will probably be convened for next week. The law is one that solves an extraordinary situation. Finally, the coalition agreed and was accepted by the Health Committee by an amendment that established the temporal limitation of this standard, addressing this crisis situation at the moment. The objective for the future should certainly be to amend the crisis law, say modernization so as to be applicable to similar situations. But what I would like to comment on and what does not really leave me calm is what is happening here in front of the Chamber of Deputies, what is happening in Malostranské náměstí. There's a gallows... [[He's showing a photograph.]] ... such gallows, and with it are written these words: "All traitors and their minions will end up on the gallows." I'm sorry, but that doesn't really leave me calm. I will always be a defender of freedom of speech, but there are limits to that too. The gallows is a threat of death, the gallows is a symbol of execution, execution for some opinion, for some proposal to solve a crisis situation. That has nothing to do with freedom of speech. Please, please also you outside, say your opinion, demonstrate, but without such threats. I do not agree with the interpretation of the Police of the Czech Republic that this is all right. I can't agree with that. That's why I'm begging you - unfortunately, he's not here right now... [[He's looking back at the government bench.]] but I will let him know immediately - the Minister of the Interior to deal with these manifestations of intolerance responsibly. It also bothers me that many people are subject to questionable servers and misinformation. I ask the government to deal with this responsibly over the long term. At the moment it is necessary to break down opinion barricades, not build them - not build them in the form of gallows on Malostranské náměstí. I beg all of you, not just us from all the political parties and the movement, but everyone outside, let's do our best. I am in favour of freedom and I will always defend it, but gallows and death threats are not a sign of freedom. I think it's beyond the law and it's against democracy. This is how unsolvable distortions of society begin, which have really fatal consequences. We don't just know that from our history. Please don't let this happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u15	Thank you. I am now registering the application - I thought President Okamura was applying with priority rights and then President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would respond to Prime Minister Petr Fiala's speech on the government's position on the situation in Ukraine. Petr Fiala's government is trying to drag the Czech Republic into the war of Ukraine and NATO against Russia. The SPD is refusing to escalate the tension and participation of the Czech Republic in this conflict. The government of the SPOLU coalition, i.e. ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates and STAN, has on the agenda its meeting tomorrow, among other things, the gift of Ukraine in the form of up to 5 000 pieces of artillery ammunition caliber 152. Last Friday, Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová of the ODS and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský of the Pirates announced this. This is a clear support and escalation of the threat of war in Europe, to which these two ministers and the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS intend to drag us. Russia, through its foreign minister Lavrov, repeatedly claims that it has no interest in having armed conflict and entering Ukraine, but government war fighters, ministers Černochová and Lipavský, announce in their ideological bias as an answer the plan to export artillery ammunition to unstable and corrupt Ukraine. The foreign-security policy of the Czech Republic should be very modest and provident on this issue, similar to other democratic countries, such as France or Germany, which do not intend to import any military material in Ukraine at this time, in addition to a field hospital, to maintain a neutral position between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and not to harm each other's good relations. This export of ammunition to Ukraine is not in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, we have no right to interfere with the affairs of two sovereign states. Ministers Černochová and Lipavský should also inform our citizens of the diplomatic and economic consequences that will follow after the supply of artillery ammunition to Ukraine, which they have not yet told us. [[14.40 hours]] We in the SPD movement stand for mutual dialogue, reject this way of escalating tensions in this area and bringing the Czech Republic into a possible foreign armed conflict. The SPD movement is neither pro-Russian nor pro-American nor Brussels-based. We defend the interests of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u17	Thank you. President Schillerová is another duly entered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me a few words on the speech of Mr. Jakob, Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. I have a $300-year-old quote written on my Twitter account that resonates with my soul: "I do not agree with what you say, but I will defend your right to say it until death." And I think that what is happening right now in front of the gates of the Chamber of Deputies not far from here, as well as as as a member of the former government who experienced a demonstration in front of the house in Brno, where my family lives, at a time when I was in Prague and a whole number of my other government colleagues, when we experienced various mouths and various bullying behaviors beyond normality, when they took our family members hostage, who, unlike us, did not choose this political path, this path where we politicians were a little bit of a public matter. And I think that this is exactly the moment when the borders between us should be deleted, the borders between the ruling coalition and the opposition should be deleted, and we should all be aware that we must all condemn this with one voice, because it concerns each of us, regardless of which benches we are sitting in at that time of the Chamber of Deputies. And I say that in the knowledge that I was in government, I was a member of the government, I condemn such an act. And if it should be directed towards the members of the current government, I will condemn him even louder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-25-ps2021-006-05-000-000.u19	I also thank you, Madam President, and at this point I do not see any more applications for the agenda, and for that reason I will vote. First, I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. I'll read an apology. Apology from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 25. 1. 2022 to 28. 1st year 2022: due to illness, Mr Igor Hendrych apologizes. I'm still registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you and ask you to re-subscribe with your voting cards. I think we're all in the O.R. First, I will vote on the proposals I have read and on which there was a consensus on the Gremium. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the grémia proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 53, 161 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 161, against no one. This proposal has been approved. I will now read the proposals as they were read. First of all, President Výborný, who wanted to include House Press 127 as the second item, but that cannot be voted on because the SPD gave 20 signatures and vetoed this proposal. Further suggestions are that on Wednesday at 9 a.m., point 61, first second reading and then third reading should be included. Since this item is not on the agenda, I will first put it to a vote on its inclusion in the programme. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 54; 162 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 145, against 17. I note that House press number 61 has been placed on the agenda for the meeting. I will now put to the vote, and I want to ask whether I can put to the vote at the same time that this will be the first item in the negotiations tomorrow - second reading and then second item in the negotiations - third reading. Does anyone object to this procedure? I don't register. In that case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point, this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 55, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 146, against 17. The next point on Wednesday is the proposal to include paragraph 37, House press 43. I just want to ask you in the diaper whether I should read here what the points are, or is the proposal sufficient as it was in the debate? I don't see a contradiction. This means, as another point of solid inclusion, item 37, House press 43. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 56, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 146, against no one. This proposal has been approved. The next fixed item will be paragraph 42, Parliament's press 55. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 57, 163 Members and Members signed up for proposal 146. Next, point 43 would be firmly inserted, House press 56. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 58, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 145, against no one. The proposal has been approved. As another firmly placed point would be paragraph 49, the House's press 72. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 59, 163 Members and Members signed up for proposal 146. The proposal has been approved. Another fixed point would be paragraph 44, House Press 57. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 60, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 146, against no one. The proposal has been approved. The next item is item number 50, House press 73. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of his solid inclusion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 61, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 145, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. [[14.50 hours]] Furthermore, we have a proposal for a Thursday's agenda to include Parliamentary press 98/E firmly on Thursday at 11 o'clock. [[The noise in the hall.]] We need to put him on the program first. Yes, thank you. So first I ask, who's up for inclusion? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 62, 163 Members of Parliament, in favour of proposal 146, against 17. We have included this point in this meeting. And now, therefore, the proposal that we discuss this point on Thursday at 11 o'clock. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of a firm inclusion of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 63, 163 Members are registered, for proposal 146, against 17. This point was firmly placed on Thursday at 11 o'clock. According to my remarks, we voted on all the proposals submitted. [[Two more.]] Anyway, I have said this already during the debate, when President Výborný wanted to include two points, but those have already been classified from the Gremium, we have already voted on them. This means that no one has any objections, we voted on all points and we will proceed to the approved agenda for this meeting. Before discussing the Government's draft law on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary education in a distance way for the period of epidemic COVID-19 and amending Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, it is the House's Press 128, shortened negotiations, we should assess here whether they are in accordance with § 99 para. 5 conditions for the discussion of the above draft law in a short hearing. Do I open the debate and ask if anyone is applying? As I do not see any application, I am ending the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on extraordinary directorial leave and extraordinary training in a distance way for the period of COVID-19 disease epidemic and on the amendment of Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, House press 128, in a short hearing." Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 64, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 163, against no one. The motion has been approved. So now I'm opening up a point.
