ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 16th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here, and at the same time I ask for a slight silence. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, please tell me who you are asking to issue a replacement card. I note that Mr Karel Smetana has requested the issue of a replacement card, he will vote with the replacement card number 24. I also say that the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Mrs Andrea Babišová within 12.30 hours for health reasons, Mr Roman Bělor for work reasons, Mr Jiří Carbol for health reasons, Aleš Dufek for health reasons, Šimon Heller for health reasons, Jiří Horák for health reasons, David Kasal for health reasons, Lenka Knechtová also for health reasons, Tomio Okamura within 12 hours for health reasons, Zuzana Ožanová also apologises for health reasons, Pavel Růžička also for health reasons, Bohuslav Svoboda apologizes for reasons of work, Julius Špičák within 10 hours for reasons of health, Mrs Barbora Urbanová from 10.45 to 12.30 hours for work reasons, Helena Válková for health reasons, Milan Wenzl for health reasons. From among the members of the government, Mr. Prime Minister Petr Fiala apologizes to 13.30 for medical reasons... but please... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] [[It's ringing with a bell.]] I'm going to ask you very much to lower your noise level. He also apologizes from the members of the government of MikuláMikuláš Bek for work reasons, Petr Gazdík until 11 hours for work reasons, Helena Langšádlová for health reasons, Jan Lipavskýý until 11 hours for work reasons, Martin Kupka from 9 to 12.30 for work reasons. Furthermore, Mr Ondřej Benešík, from 6 to 8 April, apologizes for medical reasons for the House's meetings, and apologizes for the whole day, today 6. 4. Mr. Andrej Babiš, for business reasons. That would be an apology now. I must say once again that I understand that the wounds are difficult, but that whoever wants to discuss, please transfer the discussion to the foyer. Today's negotiations should begin with points 79, which is House press 43, Dealing with genetically modified organisms, then paragraph 7, House press 151, and also paragraph 9, House press 174. We would then continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda, which would be points from the first reading block, and at 12.30 we have a fixed point 121, Reminding the genocide of the Ukrainian nation during the famine organized by the Stalinist regime of the Soviet Union between 1932 and 1933. At 1:30 p.m., we have a fixed ballot of 85 to 96 with the result being announced here in the Chamber at 4:00 p.m. And now, please, ladies and gentlemen, there is room for your proposals to amend or supplement the agenda. Yes, I see Mr Patrik Nacher reporting. Mr. Marek Benda has already been signed in. I would prefer the President of the House of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a little silence, and I would just like to propose today as point 2 of the House Press 173, the bill amending the tax administration law. This is the Lex Ukraine in terms of the possibility of writing off a higher percentage of the tax for this year. I recommend that this be listed as the second item today, this is the second reading. As you know, at the last meeting we made the first reading which could not be discussed in the regime § 90. The deadline was reduced to 12 days, the deadline expired yesterday, so I think we can do a second reading today and send our donors a message that their donation towards Ukraine will be taken into account in their tax return for next year. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u3	I'll just make sure it's a proposal for a new point, thank you. And now, Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, yes, it is a new point, we will certainly support it, but I want to re-classify here, and I will tell you why, press 41, point 50, the solution to short-term accommodation. I'll tell you why. Yesterday, when you look at the news of Nova TV, the relevant councilman from Prague Adam Zábranský for Pirates said that short-term accommodation is not being dealt with in Prague because Prague does not have a tool for this. And I think it's preposterous. Prague led by Pirates, STAN, TOP 09, KDU has no tool and the same entities are blocking the instrument. I'm just reminding you that the press is already open, and I'm not suggesting we put it here, and I'm suggesting that we negotiate it. And let's reject it, but that's just gonna make it clear how we feel about it. If you haven't been convinced that I was here yesterday reading the passages from the resolutions of various court decisions at European Union level, then I will read you how Amsterdam, which we all certainly consider a free-minded city here. But I've got all these cities here. It is necessary to apply for authorisation, this authorisation is paid for. From 1. 5. 2021 registration of the accommodation offered in the national holiday rental registration system is required. Before each accommodation must be made known to the city, this is precisely so that the city has some basic information, where the date of arrival is indicated, the guest's departure. And now beware, holiday rentals must not be provided for more than 30 days. I think it's already very hard, I think it's pointless. It's just about trusting the city's leadership, and I say that here as an opposition MP and an opposition representative. We don't have our mayor there, nor our advice. If they decide to be overregulated by the regulation, then it's the decision of the city's leadership. And it's paradoxical that I, as an opposition representative, am pushing for the city's leadership to have these options. What's going on downtown? There's a certain loss of safety, noise, basic hygiene conditions, disorder, loss of privacy in those places, because when people change in those houses every three days, you really don't feel safe there, but above all, it's emptying out the city center. Well, let's split it once, please. I'm a pain in the ass, and I'm gonna be a pain in the ass. I'm curious when there will be an election in Prague in the fall, how the subjects will defend it. [[9.10 hours]] We, by what we would approve, will only give the municipalities the opportunity to regulate it in their own place, in our own space, and thus we, as the Chamber of Deputies, will no longer speak into this at all. So, so, so briefly, the reasoning. I'd set it up for a fixed time tonight at 12 o'clock. I think we can do this in half an hour before that point, let's do it in second reading. If it's rejected, it'll be rejected, but it'll be some kind of clear message. What he is now is that he's actually nothing. Prague is making excuses for the House, the House is making excuses for Prague and I think it is unacceptable for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u5	Thank you. There was a clear proposal for a firm inclusion, and I am still looking around - Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová also has a proposal for a meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u6	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I would rather take the liberty than suggesting a agenda for the meeting, so I would like to pass on one piece of information, particularly to the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, on the issue of the announced selection procedure for the office of the Chamber of Deputies, namely that yesterday seven representatives of the Organising Committee asked the President of the Chamber of Deputies to convene without delay the meeting of the Organising Committee on the announcement of this selection procedure. The club presidents and vice-chairmen of the Chamber of Deputies received a letter last week, which was sent to the current Chancellor Jan Morávek with a call from the President to announce a tender for the Chancellor of the Chamber of Deputies by 31 March. We were very surprised that someone should announce a tender for a position that is occupied at the moment. The following day, we received a letter from Mr Morávek stating that under the Labour Code, he was giving up this place, but he responded to the letter sent by the President, stating that by 31 March this tender had to be announced. I think that this matter must be dealt with by the Organizing Committee, and it should have all the information. The only information we have that is currently being announced, but only until 10 April. The deadline is very short and we should stress that the Chancellor of the Chamber of Deputies is a political function. The Chancellor is here for all Members of the Chamber of Deputies, so I would just like to ask the President of the Clubs to also support the fact that we would meet today, if necessary, in the framework of the Organising Committee, tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u7	I am just pointing out - thank you - that we are still at the point of proposals for changing the agenda, and here I have not noticed that any concrete proposal will fall, and I am not even aware that anyone else would be interested in presenting it. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Pirates' MP Jakub Michálek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. So I will perform with priority rights, and I will respond to what my colleague Patrik Nacher said. We've already discussed this once, so I'm sorry that we're all stalling, but the government coalition has already said that they're preparing a government proposal, because in what you put forward in the Houses of the Press 41, there are no permits or registrations to be introduced, because there you have suggested that it will be governed by a regulation issued within the board, within the state administration, so it is impossible to take further steps beyond the law. It is only possible to use what is mentioned in the Houses of Press 41, so it would be another law that we have approved here for Airbnb, which does not work. We've already been here once, when there was an emergency, approving a law whereby trade agencies can request data from large platforms such as Airbnb. The law applies, we made it here on our knees, it wasn't well prepared, it doesn't work in practice, and not one application has been successfully completed. So, please, let's not make bad-ass legislation here. Let's do it properly, let's work together the coalition-opposition-Prague. I'm offering, let's sit down tonight, we can talk about it. We will inform you of the state in which it is, but it will be a government proposal prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development, and there is also a need for cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade to comply with the European regulation on digital platforms and the forthcoming directives short-term rentals. It is necessary to cooperate with the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for fees, because there is a proposal to increase fees, because without fiscal regulation Airbnb cannot be dealt with effectively, there is a need to cooperate with digitization. So these are all things that need to be prepared properly. As a government coalition, we have promised that legislation will be subject to the effects of regulation, there will be a RIA report and it will no longer be repeated that we will pass a law here in the Chamber of Deputies on short notice and under duress that does not have the desired effect, so here we are. Otherwise, in the future, let us please tackle this constructively. I understand that this is an important subject, and I want us to really work this out. And if the cooperation of the opposition - and I believe that we can agree on this - if the YES movement, as a result of the fact that it will be involved, supports the resulting proposal, then we are able to promise citizens if we pull together that from 1. The first of the following year the law will apply and will be declared in the Collection. So that is the goal to which we should all be aiming, but I do not think that we will come to this by doing, say, folk creativity in the Chamber of Deputies, without involving the relevant departments in order to actually meet all the requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just warning you, we're still on motion to change the agenda, and I'll put you on for five minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u10	Thank you. I would, because I don't have a preferential right, so I'm willing to place a point at 11.50 on Mr. Jakub Michálek's answer, and I'm going to justify the inclusion of that point now, because otherwise I wouldn't have a chance to react, and it would be unfair that whoever has a priority right here can speak without suggesting a point, and I can't, as an ordinary MP, so I'm going to solve it in this form. My colleague, through you, Madam Vice-President... [[Objection from the O.R.]] ... I justify the point I want to place. I want to place a point in response to the words of Jakub Michálek, because otherwise I don't stand a chance, and it's really a one-sided thing, and I hope you don't support this kind of thing. That's not my suggestion. You've got it all wrong. This is the design of the capital city of Prague, where you have a mayor. That's your mayor's suggestion, and you're here to argue with me. That's the council's proposal, where you have a majority, where all the deputies have enforced it, that's the point. And you send it here, I load it here, Hana Marvanová as the promoter defends it here, and then you say it's wrong done. Then tell your mayor, don't tell me! But you guys didn't tell him, you guys are doing it like that. [[Applause in the left side of the hall.]] And then the mayor tells us we're not defending Prague's position enough! And I say here in vain that it is sometimes difficult, because the problems outside Prague are less interested in those Members, such as currency exchange, taxi drivers and so on. So that's it. But all I'm saying is, these are Tasty Apples. So let's discuss this, you guys finish up somewhere at the Ministry, then bring it up here. But from the information I have, it's such a complex proposal or it's considered such a complex proposal that it won't even go through at all. This place isn't gonna get away with anything, and I'm terrified that the third version is gonna come in here and it's gonna stop again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u11	Thank you for your contribution. And the chairman of Radim Fiala has signed up with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u12	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Vice-President Vildumetzová's contribution. I've also heard from the machine guns that the chancellor should be replaced. Madam President Pekarová informed me of this in the hallway, behind the door, that there would be a tender. And I believe that this is not the Chancellor of the TOP 09 or the coalition, that he is the Chancellor of all Members, and that this should be discussed on an official forum, at least on the Organizing Committee, that we should therefore have fun, why the coalition wants to call him off, what it has done, or if it is just a political purge. So that we know what he's done. [[9.20 hours]] And finally, if it continues in this way, we'll also be replacing the porters at the gate because they were here during Babišův's era. So come explain to us, Madam President, what happened, what he's done, why we're going to trade him, why we're writing a tender. He's the chancellor of all of us, and there's gonna be a man sitting here I hope for a long time, and we want to know what's in it. So, for the SPD club, we strongly support what Vice-President Vildumetzová has proposed here. Let's discuss this at the official forum on the Organizing Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-000-000.u13	This was another contribution with a priority right outside the speeches on proposals to change the programme. I just want to point out that we are still on this point of the Agenda. And I see no one's reporting in anymore. I can therefore convene my colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber and recapitulate that we will vote on the amendment to the agenda, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the proposal for a new item tabled by Mr Mark Benda and then on the solid inclusion proposed by Mr Nacher. We're running out of people in the O.R. So I will recapitulate: first we will vote on the inclusion of a new point, namely the House press 173, it is a draft tax law, second reading. It's about helping Ukraine. And since I think we all know what we're going to vote on, I'm taking the vote. Who, please, is in favour of this new point? Who's against it? In the vote number 117, 174 Members were enrolled, for 173, against 0, or we have included this new item. And we still have a vote on his solid inclusion as item number two today. I have also launched a vote on this. Who's in favour of this fixed classification today as point 2? Please, you can press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote 118, 174 Members were enrolled, for 172, against 0, and I therefore note that this item has been firmly placed as a second one today. And we have yet to deal with Mr Nacher's proposals. These relate to point 50, House press 41, the amendment to the Trade Act, the content is devoted to Airbnb. The first proposal was in order to be firmly placed today at 12 o'clock. So I started voting on this solid assignment today at 12 o'clock. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 119, 174 Members were enrolled, for 78, against 10, and the whole result is that it was not firmly included. And one last suggestion - but I have a point of fact, perhaps to vote. Or can I delete it? I'm going to erase Mr. Lochman. It's probably a mistake. So the second proposal, today, is a firm inclusion of this point at 11.50 a.m. from Mr Nacher. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of this firm assignment? Who's against it? In the vote number 120 174 Members and Members were enrolled, for 80, against 10. Even this proposal did not pass, the point was not firmly placed. So I'm saying that we've dealt with all the voting proposals to change the agenda of the meeting, and I just want to make sure I'm aware of your application, Mrs...? No. Okay. And so we can move on to our current first item on the agenda of today's meeting, and that's the point.
