ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 222/2016 Coll., on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the Creation of Laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties (Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties), as amended, and Act No. 277/2019 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, as amended /German press 202/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u2	Hello again, colleagues, thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Members, allow me to briefly mention the bill amending the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and the Amendment Act to the Act. These laws introduce the electronicisation of the entire lawmaking process, through the electronic Collections of Laws and International Treaties and the electronic legislative process. The most important change proposed by the bill is the shift in effectiveness of the introduction of the electronic Collection of Laws and International Treaties and the electronic legislative process by one year, which is on 1 January 2024. This shift is motivated by the current outlook for the completion of the technical implementation of the electronic law-making system, i.e. the eLegislativa project, which represents the most complex part of the entire eLegislativa project solution. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure the necessary legisvacation for the implementation of this system under the conditions of the central administrative offices, the chambers of Parliament and the Office of the President of the Republic. I stress that the built-up eLegislativa system is a unique IT project that is out of line with its concept and complexity so far with everything that we have implemented in our public administration information systems and does not yet have an adequate comparison on an even international scale. In the light of the urgency of the adoption of the bill, it is proposed that the Chamber of Deputies, as the Vice-President has already mentioned, should have agreed with the proposal at first reading. At the same time allow me, colleagues and colleagues, one comment. I am really sorry about the time shift, and I think that if the previous government paid enough attention to the preparation and all the tax of the project, we could have already tried at this time, we could have had that test year now and we could have done it from 1. 1. 2023 to proceed. The current management of the Ministry of Interior, the current government wants to present the project as fully operational, wants sufficient time to test it and wants to be sure that the complexity of the project will be such that all users are satisfied and we do not cause any problems to the public administration in the Czech Republic. Therefore, I am very pleased to ask that this press be approved and that the implementation of the entire project be postponed to 1. 1. 2024. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u3	I thank the Minister for the introductory words, and now I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to take the floor. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 April 2022 the Government submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a Government Bill amending Act No. 222/2016 Coll., on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the Creation of Laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, as amended, and Act No. 277/2019 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, as amended. First of all, it should be noted that the effectiveness of Act No. 222/2016 Coll., on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the Creation of Laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, and so-called Amendment Act No. 277/2019 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, is set out on 1 January 2023. This is the basis of legislation enabling the implementation of comprehensive electronisation and modernisation of the production of published legislation. The most important change presented by the proposal is the shift in the effectiveness of the abovementioned laws to 1 January 2024. As part of the preparation of the eLegislativa system, an extension of the change requirements and additional functionality was found which were identified during the analytical negotiations with the project partners. Completion of the project is envisaged by the applicant at the end of 2022. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior perceives the general need to set aside the appropriate time to implement the verification operation of the system and to train users of the eLegislativa system. It also takes into account the previously stated request of the Chamber of Deputies to verify the operation of the system for 18 months prior to the launch of the eLegislativa into sharp operation. Last but not least, the conditions for the grant of the project from the EU Structural Funds should also be respected. These presume the introduction of the eCollection and eLegislative system into practice no later than 1 January 2024, the failure to fulfil this condition would result in the need for the recovery of the subsidy funds. Verification operations are needed for the proper future functioning of the system, but with regard to the drawing of subsidies, I consider the press' proposal to shift efficiency in the current situation to be optimal. The proposal also deals with the precision of terms, transitional provisions. There will be a clarification of the content of the concept, the text of the text of the legislation as amended, the full text of the whole legislation, as amended by previous amendments, which may also have future effectiveness and the amendments that have just been announced. The text of the legislation, as amended, will therefore not only be the text of the legislation, as amended by the amendment, but also taking into account any different texts established on different dates. For example, if the amendments, including the amendments currently announced, introduce three different texts, one with effect from 1 January 2023, the other with effect from 1 January 2024 and the third with effect from 1 January 2025, all those texts in force with information on the date of entry into force of each of them. Obviously, the Ministry has made progress in its work and in the preparation of this system. It is proposed to specify the procedures for issuing other acts pursuant to Section 4 of the Act, such as communications, resolutions, decisions and so on. As with the implementing legislation, the link between the law on the basis of which the act is issued pursuant to Section 4 is highlighted here. The non-compliance introduced by Law No 4 is being eliminated. 277/2019 Coll. by means of an amendment in connection with the introduction of so-called single days of legal effectiveness. Proposals for constitutional laws, legal measures of the Senate, government regulations and decrees whose creation or consultation was initiated before the date of entry into force of this law shall be submitted for discussion on the date of entry into force of the law by means of an electronic system of law-making. This makes it easier, in particular, for a bill which is not submitted to the Chamber of Deputies by the Government, i.e. a proposal from a Member or a group of Members, a Senate proposal and a proposal from the Council of the Region, which will be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion before the entry into force of Act No. 222/2016 Sb. This will be discussed the old-fashioned way until the publication phase in the Collection of Laws, i.e. without the use of the eLegislative system. According to the proposal, the publisher will ensure that an act which has been published in the Collection of Laws or in the Collection of International Treaties in the last three calendar months before the date of entry into force of this Act into the electronic system Collections of Laws and International Contracts within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Act. For acts which were declared until 4 April 1945, the issuer shall ensure that they are entered into the database of information on acts within one year of the date of entry into force of the Act. In Law No 277/2019 Coll. the transitional provision for amendment of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, so as to make it clear that the bills submitted to the Chamber of Deputies prior to the entry into force of this law, i.e. before the introduction of the electronic system of law-making, will be discussed in accordance with the existing legislation, i.e. without the use of the electronic system of law-making. Following the newly proposed § 26 para. 2 of Act No. 222/2016 Sb. these laws will be inserted into the e Collection system only when they are published. [[12.10 hours]] The explanatory memorandum states that the economic and financial scope of the proposed legislation on the state budget, other public budgets and the business environment of the Czech Republic is described in the context of the overall solution in the explanatory memorandum to the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. If one of the Members wanted to read this, he would have had to look into the press for the period from 2013 to 2017. In view of this deficiency in the explanatory memorandum and the need to look for explanatory notes for several periods, it is understandable why, in the explanatory memorandum, the appellant mentions the outdatedness of the means of law making and of certain law-making practices and the low transparency of law-making. The actual time shift in the completion of the eLegislative and eLegislative project and the existence of verification operations does not substantially increase the implementation or operating costs of the system. The costs of the solution are increased directly in connection with the time shift in the effectiveness of the Act by adding the data base of the eCollection system and verifying it with legislation and other acts published during the extended implementation period of the project and during the verification period. In this context, the costs of the circus up to CZK 15 million per year can be expected, the exact amount of which will be the result of the relevant procurement procedures. The applicant requested that: The Chamber of Deputies agreed to the proposal at first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies for reasons of urgency. The effectiveness of the two draft laws is currently laid down for 1 January 2023, therefore it is necessary to amend them by the end of this year. I join in discussing the proposal pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. At this point, I am opening a general debate to which President Michálek has signed up with priority rights, whom I will ask. She prefers the Vice-President, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to confirm my colleague's words that we will support this press in the so-called '90s'. I have just been thinking about what the Minister of the Interior has been talking about, and I very much welcome that he is going to make an effort and that he is going to succeed in doing what has been going on for many years, and I would like to ask very much - I will not do this, Minister, with an accompanying resolution, but I think that with the state of the e esbírka and eLegislativa, if officials from the Ministry of the Interior could come and introduce it to the Committee on Public Administration, or to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I think it might also help if they were familiar with it and at the same time that we would actually know where the pitfalls are, what it's all about, and that they would be familiar with it, because we're going to be working on it soon, so that we have more detailed information about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u7	Thank you. Another with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I served in the last parliamentary term as chair of the Sub-Committee for the Electronic Collection, on which the Ministry of the Interior regularly reported its progress in this project, which is why I am very interested in it and where I would very much like to celebrate together the success of having, say, a more advanced form of lawmaking. The project, of course, is crucial. He's ambitious, as the Minister said. In the last parliamentary term, he got complicated because of the covid and the delay of the supplier, at least according to the information from the Ministry. However, it must be said that the project is not quite so unique that some other institutions, such as the European Parliament, which has the AT4AM project, under which the European Parliament constitutes legislation, and I must say that there are significantly more amendments, when we have a head of what they have in the European Parliament, so some projects of this type work. So the 600 million is a thing that I'd say is a little bit of a thing at the time when it was decided, so alternatives to buying something that already exists and works should have been considered. It could have been ten years earlier and it could have been ten times cheaper, but simply, governments are constantly deciding to continue what works, European money is for it, so there is probably no other way than this project, which is in a phase where there is only a legislative component left to complete and complete. Of course, it was very difficult for me as chairman of the subcommittee when it came to the proposal for an extension, and all of us assured us from the Ministry of Interior of Officials that this was the last time that the electronic Collection of Laws project was going to be extended, and, sacredly, there they swore that there would be a yearly trial operation, that it would be possible and that it would no longer extend. So we've given it the green light, we've extended it in the last parliamentary term - 2023 - and that's why it's uncomfortable, of course, that now it's extended another year. Of course, it is not, I would say, the fault of the Minister who came to this, of the Czech eGovernment, which is what we are going to talk about, in a dissolute state. As we in the Czech Republic take over, digitalization is more or less on paper. We have tools, if we already have them and they work, they're very unfriendly to users. We have already approved here in the Chamber of Deputies the lapsus that we have left from the last parliamentary term with writing services that were approved in a legislative emergency. It wasn't ready, it had to be extended. We have a problem with extending eLegislativa and eLegislativa, a problem with a catalogue of services that is not being completed as it should be done so that citizens have access to digital services, which is something that we have once again approved in the last parliamentary term - the law on the right to digital service, and it remains more or less only on paper. Electronic ID - it's a stretching mess while we have special electronic IDs made with chips that can be uploaded to an electronic signature... Just today I had a meeting with three high-ranking officials, asking them who's using it - none of them are using it. So sometimes I feel like an endemic when I have an electronic I.D. with an electronic signature. And the condition in which eGovernment is actually passed on to us is very, very pathetic. Logically, who would like to use an electronic I.D. to get an electronic signature up there, you have to have five different codes? You need to remember five codes to germinate it with an electronic signature, using electronic identification. I am so glad that this approach is changing here, that digitalization is a priority for this government. Mr. Deputy Prime Rakušan of the Ministry of the Interior, where the core of digitization is, and Mr. Vice Prime Minister of Bartoš. Really, let's think of this as our extra-partisan mutual interest. I understand he was a covid, that there is war now, there are many other issues, but digitalization must remain our long-term priority. Indeed, we must move toward the fact that services work in reality, that this is not postponed repeatedly. And I have one question for the Minister: if the Ministry can manage the launch date 2024, if the people responsible for this at the Ministry are ready to make it happen in time so that we don't really have to extend it again. And I believe that our interest in the Chamber of Deputies will also make it clear to the Ministry of the Interior that this is an essential matter where we really want it to be completed, and not to extend it again, and the Minister will have complete and full support, so that the administrative apparatus responsible for implementing this project can also drive suppliers to not really come forward again with the fact that it has to be extended, that something else has to be dealt with and so on, so that we can actually get this project to work. So that's my only question. And, of course, we will support the bill, as agreed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u9	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr králíček is registered. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I have to respond to my previous speaker because I fundamentally disagree with what has come down on you that you are receiving eGovernment in a miserable state or that it was wrong. First of all, unlike you, you were part of it too. It was cooperation across the political spectrum, key laws were communicated with the current Minister and your other colleagues. Some of your colleagues, or parties, had contracts at individual ministries as advisors for eGovernment and digitalisation. And if I had to name everything that went well here, those two minutes wouldn't be enough. So I'd like this discussion to be correct, because you, your deputies, have been in all the negotiations in the past. Your colleague went to an rvis meeting, Mr. Bartoš went to a meeting with Mr. Dzurilla, you had information. And what did you do? You were preparing the transformation that your colleague, the deputy at MMR Mr. Profant, presented to us, we saw her there once. We've had a lot of questions you haven't been able to answer. And at the same time that you first presented it to us on the eGovernment subcommittee, you just put it in government and approved it. And you're saying something was complicated? So you want to make digitalization easier - so Deputy Professor Profant and Mr. Bartoš sit on MMR, the key bodies are at the Ministry of the Interior, and you've made a team at the Office of the Government. That's easy for you? And if you want to move it legislatively, you have to change at least three laws: the law of service, the law of competence and the law of public administration systems. It'll take you a year. Then don't tell me you're speeding things up!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u11	Thank you for keeping time, another factual point by Mr Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I actually expected that when a representative of the then government came forward, he would take some responsibility for the way in which their government and the then coalition partner of the ČSSD, who was in charge of the Ministry of the Interior, was managing the matter, rather than accusing the opposition of failing to digitize in the last parliamentary term. Well, that's crazy! I understand where you learned this, but the idea that - I didn't notice here that any of us would ever do it during the government, that he would blame the opposition for the general failure to manage eGovernment on an executive level. I think it's really out of order. I think it's an inability to accept responsibility for the results of the job. If it wasn't for the pirát in the last parliamentary term, the law on the right to digital service had never been passed. And I remember very well how the promotion of the law on the right to digital service was negotiated. And if we hadn't pushed the Home Secretary to do that then, the law isn't here at all today, and the state of preparation to move to a digitally functioning state is far worse. So please, let us not hold this debate in a way that the opposition may have been responsible for the failure of eGovernment in the last parliamentary term, not a fair argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u13	Your factual point raised another factual point by Mr Králíček. Please, your next two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u14	I'd like to respond again, too. Ambassador, I don't want to be, as I would say, insolent, but you should see a doctor, at least an ear. I did not accuse in my speech the failure of the previous government in the area of eGovernment opposition. First of all, there was no failure, and second of all, I was just saying that you were working with us on this. And just tell me, how could you, thanks to you, enforce the law if there was no government agreement? You guys had a majority here in opposition that you'd push it through without us? You were the law yourself without the involvement of Mr Dzurilla's government agent, without the participation of the Ministry of the Interior, without the participation of us others who reminded him of who we were involved in this? You made it yourself as pirát and pushed it through in the House? You call that a fair argument? That's for another doctor to see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u15	Thank you for keeping the time, but please do not address yourself directly. Another factual point, Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u16	Well, I'll just take a quick look. Well, I don't like it when someone's sending someone to the doctor for some medical examinations, but I'm gonna pass. The work in politics is such, and the previous speaker certainly knows that sometimes the cooperation works, sometimes you simply set such conditions and expectations in the public that something will happen, even at the government level, at the first moment was not entirely inclined to do so. Of course, we were working with Vlad Dzurilla, who covered digitalization that did not interest the Prime Minister. We worked with people from RVIS, we worked with people from the Ministry of the Interior, but the initiative to create a citizen's right to digital service and many other laws - and this was the founding law, the right of a citizen to digital service, and others were implementing DEPO, where we also cooperated - was created on the ground plan of the opposition in the Chamber of Deputies on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which I had the honour to manage, so the journey of the law began in the House, as well as the law on digital technical maps. And thanks to good political work, but also the helpfulness of some of the members of the government coalition back then, we managed to bring these laws to an end. So to straighten this out, I'm going to use the last 40 seconds to figure out transformation, digitalization. The project's been going on for three months. The changes to the laws - which you mentioned may be one less or one more - are being prepared and we want those systems that have been in jeopardy for a long time, and the hearts of digitization, these are the registers where they have always been sought at the last minute, as Mr. Hamáček gets the money to run at all, we just want to move and have the shared services at the level that can be provided to all the directors, both know-how and expert assistance. That the transformation project is not right away, it is clear it has some stages, but digitization is ongoing, we have not stopped it and a lot of applications that may be dealing with the current refugee crisis, registration... [[Time, Mr. Vice Prime Minister!]] ...are already dialed by this government at individual resorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u17	One more factual point, Mr králíček, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u18	I wouldn't have sent anyone anywhere if those arguments were fair and you didn't claim something you didn't do on your own. Mr Michálek is telling the truth here, and I believe that digitization, or what has been done in the past four years, has not been just one law, has been crucial and I have never denied Mr Zajíček's participation in this law. I didn't deny your participation as pirát. You say you did it without us, I never said it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u19	Thank you, I do not see any further factual point, so we will return to the general debate to which Mrs Pošarová is registered. Sorry, you're gonna get ahead of yourself, Vice-President Richterová, with priority rights. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u20	I'm sorry, I won't. I've been properly logged in. What's going on, colleagues and colleagues, and what's been going on here in these factual notes, is the actual result of digitization over the last years. I am a common user, unlike many of my fellow pirát, I am not an IT girl and use an electronic signature in my current form - I may also be one of those endemics because I have arranged it - but it simply cannot, it is a dysfunctional tool and very expensive in the finals for government as set up, and that is the result of your government. This is what we point out - that unfortunately these things are needed, but in the form in which it has been set up in recent years, this is very, very difficult to use. And that's something we want to change in digitalization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u21	Yes, thank you for the show. Real comment, colleague králíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u22	Madam Vice-President, through Mr President, you are here to evaluate four years of work on eGovernment digitalisation based on one of your experiences or experience of Mr Michálek, and even then inaccurately. So please, we're either gonna have a fair time, and I'm not gonna send Mr. Michálek to the doctor, through Mr. Skopeček or directly, I don't know, or you're gonna give misleading information, and then this debate will never end. There's been a lot of new applications, a lot of infrastructure work, a lot of legislative work. If you want, I can join the debate, and I can name them here for twenty minutes or forty or another hour, and then you can tell me that I'm building the law again. So either we're going to have the debate right or we're going to extend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u23	Thank you, too. And now it's Mrs Pošarová's turn. We are in a general debate. So far, it's the last logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, the House Press 202 is a government bill amending Act No. 222/2016 Coll., on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the Creation of Laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, as amended, and Act No. 277/2019 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, as amended. These laws address the shortcomings of the current state of law in the area of lawmaking and declaring and are effective from 1 January 2023. This bill primarily brings about a shift in the effectiveness of these two laws on 1 January 2024. The motivation of this displacement is the completion of part of the electronic legislative process eLegislativa. The implementation of eLegislativa was negatively influenced in 2021 by a number of external factors, mainly limited capacities of partner institutions and the labour of the remaining parts of integration work. At the same time, it is necessary to extend these to the change requirements or additional functionality that have been identified during the analytical negotiations with the project partners as part of the implementation of the project eSbírka and eLegislativa project. Their aim is to further complement the eLegislativa solution in such a way as to facilitate to the maximum extent the transition from the current form of legislative work to work in the environment of the electronic legislative process, and it is also necessary for eLegislativa to enter the verification operation and the training phase of users. Another change is the adaptation of the concept of the transition from the current form of the legislative process to the electronic legislative process using eCollections and eLegislativa, namely the modification in the process of digitization of acts published in official administrative collections before 4 April 1945 and minor clarification of the text of Act No. 222/2016 Sb. In this case, I also understand the proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the draft law at first reading in accordance with Section 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, although as a reason I would rather see the certainty of changing the timetable of work for partner institutions than the urgency of time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u25	Thank you. The rapporteur also signed up for the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u26	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Press 202 appears to be a problem-free, similar to Press 201. I agree once again with the paragrafo text, however, as with the previous press, I would like to draw attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, namely the provisions of Section 86 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 3. This time I will not quote the whole of it, I will just take it out of it: Part of the bill is an explanatory note, which contains the financial scope of the proposed regulation, in particular the demands on the state budget. The explanatory memorandum states that the economic and financial scope of the proposed legislation on the state budget and other public budgets and on the business environment of the Czech Republic is described in the context of the overall solution in the explanatory memorandum to the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. Compared to the previous press 201, I must honestly admit, it is also said that the actual time shift in the completion of the eLegislative and eLegislative project and the existence of verification operations does not substantially increase the implementation or operating costs of the system. The costs of the solution are increased directly in connection with the time shift in the effectiveness of the Act by adding the data base of the eSystem Collection to legislation and other acts published during the extended period of implementation of the project and during the verification period. In this context, the costs of about CZK 15 million per year can be expected. In this case, the appellant sought to fulfil the mandatory content of the explanatory memorandum, but the reference to some other unspecified parliamentary term of the House is not correct. I merely remind you that the unspecified reference concerns the pre-last parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies 2013-2017, namely the 646 press, in which several options relating to finance are mentioned. The applicant's reference to the outdatedness of the means of law-making, as well as to the low transparency of law-making, is therefore really appropriate in this case, but it is a human error, not a systemic error. I'll remind you again, forgive me for reading all the explanatory notes when I'm the rapporteur and I want to give you an objective update on the state of the regulation. I would like to secretly hope that this speech will make someone read the explanatory notes, considering whether they are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Perhaps there is a possibility of using the political deputy to control the explanatory reports. Despite this unusual error for me, I dare to be constructive, and, as I have already said in the explanatory report, I support the acceptance of the proposal at first reading and thank you for an interesting debate to all concerned, and I am glad to learn that my colleague Jakub Michálek is an endemic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u27	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is in the general debate or wants to sign up. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Now there's room for final words. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I won't delay much longer, but there has been a question from President Michálek whether we will be able to make it to term one this time. 1. 2024. As I felt, there's a huge consensus and will between the opposition and the government coalition. The opposition is pushing digitalization, that's good, the government coalition has it in its programming statement, and the MPs are obviously pushing it too, so I think the pressure on the Ministry of the Interior will be such that, of course, we can't resist it in any way. Anyway, that's the term 1. 1. 2024 will come true. Thank you and thank you for an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-006-020.u29	Thank you for the final word to the Minister. I understand that the rapporteur meant the final words of the speech at the end of the general debate. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. Allow me to make a motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 202 so that it can be agreed with at first reading. Yes, I'm registering your application for check-out. I'll check you all out. Please note that I have also engaged, so that colleagues have the room to return to the hall. In the meantime, before the number of Members in the Chamber is settled, I will repeat the resolution on which we will vote: the Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 202 so that it can be agreed with at first reading. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of such a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 56 vote, 131 Members were enrolled, 131 were in favour, no one opposed or abstained, and the proposal was adopted. [[12.40 hours]] We will therefore continue with a detailed debate. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see it that way. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? It's not. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 222/2016 Coll., on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the Creation of Laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, as amended, and Act No. 277/2019 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, as amended, according to House Press 202." Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of such a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 57 vote, 132 Members were enrolled, 132 voted in favour, no one opposed, no one stayed. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. Before we proceed to the next point of our negotiations, I would like to read my apologies. Today, from 13.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Haas apologizes. Minister Michal Šalomoun extends his apology from 11:30 to 13:00 for work reasons. That was an apology. We will proceed to the next point of our approved program, which is point number
