ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Sb., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse, as amended /German press 174/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 As I read at the beginning... [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I would ask the House for peace, please. Thank you very much. Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. I will ask the Minister of Agriculture and, at the same time, the rapporteur, to take up positions for the appellants and rapporteurs. At this point, I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Agriculture to present us with this government bill. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present the Government's amendment to Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power. The aim of the draft law, drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Office for the Protection of Competition, is the transposition of Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between undertakings in the agricultural and food chain. The aim of this Directive is to ensure protection for farmers and other suppliers of agricultural and food products against the most obvious unfair commercial practices of their customers, typically such as commercial chains. The Directive lays down rules on the conclusion of supply contracts and defines a list of unfair commercial practices for the sale of agricultural and food products. The relevant provisions of the law are therefore brought into line with the Directive. The most significant amendment to the existing wording of the Act on Market Power is the new definition of the scope of the entities concerned. It is based entirely on the text of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive. The law on significant market power currently affects only small quantities of the largest customers with an annual turnover exceeding CZK 5 billion. However, in accordance with the directive, the law on significant market power will apply to customers whose annual turnover exceeds EUR 2 million, which is CZK 51 million. In addition, the annual turnover of the supplier will have to be taken into account in order to determine the scope of the law on a specific business relationship. [[11.20 hours]] Therefore, the significant market power is newly based on the relative bargaining power of customers and suppliers, as the size of operators in the agricultural and food chain varies. The aim of such an adjustment is to protect small and medium-sized enterprises. The directive allows for maintaining or introducing stricter national provisions. It makes use of this bill and, in the light of the experience gained from the past application practice, leaves in force the prohibition of several unfair commercial practices which, although beyond the scope of the directive, are in line with its objectives. The draft law was thoroughly discussed with representatives of the entities concerned, both on the supplier side and on the customer side. The draft law was drawn up in really close cooperation with the Office for the Protection of Competition, which will apply it in practice. In addition, the draft law was discussed twice in full with experts in the Government Legislative Council. Its comments were also fully reflected in the proposal. It should be stressed that the deadline for transposition of the directive has already expired on 1 May 2021, and for this reason, infringement proceedings have already been initiated by the European Commission. For this reason, and in particular because the draft law now fully transposes the European directive, it is essential that the law becomes effective as soon as possible. It is therefore proposed that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic should agree with the proposal at first reading. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u3	Thank you, Minister. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, and this is Mr Petr Bendl. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I will be brief. I do not want to repeat what he said after the Minister, perhaps I will just stress that, given the time pressure we have, I support that, in the event that the House does not decide in the end, or if there is a blocking of negotiations at first reading, the bill should be discussed within as short a time as possible in order to avoid possible financial sanctions by the European Union. Otherwise, I support the proposal as it is put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u5	Thank you very much. I can now see that they are reporting - I am about to open a debate, I dare say, because we have had, the Minister and rapporteur introduced the bill to us - and at this point I am going to open a general debate in which we have many Members enrolled, but I give priority to the fact that the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová, is reporting. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur has already put forward here, I am going on behalf of two clubs, the ANO movement and the SPD movement, to file a veto on the negotiation of the law in the so-called accelerated procedure under Section 90. We think the standard is very complicated and requires a detailed debate. On the contrary, I think that the deadline should be extended, but I will, of course, only respond to specific proposals. This will also be followed by my fellow Members from the MP's club. So I give the veto on behalf of the club of the ANO movement and on behalf of the club of the SPD movement to discuss in an accelerated procedure pursuant to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u7	Yes, I advise this veto on the procedure under Section 90 para. 2 will therefore be discussed in a standard process. We are in a general debate. The first person to sign up is Mr Karel Tureček. Before he comes to the speaker's desk, I'd like to read one apology. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský, apologizes on 6 April from 11 to 12 o'clock for work reasons. So I will now ask Mr Karel Tureček to come to the speaker's desk and give him that word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to this very proposal for a law on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products. Therefore, I cannot share the optimism of both the Minister of Agriculture and the rapporteur, and I must say that the proposed amendment cannot only be defined as a transposition amendment to the Act on major market power. I'll give you a few reasons. I admit that at work level and ministerial level, the bill has already been discussed under our government, but I also want to stress that there has been a major change in December last year. I think that the Ministry of Agriculture also lost some control and influence on the law and that the final finalisation and the transposition of the relevant directive of the European Parliament took place in particular under the baton of the Trade and Tourism Union, and unfortunately it was not even in the Ministry of Agriculture, but it was rather under the direction of the Office for the Protection of Competition. That is what the Minister should listen to - I see he is discussing with the rapporteur. Minister, that is quite important, because the Ministry of Agriculture lost absolute control of the final version of the Act on major market power at that final stage. I would also like to stress that the proposed text of Section 3 in conjunction with the proposed text of Section 3a, which calculates the annual turnover, is a major problem. If the amendment passes in this text and is intended to ensure transposition, I must state that it will undoubtedly make the position of a number of companies operating in the agricultural and food chain worse. Once again, there is an upcoming food crisis, a food price crisis, an increase in high food prices, where we will virtually not avoid it. I've already said here that the price of gas has increased by 300, 400 %, the price of energy by 100, 200 %, the price of fertilizers by 300 to 400 %, and then it's the prices of other inputs, for example fuel by 50 %, and other price inputs represent 30 to 50 percent. This, of course, brings with it a food crisis and, of course, sooner or later, this increase will somehow be reflected in the price of food. [[11.30 hours]] Furthermore, what I want to underline is that the increased demand pressures for basic commodities, especially from the North African region, the Middle East, will practically increase prices, both help and may also cause failures or shortcomings in agricultural commodities. This is precisely why it is important to define this clearly, and in no way can this amendment of the law lead to a deterioration in the position of companies operating in the agricultural and food chains. This, I believe, is the primary task of the Minister of Agriculture himself, and from 1 July to the end of this year also the President of the Council of Agriculture Ministers, the head of the common agricultural policy, in particular to take care of the level playing field of agricultural and food subjects and to minimise the impact of the food crisis and the rise in food prices on social issues and, of course, on the people preferably the Czech Republic. I would also like to stress that, while the original intention was clearly the impact of the Act on significant food and trade regulation, particularly supermarkets, the definition of agricultural products was taken into this draft law in the final stage, namely cereals, oil, compound feed and similar, not only processed food, as was practically the original intention of the petitioner. This is what I think the Ministry of Agriculture is playing a little bit with fire in this regard when it comes to the biggest crisis in Europe in the commodity of cereals and oil, where Ukraine and Russia are likely to lose the possibility of exporting cereals and oilines all over the world. I just want to remind you that Ukraine is involved in this export of 15 million tonnes of cereals, which is twice the total production of cereals in the Czech Republic only on exports, and for oil, this applies to 5 million tonnes of sunflower. I would say there will be a major intervention in the market for this commodity. Food companies will often be in a position to negotiate equivalent conditions with raw material suppliers, let alone to apply unfair practices, despite their high turnover and thus their significant market power. Unfortunately, the practice will be completely different. I would like to remind you that in Slovakia, the transposition of the directive was dealt with by law No. 91/2019 Coll., on unfair business conditions in food trade. They have not taken into their law any zones with reference to the fact that unfair commercial practices will thus be prohibited in relation to all customers. This law thus protects all food suppliers in Slovakia, even suppliers in business chains. Paradoxically, suppliers in the Czech Republic will not be protected by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture, and in Slovakia. As far as prohibited unfair practices are concerned, they have a number of times more than we have in the Czech Republic, and more than the relevant European Union directives have already been listed, which, of course, does not conflict with the relevant directive. In practice, such a solution is more appropriate, as it is always better to have specific practices where it would not be difficult to import, whether any practice falls under a general clause of the type of negotiation or application of contractual conditions which create a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties. The Slovak law is more stringent in some respects than the directive itself, for example explicitly states that the maturity is 20 days from the delivery of the invoice, no later than 30 days from the delivery itself. It also provides that a maximum of 60 days may be required for the guaranteed price. I would also like to point out that some prohibited practices have mysteriously fallen out of the last-minute amendment, whose ban has proved appropriate and used in practice, such as the maximum period of guarantee of the price, when it was originally in the law on significant market power for a maximum of three months, do not appear in the amendment at all. I would like to stress that once again this is an example where the Ministry of Agriculture resigned from its responsibility, in particular the protection of agricultural and food production and, of course, consumer protection. First of all, the law goes to business chains. I believe that the Czech Republic cannot afford this in this situation. The highest priority is to protect the inhabitants of the Czech Republic from the negative effects of the upcoming food crisis, and in particular to hold the food price so as to be socially sustainable. I would also like to point out, and now I will just randomly quote a few amounts from the accounts of 2020, which are available, such as Tesco - 290 million, Albert - 1.7 billion CZK, Bill - 679 million CZK, Lidl - 2 billion CZK, Kaufland - 2,9 billion CZK. When it adds up, it is some amount around CZK 7.8 billion, and frankly, it is higher than the government of the Czech Republic puts in support in the area of national subsidies. So here there is a question as to why the Minister of Agriculture prefers and supports trade chains at the expense of primary agricultural production and food subjects who are important in this situation and, frankly, deserve more support, because I think that in the field of energy and food, the Czech Republic can better face the consequences of the crisis that occurred than, for example, in the area of gas supply and its alternatives. [[11.40 hours]] There are a lot of topics. On the other hand, I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution by the Agricultural Committee from the 6th meeting of 5 April 2022, when there was practical consensus, a resolution was adopted and, in paragraph 2, asks the Minister of Agriculture to present a proposal at the meeting of the Government of the Czech Republic to monitor the margins of trade chains. In this regard, I would also like to ask the Minister himself if he has any time limit, I would say an internal, personal time limit when he is ready to present this concept on the government and, in turn, on the agricultural committee. Otherwise, if the date isn't defined, I think it's a 30-day deadline, but I'm gonna ask the Minister of Agriculture to either confirm or disprove that assumption. Personally, I think it would be really good to introduce this model of trade chain margins not only to the government, but to try to implement it into this amendment, into this amendment of the law, of course, along with the amendment to the Price Act. I think it is important for the citizens of this country to, as I have pointed out, guarantee the government - and this must be said to be guaranteed by governments after 1990 - for all citizens of this country, whether it was the Čalfův administration or Klausův's, the socio-tolerable price of basic food. This government has not yet claimed responsibility and has not yet claimed responsibility. For this reason, if this resolution, which I have quoted, is to be taken seriously by the agricultural committee, and it is to be understood by farmers and food farmers that the government and the Minister of Agriculture themselves want to implement this resolution as quickly as possible, I propose that this proposal for a law on significant market power be returned to the petitioner for completion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u9	Thank you. I am calling on this proposal in the general debate. No one with a factual point is making a statement, so the next person who is enrolled in the general debate is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u10	Hello again, coworkers and colleagues, I've got notes here, I don't have the whole speech here, as some people here suspected last time, that I was reading everything. And even if I read everything, you don't read your speeches here? Somehow I didn't notice. Unlike others, I write my speeches, no one has to write them to me, because I always talk to what I do and what I understand. And I can also talk to this law because I have dealt with this law on significant market power for five years, and therefore I know the issue that is linked to this law, and I think that we know a lot about this with colleagues who have participated in joint negotiations. I'm speaking from my own practice, and I think I can give you adequate information. Of course, I didn't work on these questions alone, I worked with a number of colleagues from different political parties, some of them aren't even here anymore, but what I have to say is that on a regular basis all these activities took part in the law mainly by those who cared as much as I did. And I know who they were, because I have all of them signed on the ballots from all round tables, individual part-sessions and panel discussions, and there are signatures and there are entries. All these meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. I keep it all in storage, stored in the data folders, including the final record of compliance of the requirements of all those who participated. Yes, colleague, laugh... yes, I have a file on it, and it's probably because, colleague, I'm a Sign of the panna, and if you don't know, these signs like analysts, they like order and the system, and I... [[A voice from the diaper.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u11	I have to step in. Please, Members do not yell at each other if you wish to address a Member, through Madam President, and at the same time Members in the benches, so that they do not shout at anyone who is at the speaker's desk, or apply in factual terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u12	I'd just like to say to those laughing colleagues that, you know, she's paying off the systematics. Not right away, but it's really paying off. But I'd like to make a brief summary of the negotiations. So, during the 2014-2017 parliamentary term, a working group was set up to deal with issues and headings that were to be anchored in this law, and I was tasked with the leadership of this group. During that period, Minister Jurečka worked at the Ministry of Agriculture, and he participated in several meetings. During the next parliamentary period 2017 to 2021, I continued this work for Minister Toman. Countless round tables were organized, which were always attended by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Food Chamber, the Agrarian Chamber, and the round tables were often invited by representatives of other ministries, which were partially able to touch the law, and were involved in its work. It was the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, including control organisations dealing with supervision of compliance with the law on significant market power, which is, of course, the UOHS, the CAPI and the State Veterinary Administration. Each round table had specified topics that were the subject of the negotiations, and representatives of the professional unions and sometimes selected members of the unions were always invited to inform us of what their field needs, where they see possible correction in the lack of law. Countless working meetings and meetings were held, including the holding of four subcommittees for this topic, with outputs to the agricultural committee and two panel discussions. Unfortunately, I am an analyst and a conceptual person, but I have an opinion, and I think we could share it, that the law should always be spoken by those concerned by the law. The negotiations are to be held to identify the issue and, above all, to find solutions, to draw corrective measures, and for me, this means that such provisions will be put into law, which will regulate relations between stakeholders with an effort to remedy what the market itself cannot handle. Professional associations united under the Food Chamber, representatives of the Union of Trade and Tourism, Association of Czech Traditional Trade, individual chains, all of them familiarized us with their issues, but it was also a request for my colleagues and my colleagues to bring us a solution to remedy the imperfections of the law. Any criticism should bring a solution, otherwise it would actually be useless. And I think we've managed to achieve that. Several times, a system of evaluation of corrective actions has also changed to address problems affecting as many market participants as possible, which have brought about years of unsolved problem in relations between suppliers and customers, sellers and manufacturers. Thanks to all of these people, our colleagues and I have come to know in depth problems that have often not been related to the law on significant market power, but have certainly enriched us and have shown us what else would have to be solved, such as the Price Act, the Advertising Act and much more that violated good business morals. [[11.50 hours]] I would also like to mention the presentations of individual associations that were out of line with quality, and I would also like to thank all those who took part in these negotiations. For example, the Bakers' Union - they had an excellent presentation with an output for solutions, or the Fruit Union. I would certainly like to mention the Association of Czech Traditional Trade, because they surprised me by their representatives admitting shortcomings in negotiations on their part. And I really appreciate it because it's not easy to admit: Yes, I do wrong, I know it, but I may have nothing else to do. There was also negotiations with the chain and representatives of some chains convinced me that they are aware that their dealings with suppliers are not only harsh but are beyond the edge of commercial decency, and above all they are at the edge of the liquidity of their own suppliers. They do so because there is a struggle for survival among them, and some would welcome the proper regulation of the law. And these are what I want to consider to be decent businessmen, and I certainly don't claim that all transnational chains behave badly. That is why it is not true what Mr President of the Trade and Tourism Union, Tomáš Prouza, claims on this issue. I would certainly also like to mention the Ecumenical Society, which was a non-profit organisation that conducted investigations with the European Union subsidy programme on commercial practices, including the impact on suppliers, growers and breeders from third countries, where these unfair commercial practices have an impact last in line, and from which the economic and social committee also drew on the European Parliament. It was surprising for us that what is happening in the Czech Republic ultimately has an impact on the countries where the primary producers are. We had no idea how deep this issue was and where our food and agricultural resort and we got to, how deep a gap compared to other countries we kept between consumers, producers and producers and, above all, retailers digging up. For years, we have let our prime farmers, food farmers and producers, small traders, but also village shops be liquidated by multinational chains. We've had our suppliers' pricing destroyed. We have artificially kept citizens' awareness at unrealistic prices, and we do not lead them to think that by buying Czech food, they support the Treasury, from which we finance education, health care at the end of the day, and also contribute to homes for our older fellow citizens. And I have to say, unfortunately, we're doing it to this day. The law has been perfected. A lot of adjustments have been made, but it still turns out it's not enough. The law is weak. And I must also say that what has been liquidated for some time is going to be difficult to repair in a few months. Now the law on significant market power lies again, and we will not use it in five years' time, all my colleagues and people who have been around it, we will not use it, even though it destroys them in the harshest sense of the word, we will not use it, and we are presenting the law in the most deboned form I can say. And to me, ladies and gentlemen, it kind of feels like you're going to say, "We're just gonna do it so as not to say, we're not gonna meet the deadline for the transposition, and people, we're not gonna hold hands like somebody said." And I say, why not? When, other than now in a time of crisis, when we all see what is causing, how hard are we looking for every crown, and we miss it and will still miss it? So why don't we get into a dysfunctional environment? I'm asking what else has to happen in our country before it becomes clear that we have a tool in our hands that can help our people, our companies raise more money into the Treasury and at the same time level the non-functioning business relationships between suppliers and customers of our country? Most people realize that the war in Ukraine will fall on all sectors of the economy and on the food market as well. Even without the war in Ukraine, food was expected to be more expensive because a number of costs related to food production and production have been raised. The war in Ukraine will speed up and increase the price increase. In the first half of the year, we do not need to know so much, because the Minister of Agriculture certainly knows, through Madam President, that the seeds and fertilisers were purchased by farmers last year, so that their increased price did not, in my opinion, reflect on the increased current food prices. Here, only increased energy and fuel prices are reflected in this semester. The second half will only show us the quality of the crop, the lack of commodities, probably have to increase wages to the level of inflation, and the increased price of fertilizers and seeds for the next year will also start to project. And if there's really a shortage of energy, oil, gas, and there's some downtime, I'm afraid prices are going to rise very, very quickly. And if the government and we stand idly by with it, we'll grow rocket-powered. I don't know why we can't learn from history. Many of you admire our former statesman, Mr Masaryk, so let us see what measures were taken by the government at the time of the Great Depression. I was watching it. It could often be used even to this day. Or let's just learn from the neighbors. And why does our government still feel like everyone's doing it wrong, only they're doing it right? I understand that they may not want to respond to the opposition's proposals. But there are suggestions from professional organizations, from renowned economists, and you don't respond to them either. And I'd name it, you'll always find your "why not" on it. But the words "that's what we think, that's what we disagree with, that's what we're gonna do differently," that's not gonna help us. So, folks of the government, it's not gonna help all of us. I understand colleagues from ODS and Pirates want the market to regulate itself, that's what they've been saying all along, and I understand them. But people are not responsible, which is why their behavior and violations are regulated by a legal standard. Every law, everyone is regulation, including all decrees and regulations, these are all regulations. And let's say that we really make these laws to regulate, set the rules, and make sure that they are respected. We're checking because something's not working. And even this law is supposed to regulate what the market can't solve on its own. If it worked, it wouldn't be such a fuss, and those who scream the most, it's probably also going to hit them the most, and I think they probably also broke the most. And so, colleagues, let's see who pays expensive ads against this law, and we'll get an answer on who it is and who it was, and if we don't do anything, who it will be. So please, let us take advantage of the knowledge and outputs that almost everyone involved in the law, please including the Consumer Association. Your colleagues were also present. And let us insert, in the process of reworking the law, those wordings that will help partially remedy this long-term problem, which we call the unfair commercial practices of market participants with significant market power, and as suggested by Mr Karel Tureček, whom we can certainly consider as an agricultural expert who has also participated in almost all the negotiations around the law on significant market power. Colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u13	Thank you, too, Madame. Your speech raised one point of fact, and I ask that Mr Jan Bureš come to the speaker's desk. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm not even gonna use them. I wanted to apologize to my colleague, Mrs Balaštíková, for yelling at her and for laughing at her, but when I heard from the mouth of an ANO member of the movement that she was making a file on some of her colleagues, it seemed so absurd and to some extent ridiculous. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u15	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I see that this raised another factual point, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, and Jaroslav Faltýnek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u16	My colleague, I don't have a file on you. I have a file on the law on significant market power. But if you want, I'll file on you. růžový.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u17	Please - I would point out again if you are addressing Members, so you should address them through Madam President. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek is the next person to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I am listening quite closely to this whole debate and, in conclusion, I would also like to say a few words when my colleagues are done. But because I am listening to this in detail, my colleague Balaštíková really spoke about a dossier that relates to the history of this law, and I have the file in my head, so at the end allow me a few words of some short reminiscence, as this law has evolved and discussed over the last 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u19	Thank you for keeping time. No one else... And I see that Mr Jan Bureš has yet to comment on the facts. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u20	Thank you. I confess, Madam President, that for moments I feel like I'm in an absurd novel, because the Bures file definitely exists. [[There's laughter and applause from the right.]] To start another one, I don't know if it's the right procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u21	Thank you for keeping time. I do not make another factual point, and I note that we are in the general debate, and the other person who is applied for is Mr Oldřich Černý. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u22	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Government, once again, I will briefly speak for the SPD and, in a nutshell, I will state what is going on in this law. The Act on Market Power regulates the misuse of significant market power in connection with the purchase of food for resale in the Czech Republic or services related to the sale of food. This is also the case under this law that the abuse of significant market power, which has been carried out abroad, is assessed if its effects have occurred or may occur in the territory of the Czech Republic. A significant market power is such a position of the customer, as a result of which the customer may, without a fair reason, impose an advantage on suppliers in connection with the purchase of food or the receipt or provision of services related to the purchase or sale of food. Each customer has significant market power, whose turnover for the sale of food and related services exceeds 5 billion for the last 12 months completed. The Act on the significant market power of abuse of significant market power generally prohibits and further regulates the requirements of the contract between the supplier and the customer with this significant market power. While the aim of the directive is to approximate the laws of the Member States relating to unfair commercial practices in the agricultural and food chain, their definition, unification and their way of limiting them, we must not forget the Czech suppliers in particular. The main objective of the proposed bill is the complete transposition of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive between farms in the agricultural and food chain. Changes should be made in particular in the concept of so-called significant market power and the list of unfair commercial practices in the sale of agricultural products and food products. In the case of an adjustment relating to commercial contracts and certain unfair commercial practices, although the wording of this amendment of the Act has emerged, also from the incentives of supervisory authorities and professional associations, the SPD agrees with the previous speaker to re-establish the law. And if this return does not take place, we will submit an amendment to increase the share of Czech suppliers and companies and increase their protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u23	Thank you. I also greet you all with this, and I would like to ask for another one who is registered, and this is Mrs Balaštíková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u24	One more time, colleagues and colleagues. I have applied twice to make sure that one part, which is very important to me and is particularly important to the people covered by this law, does not fall into the speech, and that, when discussing the law on significant market power, margins in the food vertical should also be corrected and, in fact, the price law could be amended indirectly. And I'd just like to clarify that a little bit. Of course, everyone has the right to enter into business, to work on the business market, to participate in their own implementation, but if a group is artificially favoured and usurps a privileged position at the expense of others, it destroys, of course, the economy and, in turn, trade relations. And I think that we should intervene, of course we Members and also the government. And I would take the liberty of setting a small, very small example. Of course, the primary manufacturer is involved in food production at the bottom. He has some costs and at least, in very few cases, should sell at cost. He should always have a minimum margin for that cost. This margin, of course, serves to pay part of this margin as income tax on natural or legal persons. And if we sell at equal costs and the margins aren't there, of course, we get zero in the Treasury. Then we have processors. He also has some expenses and should have a minimum margin there. And we're gonna get some financials from that margin, just like the first producer. But if we get zero again, that's the second zero in the state budget. It's lucky that zero doesn't multiply so much, and we have two zeros, but it's still one zero. Well, business, of course, has its costs, he'll have a margin, he'll give the margin the highest of all the participants. He'll take the state out of it, maybe even more than we could get from the ones below, but what's going on? Of course, I suppose, artificially reduces the tax base to take the state as little as possible, but what happens is that it actually destroys everyone below. And I want to ask all of us if that's what we want, if the margin adjustment in the production vertical should not be part of this law and we should not regulate other relevant laws and try to balance this situation. All those involved in this process should at least have the costs paid and should be able to make a reasonable margin. They should hand something over through state taxes, and they should be left with something for innovation, repair and development. And if this isn't happening, and we're not gonna do anything, and we're gonna pretend everything's okay, then we can't be surprised that we're still gonna be looking at one big loser from the Treasury. And after this adjustment, representatives of primary producers, processors, and traders called a long time ago. He can't make a deal, and I'm putting it here as a suggestion that we can't actually get together and work on this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u25	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Kott is the next and so far the last candidate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I have divided my performance into two parts. The first part concerns the transposition of the Government's bill as such, and in the second part I will try to explain and explain to you why this protection will not affect some food suppliers into chain stores and what unfair practices we will actually erase. [[12.10 hours]] So the first part, essentially the transposition of the directive in the form of a government draft amendment to Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on the significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products, in the proposed form is a dangerous option, which in my opinion means the following problems: no company in the position of supplier will enjoy protection against unfair commercial practices if together with the turnover of connected persons exceeds the limit of 350 million euro when it is in the position of a significant market power entity. This will be particularly evident in the relations of food companies in relation to business chains. To date, the law has been designed to cover only the so-called last section of the agricultural and food chain, i.e. to take food into the mentioned chain of trade. On the contrary, the proposal does not contain - contrary to the current law - a rebuttable legal presumption in order to demonstrate that, in view of the market situation, the customer no longer has significant market power. A significant market power will no longer be such a position of the customer, as a result of which the customer can impose without a fair reason an advantage on suppliers in connection with the purchase of food. The buyer or supplier will have significant market power derived only from turnover. In practice, this will mean for all companies in the agricultural and food chain that, if turnover bands are maintained, any company that exceeds the turnover criteria will have to have a turnover calculated with connected persons when negotiating the contract, that is, the proposal does not show for which products the turnover would be achieved, in conjunction with the fact that in 3a par. 14 It is stipulated that the customer and supplier shall provide each other with information on the amount of their annual turnover when negotiating the contract upon request of the other Contracting Party. This will certainly cause considerable trouble. Strictly followed in accordance with the proposal, each customer should divide its supplier by turnover band and determine whether it is in the position of a customer with significant market power or not. In practice, there will also have to be a revision of all contracts by undertakings operating in the agricultural and food chain, because the amendment to the Act on Market Power requires a written contract for the supply of agricultural and food products and must have certain elements such as the price, the amount of the discount on the price or the method of its determination, the maturity must not be longer than 30 days from the date of delivery of the invoice, the specification of the purchase action, if agreed. The mechanical takeover of unfair commercial practices from the Directive may cause difficulties in applying to agricultural holdings, since trade in agricultural commodities is subject to rules other than the sale of food products to the commercial network for the purpose of selling them to consumers. Perhaps it would be a good idea to divide unfair commercial practices into two groups - such as those prohibited when delivering to chains and those that could only occur on farms. It should also be assumed that the supervision of compliance with the amendment to the Act on Market Power is entrusted to the Office for the Protection of Competition and significant penalties are laid down for non-compliance. In the case of a significant market power, the Authority has similar powers as in Law No. 143/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Competition. In the extreme case, this means that although unfair commercial practices will not actually be used, the IOHS will save any, even the constructed complaint and sanctions can be up to 10 million or 10 percent of the net turnover, which is, of course, the amount of liquidation. If I were to modify the government's proposal in any way, it should not contain turnover bands. Since the argument that unfair commercial practices should be prohibited regardless of the turnover achieved, this is without further conditions, the practices listed would be prohibited. This would also affect agricultural holdings, but it would also remain in the game as well as our quoted business chains, for which the law on significant force was actually being amended. By removing the bands, the senseless calculation of turnover would also fall away in order to determine whether the turnover of 350 million euro has been achieved. It might also help to introduce another turnover band, essentially by transferring the existing law, where it would be built that a customer with significant market power is always a customer or an alliance of customers regardless of the turnover achieved, which purchases food for resale or accepts or provides services related to the purchase of food. The appropriate wording could be achieved by the fact that the proposal has at least landed on the business chains. This is one zone that would affect unfair trade practices in supply to chains, i.e. would protect large suppliers who do not have sufficient bargaining power...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u27	I'm going to interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm going to ask everyone present in the room to keep their voice down. Thank you very much. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u28	Thank you, Mr President. This means that, in essence, we would also help large suppliers who do not have the bargaining power to defend themselves from unfair commercial practices. This would correspond to the situation in the Czech Republic where suppliers do not have their own distribution channels and are therefore more dependent on supply to chains. And now I'll take the second part of my contribution...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u29	I'm going to interrupt you again, and again I'm asking everyone present in the hall to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u30	I understand that most colleagues have not been here, and now they have returned to something that is taken out of context, but I will also take the liberty of expressing my opinion on the protection and/or non-protection of certain food suppliers to trade chains against unfair business practices. First, as a result of the transposition of Directive No 2019/633 on unfair commercial practices in the agricultural and food chain, some suppliers have completely lost protection against unfair commercial practices, unlike the existing Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products. In particular, they are suppliers of food products into chain stores. The existing law provided protection for all suppliers. Now the government's proposal to amend this law no longer envisages the protection of large suppliers as a result of the ceiling on the protection of suppliers on the annual turnover of 350 million euro. The turnover is calculated for the whole group of connected persons, regardless of whether the turnover has been achieved by selling food or others, even from foodstuffs totally diametrically different products, even if the turnover has been achieved on other geographic markets. This means that basically interconnection is counted throughout the European Union. [[12.20 hours]] Commission Recommendation 2000/361/EC of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, Official Journal L124 of 20. 5. 2003 on page 36: Protection is also lost by suppliers who have reached the turnover of EUR 350 million at the current exchange rate, i.e. 8 652 750 000 Czech crowns. Also in the directive, the protection of suppliers is under threat, but the directive works in the ban on unfair commercial practices with the concept of negotiating power, that is the strength in a particular relationship between the buyer and the supplier. Moreover, by being unilaterally forced by one trading partner to another by such prohibited commercial practices, they may place an unjustified and disproportionate transfer of economic risk from one trading partner to another or create a significant imbalance between the rights and obligations of one trading partner. According to this Directive, customers with significant market power vis-à-vis their suppliers are divided into several zones starting with customers with a turnover exceeding EUR 2 million and ending with the previously mentioned EUR 350 million. The directive is based on the fact that unfair practices are applied by a larger entity against a smaller one. The Directive applies to unfair commercial practices involving the sale of agricultural products and food products and these are prohibited by the Directive. However, the directive also envisages that certain practices, although contrary to fair trade, are prohibited, but only under the terms of the bilateral agreement of the Contracting Parties. Furthermore, the problem is that the amendment to the Act on major market power continues to work with the concept of significant market power, unlike the directive which works with the concept of so-called negotiating power. The directive is based on the fact that larger bodies have greater bargaining power, that they do not need protection from entities of a certain size that are vulnerable. Therefore, the Directive sets out the categories of entities, on the basis of the turnover already mentioned. Almost everything was taken from the directive into the amendment to the Act on Market Power, except that the amendment proposal is linked to a certain turnover of the customer towards a certain turnover of the supplier. This means, however, a customer with a turnover exceeding EUR 350 million must fear being affected by unfair commercial practices against its suppliers with a turnover greater than EUR 350 million because it assumes that a customer with a turnover exceeding EUR 350 million is able to resist unfair commercial practices due to its negotiating power. This does not correspond to reality in the Czech Republic. Suppliers who are part of the agricultural and food chain are unable to defend themselves against unfair commercial practices, for one simple reason that the trade chains are the main distribution channel for them, which they are not able to replace, because we simply do not have other sales points in the Czech Republic. The bargaining force is therefore clearly on the customer's side despite the turnover achieved. In terms of the Czech Republic, therefore, unfortunately, protection has ceased to exist in relation to business chains, and the amendment to the Act on major market power will thus allow the application of certain unfair commercial practices by business chains towards suppliers whose annual turnover exceeds the already mentioned 350 million euro. Unlike Slovakia, where they have Act No. 91/2019, the Non-Prime Minister Act in the Food Trade, according to which protection will be obtained against unfair commercial practices to all entities. Paradoxically the same entity, which supplies agricultural or food products to the trade chain in the Czech Republic, will not be protected and in Slovakia they have simply earned the protection and will have it. And it is also important to realise that the amendment will now fall on agricultural holdings as a customer with significant market power, as well as on the alliance of customers. The amendment to the Act on Market Power refers, when defining the concept of agricultural products and food products to the list in Annex 1 to the TFEU, to the list of products whose production, processing and marketing fall within the area of the common agricultural policy. This list then includes, for example, live animals, cereals, oil seeds, oleaginous fruits, but paradoxically straw, fodder, wine from fresh grapes. All those who trade these products will have to determine, according to the turnover achieved, whether they are a customer with significant market power and will have to fulfil the obligations arising from the amendment to the Act on Major Market Power. In the event of non-compliance, there is a significant penalty, as I have already said here, of 10 million or up to 10 percent of the total turnover. Following what my colleague Karel Tureček has said here - that is the harder one, he wants to return the law to the translator's work - I believe that this law really needs to be subject to an even significant debate, and I therefore allow myself to propose an extension of the time for committee discussions by 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another party to the debate is Mr Feranec, but I have seen the factual comment of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u32	Mr President, I just wanted to formally propose a reduction in the deadline for discussion to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u33	So we have a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days and extend it by 20 days. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, just a few comments on this law. Maybe I'll start with this - this is where it's proposed to return or shorten the deadlines. I support this return and for one quite important reason. If you have read the explanatory report on this law, there has been no impact control, the so-called RIA. Yes, there was some decision by the previous government, but there was supposed to be a clean transposition. But this is not a pure transposition. How many subjects does that affect? That's not a few dozen big companies, smaller companies, that's tens of thousands. How many agricultural entities are there? Twenty-five, thirty thousand, plus minus, and it touches everyone, small, large. So even because there is no RIA, which is really very important, if we want to regulate a large part of the sector, it really should be there. So in that sense, I would support the motion to return. And now, in fact, what's wrong with the law. I'm really just gonna cut it short, so we understand. It removes a certain part of food and agricultural entities from the protection against unfair practices, excluding them, and purely on the basis of turnover or sales. The mechanical takeover of the amount of sales or turnover and therefore the market power is illogical. If this were the case, I would understand, if it were the market power, in the given turnover from the given commodity, but that is all of the activities, including connected companies, partner companies and so on. In other words, if I have a big engineering firm and I have vineyards, orchards, which usually happens, I'm a big company and I'm unlucky to go to the supermarket. So really, these chains will actually have a higher negotiating power because they will not be restricted by anything. And I think it went against the meaning of the original law. [[12.30 hours]] Another thing, it'll cause an increase in administration. I repeat again, twenty-five thousand plus minus agricultural entities, but even the little ones will have to - a) have to be a written form of contract, there must be other requirements, there will be a turnover of each given company, and what if they do not provide it because they say what is after my turnover if I am a farmer? So can we ask ourselves a question, the law of Roman law, qui bono? Whose benefit is this amendment? Well, he's in favor of the chain of commerce, he's pretty logically in favor of them. By dispersing the control...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-004-009.u35	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I have to interrupt you, because the next point is scheduled for exactly 12:30, firmly placed, so I hereby interrupt this point. I note that the general debate has not yet been concluded, and after we have finished the next point, we will return to this point. And now I would like to say, or I will say, that the next point will be
