ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all to the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to re-engage with your identification cards, or to tell me who will vote with the replacement card, as Mrs Pastuchová has already done, who will vote with card number 27. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a draft agenda for the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 12 August of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 15 August 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you to keep your voice down, because we will proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Petr Vrána and Members of Pavel Žáček. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I see no other proposal, which is why I will begin voting on the verifiers of this meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 1, 129 Members and Members were enrolled, for 126, against none, and I note that we have appointed MEPs Petr Vrána and Mr Pavel Žáček as verifiers of the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that until the beginning of the meeting they have asked to excuse their entire absence from the negotiations by the following Members: Babišová Andrea for family reasons, Babka Ondřej for family reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav for the entire meeting day due to foreign travel, Černýý Oldřich for the entire meeting day due to medical Radek, Dražilová Lenka for the whole meeting day due to family reasons, Exner Martin for the whole discussion day - family Lubomír, Fialová Eva until 10.30 for health Vojtěch, Fridrich Stanislav for the Navrátil Jiří due to family Vildumetzová, Helebrant Tomáš for the whole meeting Jana due to foreign travel, Janulík Miloslav for the whole Michaela due to family reasons, Kettner Zdeněk from 9.15 to 11.15 for the entire meeting day for the whole working day, Šebelová Ivana from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Kubíček Roman for the whole day for František of foreign travel, Petrtýl family Renata, from the whole day of the sitting for the Wenzl Milan of the sitting, from the meeting Josef of the sitting for the whole day of the sitting for the sitting for the whole family. From the members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš for the whole day for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan for the whole day for working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk also for working reasons throughout the day, Síkela Jozef all day for personal reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk all day for personal reasons, Šalomoun Michal for personal reasons, also for the whole day. Mr Tomáš Helebrant cancels his apology, which was just loaded. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 33rd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Madame Members, I will ask you once again to calm down, we will now proceed to the speeches of those who have applied with a proposal for changes to the programme. There's a lot of entries here, and they're getting bigger and bigger. So, first in line is Mr Andrej Babiš, followed by Mrs Klára Dostálová, who was first registered in writing. I ask you first, Mr Babiš, and I ask the rest of you once again to keep your conversations quiet, to move to the lobby... I'm gonna ask you to keep it down. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u2	So good morning, honourable Members. I propose to include a new item on the agenda of this meeting entitled How Organized Crime Puts Its Person As Director of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, as the first item in today's meeting. It is therefore the appointment of Petr Mlejnek as Director of the ÚZSI Minister of the Interior and the first Vice-President of the Government Vít Rakušan. Although we are facing an unprecedented energy crisis, which this government, through its incompetence and chaos, only increases and deepens, the situation in our intelligence is so serious that we need to address it here. I remind you that the House has already met twice because of the Austrian movement's scandals. It was the first time at an emergency meeting on January 13, entitled Explanation of the origin of STAN's financing money from abroad and the last time at an emergency meeting on July 7 entitled Organized Crime of the STAN movement. Of course, without a result, without any reflection, and neither of these meetings has been approved. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Let's review the events of the last few weeks. On 8 July, Mr Rakušan appoints Mr Mlejnka as Director of the ÚZSI, with the sanctification of Prime Minister Fiala and other ministers. That is, at a time when STAN has been shaking corruption scandal of unprecedented proportions for about three weeks due to the planned tunnelling of Prague's Transport Company by Mr Hlubuček and Mr Redl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but there really is a high level of noise, which is why I'm asking you once more to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u4	They will immediately be in custody because of their organized crime group, along with other people. We will learn from the media about Mr. Redl that he was the right hand of the Krejčíř gangster and that at the turn of the millennium he would probably have been convicted of hundreds of million-dollar frauds, without a medical opinion that he was seriously mentally ill and partly incompetent. Thanks to this, Mr Redl has been able to escape justice for the past 20 years, make a happy business, tunnel state companies, and distribute money for bribes, including sponsorship donations for his STAN. In the paper, we can read how Zlin's businessman Redl became the grey Eminence of the Mayors and Independents, who apparently ran the movement for years. [[9.10 hours]] Since Redl mafia structures lead directly to STAN's highest leadership, Mr. Rakušan is starting to fight for his political survival. As a solid- character politician, he's sacrificing all those who had something to do with Redl just so he doesn't have to pull himself out of the government. So because of intimate contacts with Redl and his group, the Education Minister Petr Gazdík ends up in government with his encrypted phone. After Gazdík, the director of the Czech Post Roman Knap, who was guilty of meeting with Redl at a meeting, not planned, at a meeting. Mr. Rakušan said at the time - I quote: "I will not tolerate any contact with this man. At that moment fall to whom?" Even one function, of course the unpaid one, was composed by a state milking specialist and Siamese twin, Mr Redl Euro MP Polčák. And in this situation, imagine that you, as head of STAN and Home Secretary, will be approached by a person to be appointed as head of intelligence, and he will confess to you that he not only knows Redl, but that he has been seeing him regularly for ten years and doing business. And you, as a solid- character politician, bringing about a new political culture, will do what? You will behave according to the principle of falling to whom and you will tell the person that nothing is going on. Yes, that's ironic. You won't mention it to the other ministers and the Prime Minister, and you will name your candidate as head of intelligence without hesitation. And when the media finds out, you start squirming and saying different things all the time until everyone's embarrassed about it. I think it's worth the whole affair going through first things first. When the scandal broke out at the beginning, Mr. Rakušan said that Mlejnek's contacts with Redl did not bother him because it was a work relationship and Mlejnek met Redl as a civilian person. As a trump card, Mr. Rakušan pulled out that Mr. Mlejnek has a security clearance of the NBU to a level classified, which is said to be a sufficient guarantee. When it began to get tough, Mr. Rakušan hurried to claim that he had received positive references to Mr. Mlejnek from two military intelligence officers whose names were burned down like an elephant in porcelain. But it turns out that neither of the rapporteurs gave any recommendation to Mr Rakušan. So the Minister of the Interior rushed to claim that Mr Mlejnek had given him contacts with people who provided positive references about Mr Mlejnek. Under pressure, Mr. Rakušan admitted that he hadn't spoken to anyone, but he saw some text messages on Mr. Mlejnek's phone and that he also received a recommendation from Vice-President of the House for Mr. Bartošek's KDU-ČSL. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] In any case, Rakušanův's dialects and contradictory statements had already become so embarrassed by the government that Prime Minister Fiala had to become interested in the appointment of Mlejnek, of course only after he returned from his holiday on the Croatian Riviera. So the result was to be expected. The government found no reason for Mlejnkův's appeal because it found that it played a positive role in clarifying the corruption case of the Dozimeter. When Chief Attorney General Bradáčová said she knew absolutely nothing about Mr Mlejnek's positive role, Prime Minister Fiala explained the next day that the positive role was beyond criminal proceedings. We learned from the media that Mr. Mlejnek convinced the government by bringing a solemn statement to the ministers from one of the Witnesses in the Dosimeter affair, Mr. Zdeněk, who was advised to contact the police. Wonderful!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u5	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but there's really a lot of noise. And once again, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to keep your conversations down or move to the lobby. This applies throughout the entire hall to all clubs, colleagues and colleagues, so that the Member may continue undisturbed. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. Yes, even this version already has cracks, because the witness in question never turned to the police. For example, he did not file a criminal complaint, but instead the police found him themselves. So how do we make a career in Mr. Petr Fiala's government? Just text messages on your phone and recommendations from a coalition partner, and when there are serious doubts, you just have to bring an honest statement. In the meantime, we learned from the media a lot of other juicies, such as Mr Mlejnek and Mr Redl saying that Mr Mlejnek should have been a person for Redlův's group with reach to the security community and that he should have been nicknamed Colonel, that Mr Mlejnek told the Prime Minister and Minister that he knew five people in the Dozimeter affair. It was also very interesting to note that Mr Mlejnek's wife, who taught English at primary school and had never had anything to do with security technology, had until 28 June this year a share in Dyn Tedes, a company that deals with the sale of wiretapping jammers and whose executive is expolicist Vokál, convicted of leaking information from police files, with Mr Vokál, with whom Mr Mlejnek personally knows, as he confirmed to the media. By the way, another co-owner of Dyn Tedes is, according to the media, Roman Danda, a manager and co-owner of the Slovak Techniserv branch, a company in which he has worked as manager for Mr Mlejnek for about ten years. Unfortunately, everything about Mr Mlejnek raises doubts. His resume tells us that he left the army in 2010. From 2010 to 2011, he worked as a business manager at Škoda Transportation, coincidentally at a time when the company paid billions on dividends to its owners hidden in the web of tax havens. From Škoda Transportation went Mr Mlejnek to Techniserv, which supplies and installs technological systems and frequently applies for state contracts, companies where three high-ranking managers were finally convicted of bribery this February. Let me just remind you of an article from May 17, 2016: Detectives intervene in the building of the Prague company Techniserv. And according to the EURO server, police arrested ex-Deputy Secretary of Defense Vondra and former MP for ODS Michael Hrbata. That's the Techniserv. So almost the whole time, Mr Mlejnek worked there until this year as Director of Strategic Development and Economics. Almost the whole time Mr. Mlejnek was a manager at Techniserv, he regularly met with Mr. Redl at business meetings. He told the media that as a businessman, he demanded contracts. The result? I didn't get a contract through it, says Mr. Mlejnek. I do not know how you, honourable Members, but I do not think so. Mr. Mlejnek at Mr. Redl's asked for contracts, and none of it is. A normal businessman would no longer be wasting time with the person concerned after three or four meetings, but Mr. Mlejnek met Mr. Redl regularly for ten years in the hope of getting a contract. Interesting. And all this time, the former military intelligence has no idea who he's dealing with, namely that Redl is the former right-hand man of Radovan Krejčíř and a tunneling specialist and a tax-dealing officer who is a court-martially recognized as inconvenient. So someone can really believe that? I think the explanation is much more prosaic. First of all, Mr. Mlejnek knew very well who he was seeing. And secondly, it was never about any contracts, because Mr. Mlejnek, the code name plukovník, and Mr. Redl, the code name myšák, they were talking about something completely different. But it's completely different. We can speculate that they've been talking lately about how they're gonna help each other when Redl gets Mlejnek to be head of the UZSI through Rakušan. Mr. Rakušan's claim that Mr. Mlejnek is trustworthy because he has received a security clearance from the NSA, too, will not hold up. First of all, it's a background check that's four years old. Secondly, Mr Mlejnek himself said that he did not admit his contacts with Mr Redl. And thirdly, apparently, he's only been through basic security screening, which means checking to see if he's going through a criminal record or a criminal record. He didn't even have a background check on the secret services that would have stripped him and his entire family of their nakedness. But, above all, Mr. Mlejnek does not have the highest level of security clearance. Does that mean that the head of Czech intelligence will walk behind the door if his subordinates discuss matters in a top secret regime? Is that really how it's gonna be? Who in the UZSI will the foreign partners talk to if Mr Mlejnek is not possible? And the highlight of absurdity is the fact that Mlejnkův's subordinates are now going to investigate him and decide whether or not he's going to get clearance. And please it will take up to ten months. [[9.20 hours]] So let me get this straight. Mr. Rakušan appoints a man who's been out of the field for ten years as head of intelligence. A man who's known Redl for years. A person who apparently had a share in the company supplying wiretapping jammers through his wife, coincidentally the technology used by Redlův and Hlubučkův criminal group in Prague. Coincidentally, the firm's executive is an expolist convicted of leaking information. Mr. Rakušan appoints a man in charge of intelligence who does not have the necessary qualifications in the form of top-secret clearance. A guy who's gonna have to wait almost another year for his background check. A man whose face everyone knows and who is now known where he lives. A man who, with his mere presence today, is dragging the whole Czech intelligence to the bottom. For what reason does the Minister of the Interior so vehemently cling to Mr Mlejnek, when even pro-government, pro-government journalists, anti-Babish, write that his position in the leadership of the UZSI is completely unsustainable and must end? Is it because he expects Mr Mlejnek to be grateful and fulfill his assignment? Is it because Rakušan want to abuse intelligence in political warfare, as they probably do, and I know something about the Šuman Web, Mr. Chovanec? [[Did you?]] Or does Mr. Mlejnek know something about Rakušan, and he's afraid of him? Or is Mr. Rakušan really just a puppet following someone else's orders? And his career stands and falls with Mr Mlejnek? There are a number of possibilities. And none of them are good. But the main question is, why is it all approved by Prime Minister Fiala, who is at any moment engulfed in political culture, morals and values? Why is the Prime Minister threatening the security and reputation of his own country? Is that really the only interest Petr Prime Minister Fiala's government? Every judge knows that Mr. Mlejnek and Mr. Rakušan must end. If neither of them are capable of doing so, Prime Minister Fiala should intervene. Finally, he could prove to the public that he can stomp on himself, that he is not such a weak prime minister and that his words about political culture and values are not just floscule, but something that he really means. So that's the first point. Furthermore, I propose to include a new item on the agenda of this meeting entitled State in Czech Health as the second item on today's agenda. The current government coalition threw Czech health care, patients, doctors and nurses overboard. It brings about a change in health care and provision of affordable and quality health care is not a priority for it. The current government coalition damages and destabilizes health to such an extent and in such an irresponsible and short-sighted way as no previous government has ever done in the country's revolutionary history. The fact that the current government and the Minister of Health have no health management strategy, they have not presented any concept of health care development, they have not solved current problems, they have done nothing at all, and apparently they have no idea what they should do is a sad reality. Since December, yes, December 17, when they took over the government, so unfortunately they have also begun to implement the steps that lead to the disruption of the financing of Czech health care, they have actively damaged and destabilized Czech health care. This threatens not only the current level of availability of health care and the economic stability of health service providers and health insurance companies, but undermines the future and development of Czech health care and patients' access to treatment. It is irrelevant whether these steps are taken by the government coalition because the government is incompetent, irresponsible, antisocial or stupid. The consequences of their irresponsible behaviour are so serious and threatening the stability, quality and availability of care for patients in the Czech Republic that it is necessary to prevent this. The destabilization and volatility of a functioning health system has serious social impacts that can damage patients' access to health services and the future prosperity of our country. Health is a key value and each government's priority should be to ensure citizens' access to affordable and high-quality healthcare. The health situation of the population, through employment, lower morbidity and productivity, has a direct link to the economic performance of the country, contributes to the well-being of the population and economic growth. Stable financing of healthcare with sufficient coverage of health services ensures equal access to healthcare regardless of socio-economic background. In the Czech health care sector, identical medical procedures, instruments, materials and medicines are used in the provision of health care as in other developed countries, and the costs are the same. However, these countries spend much more money on health as well as on their share of GDP. If we want to continue to maintain and improve the current level of availability and quality of healthcare, we must maintain a stable level of funding. We cannot save on it, and we cannot damage and weaken it by misguided political intervention. The claim that health care can work without sufficient and stable funding is nonsense. Quality and affordable health care is not free. The claim that 14 billion health care done will not be missed is nonsense and untrue. Fourteen billion in health care for illustration, for example, represent annual expenditure on dental care for all citizens of the Czech Republic or half the annual expenditure on medication for all patients treated in specialised centres where serious diseases such as oncological, multiple sclerosis, cystic fibrosis and so on are being treated. Or a year's worth of treatment for all patients in 16 county hospitals. Or a year's worth of the largest hospital in the country, Motol University Hospital. Or four-year medical expenses. Or spending five years on all treated patients in home care or rehabilitation care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u7	Again, I'm sorry, but the noise has gone up again. I therefore ask for the silence of the Member (s) present, or for them to move into the lobby. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. What health care is to be reduced or stopped by the government's proposed health care money? That should be justified by the Minister of Finance, or by health care. Let this government openly admit to patients and health professionals that health, public health, citizens and a functioning health system are not important to it. That it is not a priority that he wants to take money from health care and use it elsewhere and that healthcare and patient access to treatment will be fundamentally worse due to this step. The reduced income of health insurance deprived of the government of the 14 billion would not be enough to cover the expenses for reimbursement of care in 2022. Healthily insurance plans of health insurance companies for 2022 are already set as deficit. The planned revenue is 433 billion, below the planned expenditure of 442 billion. However, the government does not understand that, in the current year, health insurance does not only cover the cost of health care in the current year 2022, but also pays the health service providers the financial charges and billing of already provided health services for the previous year 2021. The payments to providers of health services for the already provided and declared health care in the year 2021 represent the cost of a further tens of billions. The claim that the current insurance reserves are sufficient to cover all the necessary health expenses and that the implementation of the 14 billion will not weaken and damage the system is nonsense and consciously false. Of course, the withdrawal of 14 billion from health care and the lack of resources will have negative consequences, and of course, patients and health professionals will pay for it. [[9.30 hours]] For many years, Czech health spending per capita was low in the OECD's international comparison, around 7 per cent per capita relative to GDP. Many previous governments tried to save money on health care, did not solve problems, passed responsibility on to health service providers, did not solve availability, indebted the system and did not increase insurance premiums for state insured people, these are professionally inactive citizens, pensioners, children and unemployed people. The difference between how many insurance premiums for the solidarity budget of public insurance are paid on an active basis and the amount of insurance for non-active state insured persons, pensioners, unemployed and children has increased. The underfinancing of health has caused many problems, economic problems of providers, stagnation, weakening the health system, long waiting periods and often real inaccessibility of health care. In our government, health has become a priority and there has been a change, a major improvement in funding and conditions for the functioning and development of health care. After years, underfunded Czech health care finally took a breath and got conditions for stable functioning and development. In our government, we have finally achieved the level of health spending on the OECD and the European Commission and other institutions recommended by the 10% share of expenditure on GDP. Our government increased the revenues of the Czech health care budget, public health insurance, by CZK 150 billion. Compared to the income of the health system in 2017, when it was 284.8 billion, our government repeatedly increased it to 433.2 billion in 2022. Our government has added an additional CZK 75 billion to the health insurance budget each year for health care insurance, which means a professionally inactive insured person, pensioners, unemployed and children. In principle, we increased the insurance policy for state insured persons from the original amount in 2017 920 CZK per month to CZK 1 967 in 2022, i.e. more than twice that. Our government has implemented a substantial increase in insurance premiums since June 2020, when we increased our premiums by 500 CZK from CZK 1 067 to CZK 1,567. Then again from 1 January 2021 by another 200 crowns to 1,762 crowns. And once again, the last increase in our government, since 1 January 2022, we have increased insurance premiums for state insured persons by another CZK 200 to a still valid amount of CZK 1 967 a month. Health has always been a clear priority for our government, and we wanted to ensure that even the fall in income and extraordinary expenditure caused by the covid pandemic does not endanger and reduce the scope, quality and availability of health care. Health had enough resources to ensure patients' needs and further development. These steps taken by our government to ensure a sufficient and additional income of the health budget from increased insurance premiums for state insured persons enabled the stabilization of health care provision, increased availability, improved patient quality and access to care, and also stabilized health insurance budgets. Without our government's increase in insurance premiums for state insurance companies, health insurance companies would no longer have any reserves to cover health care. Our government has brought and responsibly implemented a new, modern, conceptual and systematic health policy. Health care for people, health care focused on the patient, where the patient comes first and the health system is set according to the needs of patients. She started systematically solving years of accumulated and unsolved problems, setting up a strategy for stabilization, development and support of Czech health care, which brought clear results. We have managed to change the Czech health system so that the patient is the first priority, so that the patient's approach to treatment and availability of the quality of health services, health care according to professional medical recommendations is sufficient, volume and availability. The modern health system of the 21st century, which can be compared to the best health systems in Europe and the world. Yes, we set that up, that's what we planned, that's what we built. We have ensured that, at this top level, the quality and availability of health care, the Czech health services have sufficient resources to ensure that funding is not a barrier to patients' access to treatment, as was done in previous governments. We have incorporated a medical professional company in the decision-making process so that health care can be provided according to professional advice. We have allowed health insurance companies to start fulfilling their legally defined role, to be active and to provide patients with affordable and quality health care. We supported a transparent system of setting up payments in the arguing management of health insurance companies and health service providers. Four years in a row, health insurance companies and providers' representatives agreed to set up payments. We drove out lobbyists and brought back negotiations on payments to legal standards, i.e. without the influence of politicians and various godfathers. The decrees issued under our government can be classified as groundbreaking. They were based on agreements between health service providers and health insurance companies. In the payments, emphasis was placed on the quality and effectiveness of health care, longer office hours, emphasis on prevention, admission of new patients to care, new performances, support of care in less accessible regions and so on. We have put into practice a new system of CZ-DRG guaranteeing fairer remuneration for hospitals and eliminating the difference in payments between them. All segments of health service providers - hospitals, practical doctors, dentists, outpatient specialists, paramedics, home care, gynecologists and so on - have finally received increased remuneration and conditions for development, even in two complicated covido years. During our government there was a substantial increase in the income of all groups of health service providers from the original 275.3 billion in 2017 to the planned 442 in 2022. We deliberately invested huge funds in health care and made sure that the providers received all the medical care they provided patients with so-called overproduction, which significantly increased the availability of healthcare and improved the economic stability of health service providers. We have fundamentally improved access to planned performances, such as orthopaedic surgery, cardiological. We shortened the waiting time and ensured treatment of a much larger number of patients. We expanded the number and availability of diagnostic devices and shortened the waiting time for diagnostic tests for magnetic resonance imaging, CT and so on. We have repeatedly increased the salaries of paramedics, doctors, nurses, paramedics and other paramedics to receive a dignified reward for qualified care for patients. Qualified workers began to return to health care. The number of nurses and doctors began to increase. Yet there is still a shortage in many regions, and missing doctors and nurses are an essential factor affecting the availability and development of healthcare. As the first government, we have faced one of the biggest problems in health care, the shortcomings of health professionals and their lack of evaluation. We systematically managed to stabilize it and gradually reverse the negative trend. The salaries were systematically increased throughout the period by doctors taking over CZK 101,000, more than 2.7 times the average wage in 2021, and nurses taking over CZK 58 200 a month, i.e. 1.6 times the average wage. In 2013, when traditional parties ruled, doctors took 59,000 and nurses only 28 388 crowns a month. And when we started, our government, it was 72 897 with the doctors and 36 202 with the nurses. [[9.40 hours]] We also made sure that we had enough doctors and the future. That is why we increased the capacity of medical faculties by 25 percent and allocated 7 billion crowns by 2029. In state hospitals we have established scholarships for students of medical disciplines, we have supported residential places and the education of practical doctors and practitioners for children and adolescents. We reduced the administrative burden by untiring the doctors and nurses to treat the patients. If the health system is to function well, primary care must first and foremost function effectively. We have invested massively and supported the development of primary care as a cornerstone of health care provision. We have reformed primary care and improved the conditions for operation and development of practitioners, practical children's doctors, dentists and outpatient gynecologists. Their potential and capabilities were not used, so the reform of primary care and the improvement of the conditions for its functioning were one of our government's priorities. Openly, as a key topic, we have begun to address the availability of primary care for all citizens. Regional differences in the availability of practice doctors and dentists also started to improve. We strengthened the role of practices, gave them greater opportunity to prescribe drugs and enabled them to provide new services, especially in chronically ill patients. We supported the emergence of combined practice so that more doctors could use one ambulance. We have ensured that patients have access to modern innovative medicines in serious diseases. Our goal was to increase the availability of innovative medicines and make medicines for serious and rare diseases available to patients. We secured the budget of specialized centres, removed waiting lists in specialized centres, where patients with severe diseases could not be treated due to lack of resources. Thanks to active drug policy, changing the payment process and ensuring funding, we have managed to significantly improve the availability of innovative medicines and patients' access to modern treatment. The independent international evaluation of the availability of innovative medicines in European countries, the so-called EFPIA Report, ranked the Czech Republic among the best countries in Europe in the approach of patients to modern innovative medicines in 2021. In 2017, when we took over health care, our government, according to this independent comparison between European countries in the availability and access of patients to innovative medicines, the Czech Republic was one of the last, worst countries in Europe. As of 1 January 2022, a new system for authorising the reimbursement of orphan drugs has been in place, where a collective advisory body will play a key role in deciding on the entry of such a drug into payment. For the first time in history, we have also involved patients themselves in deciding to pay for these medicines. For example, medicines for cystic fibrosis, muscle dystrophy, or haematooncological disease. For patients suffering from chronic pain who are not being treated with other medicines, we have pushed for 90 percent of health insurance companies to pay for therapeutic cannabis. Yes, hello, Mr. Majzlík. He's earned it, and I'm the Prime Minister. We have implemented new legislation, categorization and payment regulation of medical devices, which has improved the availability and access of patients to innovative medical devices. As with drugs, we have involved patients in deciding on the payment of medical aids. After all, the number of medical aids paid for in our government has widened considerably. One example is wheelchairs, where the second wheelchair is currently covered by patients. We have tightened quality control and availability of medical devices. Home care. Home care has been significantly underfunded in the past. Our government has come up with a new concept of home care. The YES movement pushed for a significant increase in home care payments. Between 2017 and 2021, home care payments doubled from CZK 1.9 billion to CZK 3.8 billion. From 1 January 2022 home care can indicate a wider range: doctors, outpatient specialists, emergency doctors or emergency reception, and nurses in home care have gained greater competence, for example, to prescribe medical aids to patients, but also greater autonomy in providing health care in their own social environment. Urgent care. We have solved many years of problems with the availability of urgent medicine and have built a network of emergency hospitals in each region and district, ensuring that a sufficient capacity network of urgent workplaces is available throughout the country. We have also laid the foundations for a standardised backbone and regional network of hospitals. In cooperation with insurance companies, we created the first concept of urgent care in the Czech Republic with clear structure and standards. We have created a network of urgent income, solved their financing and their construction using grant titles, for which all of the guaranteed networks of hospitals with urgent income can reach. The new model will provide available and quality care for acute patients in all districts 24 hours a day. Reform of mental health care. We have initiated a very necessary reform and modernisation of psychiatric care. The outdated system of large treatments began to change in combination with the spinal network of acute, outpatient and community care. We have significantly increased the amount of money for psychiatrists and improved the quality of care for the mentally ill. We have established 30 mental health centres in order to have 100 of them to cover the whole Czech Republic. We supported the emergence of psychiatric ambulances and started the construction of new psychiatric clinics throughout the Czech Republic. We have established new crisis intervention centres in which psychiatric, adictological and psychological care is available as in the first point of contact in an urgent situation. Fighting cancer, my favorite topic. Population is getting old. We are witnessing an epidemic of chronic diseases, covid, but also an epidemic of cancer. Yes, unfortunately, 75 of our fellow citizens are gonna die today and 200 are gonna get cancer. Within a few years, in 2035, this is the prediction of the European Union, it will become the greatest killer. For four whole years of our government, we have therefore focused on combating cancer, which has temporarily overshadowed the pandemic of covid. That is why we supported the development of large-scale screening programmes. Since 1 January 2022, we have launched a new general screening focused on lung cancer. We have directed 10.5 billion into treatment and prevention of oncological diseases and another 14.5 is intended to combat cancer from Europe. Overall, at a meeting of the European Council, which lasted four nights and five days, I won extra 42 billion for the Czech Republic and especially for Czech health care 50 billion. Yes, 50 billion! Compared to the period that Mr Nečas won in 2012 or 2013 - it was 8 billion for Czech health care, only. Well, we've worked out the National Cancer Plan, and we've published this brochure. [[He's pointing.]] Do you remember Mr. Jurečka standing here screaming that it was a campaign? Yes, the Bureau checked it out, it wasn't a campaign. That was our concern for the people, and I was at those stops that I was going to, and we put it at our expense. We invented it at the Office of the Government, the current government stopped it, because it probably doesn't want people to know they have to go to prevention. Only 63 percent of Czech citizens go to prevention. [[9.50 hours]] This brochure is very important. So, respectable citizens, ask your insurance companies, even if the current government has forbidden it. It's not about Babiš. Here's a side about how some people are afraid to go to prevention - what if by chance? But what if, by chance, God forbid, you get prostate or breast cancer, so our doctors, if they're on time, will cure you 100%. We were once the worst in colon cancer in Europe, today we dropped to a good 12th place. Yes, this was our crucial program. We came up with a project to build in Prague, yes, you can hear well, in Prague, the most modern cancer hospital in the world. There are only six of those specialized in Europe, big ones. The minister, who is not here because he doesn't care, went on a trip to Portugal. Probably because there's a sea, he went to some oncological research facility. Well, why didn't he go to Norway or Texas or Australia? That was the model we made here. Well, where's the money now? Well, I sure hope he doesn't get lost somewhere between Motol and the Department of Health, that there won't be a facade on some hospital. I can already hear voices - the godfathers are coming back. So, Minister, I wanted to build a self-contained cancer hospital in Prague, such as the Masaryk Cancer Institute, the so-called Yellow Man, where we pushed for a billion-dollar prevention pavilion. And the Pražák boys go to Yellow, wait six months, and the Slovák are desperate, because they don't have the kind of care we have in Bohemia and here in Brno, in a single oncological hospital. So try - I know everything Babiš invented is wrong, but I didn't invent it, these oncologists invented it. These guys made it up. And the national fight against cancer, Joe Biden 2016 came up with it. All you had to do was walk around the world. It's a shame we didn't go after the revolution to learn something. So this is the basis. Dear citizens, go to the colonoscopy, measure PSA, we retirees - prostate, women mammogram, that's what we wanted, the government that banned - here they yelled before the election: Babiš is campaigning. Yes, Babiš was always interested in protecting people. Our government has done everything we can to protect our citizens. So you have a bunch of money, 50 billion from Europe, 15 for the National Cancer Fight, of which 8 would cost a new independent hospital. So I'm hoping you'll continue to invest. You're from Brno, so I think you should do it. Saint Anna, the new obstetrician at Apolinář, was born there by most famous politicians. I mean their wives. And those other projects - IKEM, we're building, yes, a billion-dollar new pavilion for transplants. Czech doctors are the best in Europe. This is Vienna, Berlin and Prague by IKEM, 550 transplants. The genius doctors are there, the genius surgeons, and you should keep doing that, in our projects. In Thomayerka, which looks like the way Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk built it, a new pulmonary pavilion, a new emergency reception center and other things. You have there for 14 billion investments that we have prepared. By the way, I guess everyone forgot that we had a National Investment Plan by 2050, that's where everything was written. So it would be nice if the Minister had done this. But the minister isn't actually going to make it because when we look - out of the money we won, and the React-EU - I remember all the ministers fighting, it was a huge battle for the money, and I pushed it to the Czech health service. So even small hospitals like Nymburk got 150 mil, and more. Well, I sure hope you can handle it all. We've arranged the money, we've prepared everything, and now I'm learning, Minister of Health, that in June the deadline for submitting the feasibility studies to the React-EU programme has expired for you at the European Commission! How is that possible? It's the end of August, and the documents are supposedly still in the Ministry of Health. So I don't know why. Do you want the money for the hospitals or not? When we've arranged it, you should draw on it. The draw date is 23, the time is running fast. So I'd ask the Prime Minister to take a look at it, because apparently it's not working right now. So those planned investment actions need to be realized. And if that doesn't happen in time, the money from Europe - and the finance minister is still complaining that he doesn't have money, well, that's one of the things that this government is still lying about, that we are in debt, is the sixth - the best public finances in Europe. And you have a thousand billion in the Modernization Fund thanks to us, and a thousand billion European funds, so start pumping already! When we started in 2014, it was our priority, it was Sobotkův's government, so the period didn't draw at all, and we finally made it. So please, you have both iron and steel money, so try to do something about it. Yes, cancer is a bitch, there's no vaccine for it. At these meetings, I tell people to inoculate young girls and women against HPV virus, that's the only vaccine, and the rest is prevention, prevention, prevention. It's very important. And most importantly, those who have cancer in the family, unfortunately, statistics are 10 percent at risk of that happening to those who are in the family. So it's very important, and that's why I'm talking about it here. I think that this is the most important project that we have started, which we have prepared, and this government -- all we have to do is keep it going. But I hear different signals, negative signals, so hopefully those signals will melt away like most of this government's signals. The five-calice government should realise that the decisions we are making now mean that the government is taking 14 billion to Czech health care, affecting our future significantly, and having a fundamental impact on the functioning of Czech health care and patients' access to health care. The need for and the importance of a functioning health system for society is clear and essential, for the covid pandemic only confirmed and accentuated it. By the way, even in the covid, the Paxlovid and so on - you're making excuses for us, yes, you could have sold the vaccines, you've been there eight months, so what were you doing? We used to sell when we had an excess. So you can ask your colleagues at the Ministry. Thanks to the functioning and robust health system and the huge deployment of health professionals, our company has passed this difficult test. As a thank you for managing the covid pandemic, the five-calice government is now making money out of Czech health care, destabilizing it and endangering its functioning. So it's this government's thanks to paramedics for taking their money. So, look, we're not talking about the current government deciding not to raise the income of the health budget and saying, "We're not going to raise insurance premiums for state insured people, we're going to freeze it at the current level." Health, patients, that's not a priority for us, that's what the government says. It's much worse than that. They have not only added anything to the health budget, they have decided to withdraw the funds that are on the health insurance accounts, and to defrad the money intended for the care of patients and to take them out by legislative change from the health insurance accounts. [[10.00 hours]] The moment they began to implement this crazy plan to destabilize the financing of the Czech health care and defradure of funds intended for the treatment of patients, there was such a strong wave of resistance, protests and criticism from the professional public, opposition parties, health professionals and patients that the five-wheelers were frightened and realized that this crazy plan would not just pass. They started to figure out how to cover up what they were caught with, the indefensible embezzlement of patients' cures, and to distract them. They quickly began to claim that they did not want to damage the health care, that they did not want to raise any money, that they did not want to jeopardise the availability and quality of health care, and added to the submitted amendment to the Act on the reduction of insurance premiums for state insured persons and to the implementation of 14 billion out of the health budget quickly several sections on the regular valorisation of insurance premiums for state insured persons, which they originally wanted to submit at the end of the parliamentary term according to the government's programming declaration. And they started to claim that they didn't want to take any money out of the health department and embezzle. The behavior and media expression of the government resembles the behavior of a thief who steals a car, and when he's caught doing so, he starts to claim that he didn't want to steal a car, but that he just wanted to borrow it. Tunnel money intended for the treatment of patients and thus threaten to cover health care. Setting up a regular valorisation mechanism for the next period is undoubtedly the right step. However, it does not change the fact that the government is still trying to extract 14 billion from health care in one-off and short-sighted ways, thereby reducing the health budget's revenue in a risky way. It was unhappy to see the directors of health insurance companies who, after meeting with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health, presented a plan to carry out 14 billion out of the health insurance budget, were embarrassed to be called upon to welcome and thank the Minister of Finance and Health for putting money out of the budget of health insurance companies. For journalists' questions to the directors of major faculty hospitals, if cutting money in the health budget would be enough to cover needs and provide available care in faculty hospitals, the answer was silence and lip biting. Yes, I understand. I get it. The Minister has already fired several directors, and he has certainly put someone there transparently, probably out of fear of being a new government guarantee for telling the truth, like other directors executed and dismissed. This too is part of the change and new order brought by the five-calice government. People are afraid to say what they think so they don't get in trouble and get kicked out of work. They did not allow themselves to be silenced and warned against the negative effects of reducing the health budget by presidents of dentistry, medical and pharmacy chambers, representatives of the Association of Czech and Moravian Hospitals and Coalition of private doctors, representatives of patient organizations, health unions and cautiously warned that health insurance reserves would soon be exhausted and health care would have to be reduced, even President Friedrich. Minus just isn't a plus. There will be no more and better care for lower payments. There's never more music for less money. The veto of the President of the Republic gives the five-calice government another chance to back out of this irresponsible, harmful plan and to stop weakening and destabilising Czech health care. That is why I am asking you, I strongly ask you to stop threatening the stability of Czech health care, accessibility and quality of health care, do not harm patients and health professionals. Stop taking money out of the health budget. Stop promoting ill-advised, destructive proposals threatening health care for Czech citizens. Please refrain from enforcing this harmful, stupid bill. Submit in a separate proposal only a mechanism of regular valorisation starting with a valid, unreduced amount of insurance premiums for state insured persons set by our government. Do not interfere with development and do not jeopardize the future of Czech health care. Patients, doctors, nurses, paramedics and all the other paramedics, citizens of this country don't deserve it. Just because you now have the power and 108 votes in Parliament, you do not have the right to irresponsiblely increase vulnerability and destabilize the functioning of the health system, availability and quality of care and threaten the future of the development of Czech health care. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u9	Now, Mr President, I'm going to ask you to specify the new item, as you said at the outset, because there was noise. I'm sorry, I didn't get a chance to write it down exactly if you'd be so kind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u10	So I'm suggesting you place the other new point, or do you want the first one? No.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u11	Both of you, please. Thank you. Let's make sure we don't knock the name off when the vote comes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u12	So the other one... [[He's searching his writing material.]] I propose the second point - the name of the state in Czech health care. [[- Yes, thank you.]] And first, second, I have to track it... [[He's searching his writing material.]] And the first point - title: How organized crime placed his man as director of the Office of Foreign Relations and Information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] So now I'm going to load up the apologies. In the meantime, Mr Jan Richter also apologizes from today's meeting, for the whole of the day due to his foreign travel, Minister Kupka, between 9.30 and 11.30 for working reasons, and also for Secretary Anna Hubáčková, who apologizes for the whole day for personal reasons. Mr Beitl is voting with a replacement card today, and it is number 33. It is now on the agenda of Mrs Klára Dostálová, and the next one is Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u14	Madam President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to include the proposal for a solution to the housing crisis as the first item today. I don't think I'm the only one with desperate families for help. The reality is truly unbelievable. We have young people who built little family houses in the country a few years ago. We were glad that the country was actually populated, that these people lived there. I would like to tell you a story now, which I'm sure many of you also have in your parliamentary e-mails. It's a young family, a father 35 years old, a woman 31 years old on maternity leave with an annual child. About five years or six years ago, they took a mortgage of CZK 3.5 million to build a family house in the countryside. Their five-year interest fixation on the mortgage ended and their mortgage increased by CZK 9,000 a month to CZK 21,600. Energy - new advances on gas and electricity came in, totaling CZK 8,500. The family has a net income of CZK 30,000. Of course, they call for help, say what to do, that they are, of course, ready to sell the housing, so they can move into an apartment, but they're not. There are no apartments on the market, they don't stop. Why isn't he coming over? Well, of course, these days there are hugely high prices for building materials. We don't actually have a new building law, the licensing processes take a really long time. I've spoken to builders in big cities for the last time, and they say that the situation is no longer unbearable, that even though they really had flats to build, they are not allowed. At the same time, however, they admit that a little bit of the downturn is due to the high energy, due to the high cost of building materials. I also ask, what is it, how do we help these young people? Because of this family I'm talking about, of course, they could ask for extra immediate help, but they can't ask because they own a family home. They can't even ask for a housing allowance at an adequate amount, because the mortgage simply doesn't count on the household spending. And it really needs to help these people. Or, as we are here, will we really watch these young people end up on the street? With the kids? Because I asked the gentleman if his parents would help. They say, well, parents live in 1+kk, we just can't fit in there. The situation is really disproportionate. At the same time, when I started talking to the young man, he told me that they had to smile that they would, of course, like to warm up and so on, but they don't have any savings, reserves to make the family house of photovoltaics warm up. And even if they were to receive a grant and maybe this family would reach the maximum support, so the nearest possible deadline for realization of photovoltaics is the autumn of next year. That means those young people don't really have an adequate solution right now to deal with it. [[10.10 hours]] Well, of course, I am concerned that in this situation, the Ministry of Regional Development has suspended the youth housing programme, which means, for example, that the State should lend them a cooperative share or some realization of its own housing, even the Ministry has not increased the subsidy title that concerns the investment of land for housing. The Minister had overhangs of almost 200 million there, but of course these projects are not being implemented either. And I'm convinced that we created opportunities when we left as a government. For example, we discussed that it would be worth negotiating with banks to extend the mortgage maturity to, say, 40 years. Because once you do that, logically, your payment will be reduced, which means those young people might be able to do it with these very tools. We were handing over, on paper, I admit it, but a private public sector involvement project to make land available to the state, to start housing and so on. And the only thing the current government has actually done is move the new building bill by a year. Their actually upcoming amendment is really burdened with many comments, there are 55 major contradictions, including major departmental contradictions, so we will probably not be able to see the new construction law in the near future. It is precisely the answers to these questions that young people would deserve. I'm sure they're not just writing to you, they're writing to you, and that's why I'd like to ask that the solution to the housing crisis be placed as the first point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Vondrák is now signed in and Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would take the liberty of using this meeting to include a point in today's agenda that I think concerns all those people who are somehow involved in self-government, who care about the functioning of the institutions. And I would call that point Energy funding by organizations established by municipalities and regions. Why am I opening it? Since we're mayors here, I'm the captain here now thinking only I am, but a lot of people are basically dealing with the unsolvable, i.e. how to buy energy for the county, for the community, and of course for all the contribution organizations. The situation is truly trivial and I would like to say that this is no longer a request for opposition and a coalition. This is basically already a problem that puts the whole Czech Republic in a very difficult situation. And if we don't start solving this problem quickly, there's a moment when the whole system of operation of our organizations can collapse. And I say this with all the weight of what we have with this experience. I would like to say that we are able, but not always, to buy electricity, which is surprisingly impossible to buy with cheap money, although we are producing in the Czech Republic with a 20% excess demand, that is, we have 20 percent more energy available than we are able to consume, but we are still buying this energy with funds that are completely inadequate to what the electricity is produced for. I will give an example for our region: 16,000 for one megawatt hour we competed, we bought, sorry, did not compete, bought on the stock exchange for the next six months, which means 430 extra, which will cost the region and all of our organizations that we set up. And I would like to say that these things need to be dealt with, because besides this electrical energy, we still have a gas that can't be purchased at all. So I would like to open this point and I would like to speak here on behalf of the Czech authorities and, of course, the mayor of the city of Prague, who met this morning at 8 o'clock through videoconferencing and we are looking for ways to resolve this situation. I would like to say that at 10:00 a.m. the press conference is held by the President of the Association of the Regions of the Czech Republic, Mr Martin Kuba, when we agreed on three points that we would like to present. And I would take the liberty of offering them right here in Parliament so that we can start having serious conversations about them. I would like to say that, at this point in time, I see this again as a constructive suggestion that we want to find a solution to the whole difficult situation. The common denominator of the proposal is, of course, the ceiling. We simply cannot do without a ceiling, it is just a question of how to make a ceiling, so that we do not essentially do what I would call, let us say, simply, the destruction of the Czech Republic's budget. And I would like to say that we have defined three areas in which we would just like to propose a solution to get out of the situation. Of course, they're families, I know there's been some kind of energy tariff going on right now, but we don't think it's a problem that could be something... or there's no way to solve it. Because I don't think that a few thousand crowns is gonna help anybody, and I think we need to find another system solution. We want the customer's price to be ceilinged. We want this to be 75 to 80 per cent of last year's consumption, so that we essentially force households to save a little, but it is still very important. And the rest of it that's gonna be over the ceiling, it's just gonna have to be financed by the state budget. I don't think there's any other way. And the second thing, that's why I'm here, and what we want to solve, and that's the financing of state institutions, I mean, of course, critical infrastructure, that's kindergarten, schools, hospitals, social homes and the like, where we think it's necessary to establish a state trader who buys the energy available on the market, and we still know that there's 10 to 15 percent there, which will then be sold to these organizations at a fixed price so that we can avoid competing that we can't secure at that point and we don't have how to compete because there's no where and above all there's nothing to do, because the money and the costs are disproportionately high. And the third thing is the question of companies where we see the way in the ceiling again, with the fact that what is actually going to be above that ceiling is then collected so on taxes so that we can basically solve the problem of the state budget destruction again, that is, using windfall tax so that basically everything above that ceiling goes back from 95 percent to the state budget. These are the three proposals which I assume are now presented by Mr Martin Kuba. I believe that this is a matter on which we have all agreed, and I think it is worth using today's meeting to solve this problem together, because otherwise - I repeat what I said at the beginning - the danger of collapse is more than obvious and we simply need to look for a solution to this whole situation. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, too. But I'm going to ask if you're interested in a particular assignment, because I didn't notice it being said, except for the inclusion of a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u18	It doesn't really matter in time, I'd be in favour of doing it as soon as possible, that is, after the law we're discussing right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u19	So as a second point, you could say that. [[- Yes, thank you.]] Thank you. Mr Tomio Okamura is now in office and will be followed by President Radim Fiala to change the agenda of the meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose as the first item in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for the SPD point entitled The Government is not helping people with expensiveness. I must say that when I heard the idea of the government coalition of Petr Fiala about the parameters of the austerity tariff, I thought it was a really disgusting mockery to people. For three quarters of a year, the ODS government of Petr Fiala published the parameters of the austerity tariff that it promised to help people with expensive energy. The amount of aid will be on average only around CZK 1000 per month. Are you kidding me? After all, people have increased their energy backups by multiple times. Moreover, food has also increased. The Fialův Government has no solution and should resign. Millions of our citizens are rushing into an unsolvable financial and social situation because of the Fialův government. Moreover, the government does not solve the cause of the price increase, but the effect. A thousand a month does not really solve sharply rising prices for citizens. But the state has the money. For July alone, the government of Petr Fiala from ODS paid migrants from Ukraine in the Czech Republic at doses of almost a billion crowns. Just for July! Exactly 887 million. The Purple Ukrainian government helps Ukraine and Ukrajinec with billions each month, but it doesn't give a damn about Czech citizens. I say we help the really needy. But you are completely forgetting the citizens of the Czech Republic. After all, this is also seen in the priorities of the Presidency of the European Union, which is held by the government of Petr Fiala. We've already had the second month out of the six-month presidency. You lied, promised mountains of mines. But as a number-one priority, you put Ukraine's renewal and Ukraine's accession to the EU first. You are not the Czech government. You are the Ukrainian government. And you're sold out. Selling out the interests of Brussels, Berlin, Washington and Ukraine. And all citizens in the Czech Republic are paying for it. You may not be so incompetent, but in any case, you are capable, but not for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Moreover, Prime Minister Fiala lied openly the day before yesterday, repeatedly saying that the government had allocated CZK 177 billion to overall aid to citizens against inflation. That's not true. For example, one of the largest items in this amount is the valuation of pensions. But this is automatically due to inflation on the basis of a law adopted earlier. So the Fialův government has no merit whatsoever. And neither is that. Because last year, when there was a vote on raising pensions for this year, last summer, the members of the current Purple government five-calice voted against raising pensions. This year's pensions are increasing beyond legal valorisation only thanks to the votes of the SPD and YES plus, I believe that two Members voted for it by another party, which is no longer in the House today, last summer. So, on the contrary, you opposed raising pensions, and of your own volition, you did not increase pensions by a penny. On the contrary, you even voted proactively - the government of Petr Fiala, the five-calice - against raising pensions. A few months ago, the SPD's movement submitted a specific ten-terro solution to Fialův's costume. And these are the following proposals: 1. Withdrawal from the European Union's Green Deal. That's the so-called green destiny. 2. Withdrawal from the EU emission allowances system which makes energy and raw materials more expensive. As you know, emission allowances break full records. They've become the target of speculation. But everything is paid by a citizen of the Czech Republic. 3. We propose the sale of cheap Czech electricity directly to Czech citizens and companies and through the EU energy exchange in Leipzig only the sale of surplus. We are a self-sufficient country in electricity. But the government, as sold abroad and goes against Czech citizens, or the Čech are completely stolen from you, your government, the government of Petr Fiala, so you simply stubbornly defend the interests of Austria and Germany, which need our electricity, but ours, originally cheaply, very cheaply produced energy from coal and from the core, send it to the EU stock exchange and there it is up to 4,000 percent more expensive. And you don't give a damn. And we say, first, fill the cheap electricity with the needs of our citizens and companies, and then, if necessary, sell the surplus on the stock exchange, for example, like France. So the European Union makes it possible. It makes it possible. Only your government doesn't want to do it. 4. We propose the renewal of the national gas importer and the purchase of cheap gas directly from producers, not through German traffickers, as is currently the case. Yes, we're buying the same Russian gas, but it's worth twice as much over German fences. And we just don't agree with that in the SPD. We want cheap gas. And I don't understand why it's being bought through dealers. Why do you insist? To make money from the Němec? But the Čech are losing money. But I get it, I know you. You are not a government for Czech citizens. Perhaps Prime Minister Petr Fiala sees himself as the Commissioner, which is why he really jumps as they whistle in Brussels, in Brussels and Washington. 5. We want the national oil processor restored. Yes, the previous governments had their heads privatized - Unipetrol, Transgas, Innogs have Maďar too. We are simply here under the authority of a foreign country, and the Czech Republic does not have strategic infrastructure either. And we want to change that. 6. We want the abolition of the solar tax and any subsidies that make electricity more expensive for consumers. nojo, but the government's going to the solar barons. So did the government of Andrej Babiš. But the SPD movement here says we're not supposed to do it that way, that it's supposed to be a Czech citizen and the Czech Republic in the first place. 7. We want to ensure food security, support for Czech farmers and food professionals. Expensive food - it's a big issue that the government of Petr Fiala doesn't even deal with. Out of the 27 EU countries, 24 helped food producers with energy prices. 24 countries from 27. Of course, the Czech Republic is among the three countries that did not help because of Petr Fiala's government. We have the highest VAT on food in Central Europe - 15 percent. The Polák have a zero on basic food, and the other countries around them have the rates between them. So, because of the government of Petr Fiala, even the most expensive taxes on food are. And that's what the citizens see in the overpriced food. And Petr Fiala's government is doing absolutely nothing to help our citizens. 8. The SPD proposes a temporary reduction in VAT for energy, fuel, basic food and medicines and a reduction in the price of these commodities. VAT reduction - we have said it many times here that it is to reduce VAT to energy, to basic food, to fuel. Other European countries have done so. Petr Fiala's government doesn't do anything. He doesn't help people at all. Of course, either you are incompetent and dilettants, which we see too, but with you there is an evil intention, which means that you really do not want to help Czech citizens. 10. Comparison of conditions of domestic and foreign companies operating in the Czech Republic. The SPD has in the program that we are against tax increases for Czech citizens and Czech companies. And we're holding it. And we'll hold it. But here are multinational internet giants that generate huge profits in the Czech Republic without taxation in the Czech Republic - Google, Facebook and so on. We also want to tax the collection of tax-free dividends from the Czech Republic by multinational corporations. It's about the multinational corporations. And only this would bring 75 billion crowns to the Czech Republic's treasury, the taxation of non-taxed dividends. Transnational corporations generate profits here and then tax it somewhere in tax havens. How is the Czech company supposed to compete then? After all, money also runs to the Czech state. We've already proposed the law. We proposed it during the last parliamentary term and Babišův's government wrote us back that it was against EU rules. But I don't give a shit about them. Because I don't give a damn what he thinks in this EU. I am interested in what is beneficial for the Czech citizen and for the Czech Republic. And that's exactly the difference between the SPD and the other parties here in the House. [[10.30 hours]] These are all our proposals, our 10th anti-violet money, the government of the SPOLU coalition, meaning ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN, refusing to accept and thus getting more and more of our citizens into existential problems. Such a government has no trust of citizens. And we can see from the mainstream surveys that 20 percent of people believe in Petr Fiala's government. Twenty-eight I see somewhere. Just a vast majority, over 70 percent of the citizens, no longer trust the government of Petr Fiala. Even from these surveys, it turns out that only three quarters of a year since you were in the government, you have lost about three quarters of a million of your voters who originally voted for you. But you don't care anyway. In addition, leading politicians of government parties are involved in corruption, organised crime, and contacts with the Mafia. Of course, the solution here offers such a quick one. In September, there will be municipal and Senate elections, and I hope that the citizens will come to the elections and express what they think about Petr Fiala's government and issue an account to the government of Petr Fiala. The price of electricity at the European energy exchange in Leipzig exceeded the limit of EUR 700 per megawatt hour, i.e. about CZK 17,000. On Monday, she added more than 25 percent. Just the price of electricity breaks the record. Only a week ago, the price was 200 euros lower, EUR 500 per megawatt hour. The SPD calls on the government of Petr Fiala to stop exporting CEZ and at the same time stop buying electricity on the Leipzig Stock Exchange and ensure low electricity prices for Czech citizens and companies, as I have already proposed in our desatra. Maybe it only exports surpluses, because today it is that ČEZ will produce electricity from the core, one megawatt hour for about 250 crowns, to buy it in Leipzig for 17,000. It seems normal to the government of Petr Fiala, literally robbing Czech citizens like that, but it certainly doesn't seem normal to us in the SPD. Petr Fiala's government just doesn't give a shit about the Czech Republic and Czech citizens. This insane increase and incompetence of Petr Fiala's government brings people into poverty and brings us to the collapse of our country's economy. Czech companies, businessmen, are already starting to collapse, and unemployment is at risk, because Petr Fiala's government simply does not deal with these serious matters at all. And the collapse of industry, the collapse of the economy, so it will be another hard blow for the Czech Republic due to the government of Petr Fiala. By the way, I'm gonna take a little more turn. Čech pay the highest price for mobile services in the European Union. Further proof that we are in the position of a colony in the West. The Czech Telecommunications Authority stated in its analysis, and it is from this week that the retail prices of mobile services in the Czech Republic remain the highest in the European Union. Although there is a decline in retail prices in the medium term, prices in other EU countries are falling faster than in the Czech Republic. This is also confirmed by the latest data and analysis of the European Commission according to the Czech Telecommunications Authority. According to the analysis of the Czech Telecommunication Authority, mobile services prices in the Czech Republic are 150 percent higher than the average of the European Union and one gigabyte data is even more expensive by 201 percent. And Petr Fiala's government is not doing anything about it again! So Petr Fiala's government, this is the government chairing the European Union, bragging about what you're going to affect and change, and we said that you're not going to change anything at all. (a) it's just a puppet system, it's the Presidency, so you're not going to change anything, and of course it comes to my words. This Presidency costs the citizens of the Czech Republic CZK 2.24 billion. 2.24 billion crowns you have spent under the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the European Union, and what does the citizen get out of it? So you're walking around Brussels, walking around all over the place, making yourself some colorful umbrellas - unlike what you're offering people, at least it's not leaky, but it's just one comedy, one PR that doesn't bring people anything. And you spend thousands of billions on it at the expense of Czech citizens! You're not gonna change anything. No one in the European Union will listen to you, just throwing away unnecessary money. And in the Czech Republic, the situation is as I said about the prices of mobile operators, that there is oligopolis and low competition. Those three operators own 96 percent SIM cards. And I say clearly, if the free market does not ensure competition, is it necessary to intervene in the state, because why should the citizens of the Czech Republic pay the highest prices for mobile services and data services in the European Union due to the inability of the government of Petr Fiala? That's not normal. After all, our salaries, the salaries of citizens of the Czech Republic, the average salaries in the Czech Republic, are one-third of those in Germany, and yet you are so servile that you are silent and pulling more and more money out of the pockets of our citizens, yet today every citizen in the Czech Republic has a mobile phone. You don't give a damn about it, because the House, the ministry, and all that, is that you don't really care how much people pay for mobile services, but we're interested in the SPD. We care because we want citizens to have a better standard of living. We simply disagree that Brusel should interfere with our internal affairs, because the Czech Telecommunications Authority said that it wanted to intervene several times in the past, but it was said that the European Commission did not like it. This is an incredible situation completely! Incredible arrogance and incompetence. The arrogance of Brusel and the inability of the Fialův Government. I really do not understand why Czech consumers should pay the most throughout the European Union. Next thing you know, we're gonna deal with that here tonight. So, on the one hand, you refuse to help people with the price increase and refuse to solve the price increase. I have clearly presented a specific tenatero, we have represented it several times, so the SPD offers a concrete solution to what your government does not want to do about it, because you are servile towards Berlin, Brussels, Washington and so on, but in all the cases where citizens are getting into huge financial problems and social problems, you are still presenting a law to the House today, once again on the table here, the government coalition is putting it here, that you want to reduce by CZK 14 billion payments to health insurance companies for so-called state insured. This means that you are still right here promoting and pushing through the deterioration of the availability of health care for our citizens and the deterioration of the conditions for the work of health professionals, and that is completely unacceptable for the SPD as well. That is why we have been defending your fingernails here since winter, we have also been obstructing this proposal in the first reading, but also in other readings, and I am proud to report that we have been doing this obstruction here, because we simply do not want health insurance companies, especially when inflation has increased here and inputs have increased, energy prices have also increased for health equipment and so on, so you are still taking CZK 14 billion to Czech citizens, the Czech health system, to make it worse care, and instead you have moved the billions to Ukraine. And I think it's really incredible. Unbelievable! I've never seen such a harmful government since 1989. I think you're the worst and most damaging government in at least three quarters of a year that you've ever shown that was ever here. And it's not just my opinion, hundreds of people write it to me, maybe thousands already. And now you're telling in advance that today it's supposed to come to this program, that you want to make the availability of health care worse, and that the ODS government coalition, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN have already announced in advance that you're overruled by the president's veto. Nothing moves in you. Nothing at all! While citizens have been waiting long months to be examined by specialized doctors, months have been waiting for various treatments. Now, in the course of that six months, hundreds of thousands of new state insured people have come into the system because of you, and you're still taking money. That's really unbelievable. Of course, in this context, we are in favour of expressing distrust to the government of Petr Fiala, because this hurtful and incompetent government must end. And you've already put millions of citizens in financial trouble today, your government, but now it's autumn, now it's winter. Those problems are gonna get worse. But you didn't offer a single solution. You didn't bring the only solution. [[10.40 hours]] Giving people, on average, a thousand crowns a month to help with expensive backup energy is really a mockery, because it doesn't help anyone. Plus, you're dealing with the outcome and you're not solving the cause. I have already talked about these causes, and I have proposed a specific solution under the SPD. So, of course, we've been trying for a long time to vote here on the distrust of the government of Petr Fiala. Of course, the government coalition mocks it and says: we have 108, you have 92. As opposition, we are here two opposition parties. But it is so numerous, but that does not mean that we are going to resign, to strong political pressure on you, because you simply do not act in the interests of most citizens of the Czech Republic, which also shows that 80 percent of citizens, or more than 70 percent of citizens, no longer have confidence in Petr Fiala's government. So she didn't trust most citizens even after the elections, because you only got 43 percent of the votes of the citizens because a million votes fell, so if we added up all the votes of the voters of the Czech Republic in last October's elections to the House, you had only 43 percent of the votes from the start. So you're a minority government from the voice of citizens, but you don't act like one at all. You guys are normal scoundrels who just want to rob what they can, but you totally, totally bailed on the citizens. So, of course, we... I welcome the fact that the YES movement decided yesterday that it would also like to call for a vote on distrust of the government, it takes 50 signatures of Members, the SPD has only 20, so we're collecting the signatures today, we're putting it together. And I hope that this vote will happen as quickly as possible, because it is also necessary to share the views of the various Members at that meeting, I assume that this will mainly be opposition opinions, because we have noticed with the government Members that they are all silent. You don't actually perform at all, you keep quiet. We're always seeing something on social media, some invectors, but that you would suggest some concrete solution to the House of Decades and helping people, we've never heard that here before. And we've had almost a year after the election and almost a year here you have a majority in the House. And the result is completely, completely miserable. Of course, when I was talking about the European Union, it was now a survey, I think it was STEM, and it was in mainstream, in mainstream media that citizens disagreed - I think it was 80 percent of the citizens, 79 percent in the survey, if I remember you well, it was this way plus minus, 79 percent does not agree with your priorities for the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Because you are in the first place there, that you want to help Ukraine and take Ukraine into the European Union, instead of having a solution to the energy crisis in the first place. That's really unbelievable what you guys are doing. So most people here are already opposed to you, but you're not going anywhere. Of course, the energy, it is, I have a big problem to say. And I want to say for myself that we have called for today as opposition, that is, SPD and the ANO movement, there are two opposition parties here, so of course there is nothing left to do but cooperate with each other and it is certainly beneficial in these matters, so we have called an extraordinary meeting here called the Government Strategy to deal with the energy crisis and the threats of rising unemployment, and I have once again learned the unfortunate thing that Mrs Pekarová Adamová, President of the House, and Chairman of the TOP 09. Instead of putting this fundamental issue on the table for today as the first point of the meeting, so that it should be from nine, because the auction is of interest to all citizens, all citizens are in trouble, so Mrs Pekarová Adamová, President of the House, deliberately did what she did only as the last point to discuss it at midnight. That's what I need to say. President of the House and TOP 09 Mrs Pekarová deliberately moved Adamová, because it is her authority, our point so that there is no talk of expensiveness to be talked about at night, and yet here she laughed, I suspect it was Mr Benda, the chairman of the SPD (?), in the media that it will be sometime at night and it will no longer be for media attention and so on. So you laugh in the face of the citizens, in the face of the citizens! Like, you don't want to deal with price increases and you don't want to help people. And this, through you, when I address you, President of the House, Mrs Pekarová Adamová of the TOP 09 still normally laughs at people's faces and places such a serious topic as helping people with the expensive, to discuss our opposition proposals again, because you don't have any as government, so maybe you'll just put it sometime tonight, maybe it won't even come to that tonight, not to talk about it at all. So, on the one hand, you're recommending people take sweaters - this is Mrs. Pekarová. Adamová and Mr. Michálek of the Pirates recommend here to the citizens that your solution is to wear sweaters, and that's how you laugh at people so that it doesn't come to that, and you put it on purpose to discuss it at night, and God knows if they're gonna get to that at all tonight. Unbelievable impertinence! TOP 09, which has a 3% preference, so you guys are always manipulating this place so... well, it's according to the Rules of Procedure, but we see your priorities here. You're just hurting people, Madam President Pekarová Adamová, and you're totally against people. That means -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u21	Mr President, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u22	Yes, through you. That means, September is coming, millions of people are worried about how it's gonna be in the winter, people are terrified, you're driving around in that state-priced BMW of yours, the heated backseat, and you don't give a damn. It's incredible what you're doing as Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies! You just make a mockery of people, mocking people, that's impossible. And instead, you, President of the House, will rank as your first priority as your first priority to take CZK 14 billion from health insurance and make health care worse for citizens of the Czech Republic and health conditions for health professionals. You are fully responsible, President of the House and Chairman of the TOP 09, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. You designed this program here today, and you sent out the invitation like this. So it's really incredible behavior. And here I was going to say who's to blame, and who's the main culprit here in the House, that even today, we're not going to be dealing with energy-expensives today, and that you're not going to leave us here to talk about it. It needs to be named by name, who is responsible and who is fully responsible. This really is the absolute peak, I must say, what you are doing here, Madam President of the House, with you brazenly going against people without shame. This is another important thing. Otherwise, about your proposal, President Pekarová Adamová, by your means. You're suggesting people take sweaters. Then you tell Prima on TV that the government isn't here to help people. Then your coalition colleague, the President of the Senate, see how the highest constitutional officials in the government coalition behave, so on Sunday he will just say in an interview for News, everyone has read it, so he will tell people with expensive advances to help themselves. Are those your five-wheeler's instructions? Taking sweaters, helping yourself, the government isn't here for people? This has only been summed up by three recent comments from your government coalition's representatives on the people and the current serious situation. And on the basis of your comments, Madame Pekarová, Adamová, through you, I receive letters. I got a letter from the Association of Social Services Providers and others who say, and right, how can old people be at 18 degrees? It's written by experts, it's sent to me here, it's sent to me by senior homeowners, the owners of social facilities, or the operators, respectively, they're not often owners, they're operators, whether they're from the public sphere or they're private. And they say that old people have problems with thermoregulation, for example. You just, I'm sorry, but I don't want to be personal, but I have a kid, my son is 27 years old, and I remember when he was a baby, and in your opinion, I should put three sweaters on my baby so he doesn't get cold. Don't be mad at me, but you just don't have the personal experience, which is why you can probably say such nonsense! For example, a baby can't take two or three sweaters, your instructions are meaningless. Don't be mad at me! [[10.50 hours]] So I'll talk about myself, I won't talk about you, you've noticed, I don't want to be personal, but about my personal experience, which you obviously don't have for some reason, it doesn't matter what kind of person I'm not going to judge, but I have experience, just like old people. Do the deputies send me letters, tell me how to do personal hygiene at 18 degrees to an 80-year-old man? I mean, that guy can't even do it medically. Just you, I'm sorry, but you're full of shit! It's a disgrace what you say. It's an insult to all the decent people who've worked their whole lives here, now they've got health problems, they're somewhere in medical facilities, and you tell them to bathe in 18 degrees. In 18 degrees, take a shower. You call single mothers and families with children, tell them to be with the baby, be 18 with the baby. I don't know how to say this anymore. That statement of yours, it's really like me, I'm ashamed that she's the president of the House, like, yeah, it's a terrible shame. It's a terrible shame. It's a terrible shame how you behave and how you just talk. You're completely out of reality. And the president of the Senate pushed out, so he gave it a crown for the ODS, he's one of their ODS leaders, by helping people with their own backups. And when I asked Minister Kupka, who I was at the Party with on Sunday at Prima, how long should people help themselves, she looks and keeps quiet. Vice-President of the ODS and one of the highest, he is Vice-President of the largest government party and minister. This is the government of the Czech Republic? This disgrace! And yet you have such impertinence, President Pekarová Adamová, by your means, that you call the SPD extreme. Us with these opinions? If anyone's extreme, it's you. Because extreme, look in the dictionary, what the word means. That means when you promote opinions outside the mainstream, which in itself doesn't always have to be wrong, but if someone goes against people, it's your government. You have extreme opinions. You're going against people. So if there's anyone extreme here, I'd say an extremist government that normally goes completely against the interests of most people, and it's the public polls, so it's Petr Fiala's government. That's right. So I'd like to go back to the point that I'm proposing here, and I'm suggesting it, so that point is called the Government's not helping people get more expensive, and I'd like to place it as the first point at this House of Deputies meeting. Otherwise, of course, I have more materials here, but now I don't know if I'm supposed to discuss it here, because the extraordinary meeting, you put it on purpose so that the solution for the citizens doesn't get discussed, but we'll wait. We'll wait to see if conscience moves in the coalition, and maybe you can put some space on it. There. Second point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a second special point on the agenda of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and it is a point entitled Increase in the number of illegal migrants to the Czech Republic. A number of people have been writing to me, and I have been pointing out to me that the number of illegal migrants has been rising sharply for several months, the migration of illegal migrants to the Czech Republic. Citizens who live at the Moravian-Slovak border on the Moravian side are already sending me photos that maybe they're passing through the villages somewhere and there are illegal migrants surrounded by police, of course, because they're being detained. Citizens are scared, they're even scared, they write me women and girls, they're afraid to go for a walk when it gets dark, because there are illegal migrants out there somewhere in the woods, and there are illegal migrants running. According to the Ministry of Interior's data, it's 76 percent about migrants from Muslim Syria, I'm not talking about ukrajinec at all, I'm talking about this illegal migration from these, I'm talking about... I'm not talking about the Ukraine issue right now. I'm not talking about it at all, if anyone wants it again, because sometimes there are some Members sitting on their ears just to degenerate and just to twist. So there's a problem here, because there's a problem hereRakušan there's a problem here, there's a problem Rakušan, there's a problem here, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-Pospíšil, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-Křečka, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, and there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer-timer-Pospíšil, there's a one-timer, and there's a one-timer, there's a one-timer, and there's a one-timer, and there's a one-timer, and there's a one-timer, and there's a one-timer, and there's a one-timer, and there's a one-man, and there's a one-man, and there's a one-timer, and there's a one-day, and there's a one-days a one-you, and there's a one-you, and there's a one-day, and there's a one-days a one-days a one-days a one-days a onePekarováAdamová, and there's a one-you, and there's a one-times a one-days a one-days a one-times a one-times a one-one, and there's a one-days a one- I haven't been in the '50s, I've been in the '80s, but I'm from a persecuted family, yeah, which I'm sure my brother will testify to, but it's just this, you're giving us back just like some time when who wasn't with us, was against us, this kind of thinking style, who thinks differently than I think, so I'm gonna bully him, so I'm gonna persecuting him, that's your style, that's the style of President of the House of Pekarová Adamová. You're scaring me! And I've been thinking about it for a long time if I ever say this, but you're a really bad person! You're a bad person and I've known you personally for years, you're a terrible person, an intolerant person and an extremely dangerous person, I must say. Because you don't worship democracy and freedom at all. And we see it on all the examples that I'm saying here. So this is what I wanted to add here, because there's a meeting here, you guys took a government holiday, I was ready to go to the House, but you took a Twitter, your government, you've got about enough time, Mr. Prime Minister, here I just recorded a picture of you and your wife taking pictures on a boat in Croatia, I don't know what the contribution of this photo is to the citizens of the Czech Republic, but just a month and a half since it wasn't the House, so it's a bit of a pile of stuff, even your comments, your behavior, and I just had to say it here. And even how simply Members of the TOP 09, I have already talked about it, as I am, your Members or your Members, your representatives, who have threatened me with death, who is here, your Member Kolář is taking pictures here in front of my house, to turn people against my family with the opposite opinion, simply this behavior as fascists somewhere like, or as Hitler, that's how I imagine it worked, that's exactly what the TOP 09 does. It's incredible what's going on here and where you're going. But do it your way. I'm not gonna tell you, I'm just telling you, I just have to fight it. So, let's go to that point, the other one I was talking about. That is what I would like to propose as the second item of today's meeting. And again, there's a huge increase in illegal migrants. We don't even hear this from the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan, because he doesn't have time for this, because he solves organized crime in STAN and he's making excuses all the time, now he's put that Mr. Petr Mlejnek, the head of the secret services, who's known to Petr Red for ten years, and I've heard those names for the first time all, and I've never heard that Petr Redl in my life, and I've never seen him, but it's, we all know that he's a close associate of the mob and criminal Radovan Krejčíř, so Mr. Rakušan doesn't have time, obviously, he's just driven from behind as a puppet, that's obvious here today. [[11.00 hours]] But let's go to the migration. The number of illegal inputs not only to the Czech Republic but also to the European Union has increased by 82 percent year on year during the five months of this year. It was 86,000 entrances. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency, Frontex, has reported this. In May alone, according to preliminary data, the number of illegal border crossings was more than 23,500, a year-on-year increase of 75 percent. These numbers do not include migrants from Ukraine or refugees from Ukraine. The most important among migrants are people from Arab, Muslim and African countries. They are Syřan, Afghánec, Egypťan, Bangladeshians, Tunisan, Nigerijec and Congo citizens. Of course, you can see from these countries that there is no war in those countries. For example, Tunisia, Egypt and the like, Bangladesh, and yet the borders of the European Union have opened wide. At the same time, there are no war refugees, and I am not even talking about the fact that international law is being violated here, that they should seek asylum in the first safe country, which is at least Turkey on its way. And yet Petr Fiala's government here isn't doing anything about it. You are not doing anything, you are not raising the subject, so what is the use of your Presidency in the European Union? If you're not doing anything? No benefit at all for the citizens. In addition to the fact that you are walking around and it costs CZK 2.24 billion to Czech citizens, which we could give just to help people with higher prices. So I wanted us to give this topic, too, and I, of course, have a constructive solution and a proposal for the SPD, as always. We always make a specific suggestion. The SPD simply rejects mass immigration, and we reject migration from Islamic and African countries to Europe, and we demand the possibility of controlling our borders so that the Czech Republic starts to control borders again. This does not mean that Czech citizens will be controlled and that there will be queues, but today it is without control, today it is like a colander, so it is necessary to check whether those illegal migrants are joining us, because I can see again that someone here is lying somewhere in the media that Okamura wants to control the Czech citizens, the fronts at the border. I've heard it from five-caliber government liars in the past. But that's not true. We want to control and ensure that illegal migrants are controlled so that people do not come to us illegally. So the terrorists couldn't get in here. And from the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, or from the government, from the Prime Minister, we hear absolutely nothing on these topics. Well, since you're fully on the European Union policy, and you're obsessive, why would you talk about it? That's why I have to design this place for the SPD. And we just want to protect our country. We want to protect Czech citizens and our families. Children, friends and property of citizens of the Czech Republic. And we in the SPD don't want us to end up like an Islamized Western Europe, where people are often afraid to go out on the street, not to be stabbed, murdered, or raped. So this is the problem, too. And I'd like us to put it as point two. Of course, you will reject it, you SPD both points, or all the points that we propose to change the agenda of the meeting, you will, of course, reject them. I know that. Your government coalition will reject them. But I think this subject should be raised, both of those topics, because you're not going to run away from the topics anyway. Only it will get worse and worse for the Czech Republic and for Czech citizens, and that is what is on my mind, because I would like us to live in a prosperous safe country. So I understand that the SPD has a different agenda, other than your government coalition, but we simply insist that the Czech Republic, the Czech citizen, security, prosperity and justice must come first and that is what we want to move forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And now President Radim Fiala will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Let me also suggest two points. They've already been mentioned here today, but I'm worried about them because I think they're the points that have been decided by us in the SPD about us leaning towards indistrust of the government, and they're crucial to us. The first point, of course, is the scandal that is about the appointment of Petr Mlejnek as Director of the Secret Service and actually the unprofessional work of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rakušan, who appointed him to this post. Madam President, the first point that I will mention here today is, for example, Kauz Petr Mlejnko and the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rakušan. Everyone, I think they'll know exactly what's going on today. The scandal around the appointment of Petr Mlejnek as director of civil intelligence is further deepening. Mlejnek, we have heard that here several times today, is long-term connected to Mafia groups Michal Redl, and despite being promoted by the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement. Prime Minister Petr Fiala cannot deal with the situation, which, in our view, basically closes his eyes to possible criminal actions. The solution would be if the President of the Republic filed a motion for the appeal of the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan. But the Prime Minister probably doesn't want to do that, because he would jeopardize the functioning of the entire government if the STAN had left this government, so, of course, she would have lost most of the majority in the majority, and it would have been a problem for the government. [[Parliament]] I think that's why the rest of the government is covering for this thing, covering for Mr. Rakušan, and they don't really care. Moreover, the Prime Minister said that Petr Mlejnek played a positive role in investigating the case of large-scale corruption and organised crime Dosimeter, in which politicians of the STAN movement manipulated a multimillion-dollar public contract of the Transport Company in cooperation with the mobsters in Prague. However, Lenka Bradáčová, head of Prague's High Prosecutor's Office, who oversees the investigation, said that she did not know anything about this Mlejnkův positive role. It's weird. The SA doesn't know anything about it, but so be it. I'm more interested to know when Mr. Petr Mlejnek said that he went to Mr. Redl for contracts, that he didn't know what Mr. Redl was. Not even a little kid can believe that, because if you write Mr Mlejnek's name on every smart phone, in two seconds, you'll have history. Not even a little child can believe that Mr. Mlejnek didn't know who he was talking to today. I think he knew too well because he went there for the contracts, like he said. But Mr. Redl doesn't have any company that he owns from which he could give him any contracts in the fields in which Mr. Mlejnek worked. So at this point, I would like to ask what kind of contracts Mr. Mlejnek has negotiated with Mr. Redl. Whether it was the contract of the Transport Company or whether it was the contract of other organizations in which the STAN movement sits. I think that would be interesting. And I'm convinced that the way we're talking about it here, it's undignified. Undignified Czech Parliament, that it is undignified Czech secret services, that there are just a lot of capable and decent people working in those secret services, and such discreditation is simply for a raised index finger, a lifted finger, and that secret services in other countries have to talk about it, and undoubtedly, it is shaking its head about what can happen in the Czech Republic. The Prime Minister's false statements seem to further deepen the already shaken public confidence in government, justice and secret services, and in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, they also threaten the security of the state. Moreover, it turns out that Petr Mlejnek does not even meet the qualification requirements. But we know that. That's what Minister Rakušan himself says if he doesn't get a top secret background check, he's gonna have to leave his post. But also granting clearance to a level secret to this person by the National Security Authority in the past raises serious doubts, because intelligence services have not conducted a comprehensive security investigation into Mlejnkův contacts from the business area where he has been active for the past 12 years, or have not made contact with the criminal environment. In addition, information has now come out in the media that the head of intelligence Mlejnek personally acquainted with former detective Luďk Vokál, who was convicted of corruption and disclosure of information from the police. [[11.10 hours]] At the same time Mlejnkův's wife, who is a teacher, is a co-owner of the company for protection against wiretapping, whose manager is the convicted police officer Vokál. Intel chief Mlejnek refuses to say whether he himself was involved in the business. These facts are further reasons for the immediate demise of Petr Fiala's government. Therefore, the SPD MP clearly supports the convocation of the House meeting to voice distrust on the Fialův Government and will also actively vote in favour of this distrust. So, Madam President, that was point number one, which I will repeat once again, is called kauza Petr Mlejnek and the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan. The second point that I have here is also related to creating distrust for the government, and it is, of course, an upheaval, inflation, energy, energy crisis. I propose it here because part of government officials and senators say that people will have to deal with it themselves, that they will have to bail out the financial problems that await them, or they will have to knit sweaters. I think it's a kind of arrogance that can't be easily crossed, and that's why I've decided to suggest that we all talk about this, too. Since an extraordinary meeting is proposed, which should start 15 minutes after this normal meeting, I am simply convinced that, of course, the programme for the extraordinary meeting proposed by the SPD and the ANO movement for the energy crisis will not be approved, so all Members will not be able to express themselves and I would like to express themselves. That means I'm going to try to open the debate with this extraordinary point. Let me comment on that. We saw how the government coalition with great pomp brought in the so-called austerity tariff. The cost-effective tariff means that each household gets approximately CZK 1,200 a month. Which reminds me of a situation where we approved government aid in terms of rising fuel prices, when the government approved a savings of CZK 1.50 per litre for citizens. But before she could put it into practice, of course, people didn't even find out that the government was doing any help because the prices were going up so fast that people didn't even find out that the government wanted to help those fuel people. So it's a very similar situation. It's just helping not to help. As some political colleagues from previous years would have said, it is such a government failure to help citizens of the Czech Republic. So let's focus on what real help would be. I think real help is to not solve the consequences of what's happening, but to solve the causes. Solving the result means giving someone a thousand crowns, you're going to pay one hundredth of what he's really going to have to spend on what happened financially, but the cause still stands. Now that the government says that it has given 177 billion to the solution - not to fight inflation, as the Prime Minister said, that is not true. She put this in order to address the consequences of the energy crisis and inflation. There are, of course, the valorisation of pensions and the like. All right, I say, this year we give 170 billion, in a year we give 170 billion, and in three years we end up like Sri Lanka, and it's all gonna collapse because we're not gonna have any more of that money. The whole state budget is just gonna go bust. So it's just not a solution, but the solution is to eliminate the causes of the energy crisis. That means, clearly, we're saying leave the energy commodity exchange. Of course, in order to comply with the law, the dividends of CEZ's half-state enterprise to compensate minority shareholders, because the law must also be respected in these matters. Of course, minority shareholders have interests. Unfortunately, this was also a mistake in the past when ČEZ was being sold. It is a security infrastructure, a strategic infrastructure where CEZ is to be 100% owned by the Czech state. Because, of course, minority shareholders have completely different interests than the majority shareholder, and that is the state. The minority shareholders want to obtain as much dividends as possible and do not want to build other power plants, other blocks, because of course it is losing funds to the ČEZ and that will make the dividend smaller. But we, the state, mean all citizens of the Czech Republic, are interested in drowning or lighting at affordable prices. That's our concern. So this is where the interests of the two shareholders go completely wrong. In my opinion, there is no other option but to return ČEZ to the state. Buy out the shares, and when we get over 90 percent, the rest of the shareholders are gonna come up. Unfortunately, that's the only way. The state has made several such mistakes. He sold part of CEZ, sold part of the gas dealer. Maybe you don't remember, there was a Transgas joint stock company that was a gas dealer for the Czech Republic. It was sold. Now we're buying Russian gas from Germany. The Němec buy it for six crowns. There it is democratizing for another 20 crowns and for 27 crowns we will buy democratic gas here in the Czech Republic. Instead of having a gas trader here for energy security reasons and buying gas directly from producers and having a gas trader like Hungary, Austria, Germany and other countries. So we're gonna have to get it again, too. These things, for the sake of, I repeat, energy security, we see that they are a problem. I would also like us to diversify the sources of gas producers. If anyone here has another source that will be affordable, let them come with it and we'll be happy and we'll all be happy to have any other affordable source of gas. But unfortunately, it doesn't seem that way at the moment. And I don't think it's even true what the government says that gas is secured for the whole winter because the government has signed memoranda of solidarity with some European states, especially Germany. I am convinced that, once the gas runs out, any solidarity will cease to apply. We saw it at the time of the covide. We just saw here that those states would start thinking about themselves, and no European solidarity would just work in an emergency. I think we'll all know in the winter. We will also have to buy Czech refineries again. We sold them, too, because it was a bargain business. But the refineries have raised their margins 33 times in the last month. And here we are, crushing our traders, our petrol stations, which have minimal margins, because whoever has those margins, and whoever is charging it, are refineries, unfortunately not Czech, in foreign hands. We sold it, we sold it to the Polák. So Polák ride for 33 crowns because they have business in the Czech Republic and because they have something to subsidize it from. Most of the gas is sold to us by Maďar because we don't have a Czech dealer here. So 60 percent of the gas is sold to us by Maďar in the hands of the state. These are incredible things in terms of energy security, completely incomprehensible. [[11.20 hours]] I say that some next government, which will not jump to Brussels and will not jump to Washington, but also Moscow and other cities, but will jump to what the citizens of the Czech Republic want, will have to buy these things back, because otherwise we will continue to slap each other between borders. I would like to say that the government is not dealing with the crisis, the government is only deepening it, and all this at a time when only in the last two months the price of electricity has doubled on the European energy exchange, and one megawatt hour of power electricity has already cost more than CZK 18,000, when it was CZK 5,500 two months ago. The wholesale price of natural gas continues to rise, which currently attacks on the stock exchange at a conversion limit of CZK 6 000 per megawatt hour. So if the government can't do anything about it, then I say, and why I suggest it, I say that there is a disaster here, that there is a threat of a deep recession in the Czech industry, economy, agriculture, food industry, and of course there is also an increase in unemployment and social reconciliation. These are very important things, why we are proposing an extraordinary meeting here, why I propose an extraordinary point and why we also want to vote on distrust of the government. Because the government can't handle it. It's a simple matter. So that was the second point. We have a solution to this, we have ten times from the crisis to stability, the energy crisis to stability, we present it everywhere, we present it mainly to citizens, so that they know that there is a way. But you can't be a sidekick either from the left or from the right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, too. Mr President, let me just get this straight is the same point as the extraordinary meeting, what do you propose? The other one?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u26	You can write there, Madam President, that the second point is called... the Government does not handle the energy crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u27	Yes. And do you want to place the point firmly or just a new point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u28	Just a new point. We can place this... like the first point of the program today and the second point as the second point. We will also vote on inclusion. But it's not going to happen, because that's the way it is. But I'm just gonna suggest that my performance is complete.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u29	Yeah, okay. So the government can't handle the energy crisis. Yes? Thank you. [[Member Radim Fiala: Thank you, too.]] And now with priority rights, President Alena Schillerová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to propose a point on the topic of the Energy Crisis at the proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today, and I would like to place it firmly as item number 2 of today's meeting. And now, let me justify it, although I think it is clear from the very title what I am specifically interested in. We meet here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies during the period when the Czech Republic has, according to the latest data published by Eurostat for July 2022, the largest level of consumer inflation measured by the harmonised index of consumer prices across the European Union in the Baltic countries. The higher inflation rate reported is only in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia from EU countries. All these three countries have inflation of over 20 percent. And the five-calice probably wants to make it this far. Apparently, she chose it as her role model. I'll start with a few numbers. The current inflation rate measured by Eurostat is 17.3% in the Czech Republic. You have seen that the Czech Statistical Office measured it as 17.5 percent. For comparison purposes, all our neighbours have it at a significantly lower level: Slovakia, the country that shares the border with Ukraine, has an inflation rate of 12.8 percent. Germany, our main business partner, 8.5%. Other of our neighbors also have a significantly lower level of inflation than we do. In Austria it is 9.4 %, in Poland it is 14.2 %. And the average inflation rate across the European Union is 9.8%. None of these numbers are anything any politician could be satisfied with. But almost half the inflation rate in the EU, compared to our inflation, clearly indicates that the situation of Czech households and Czech companies is extremely poor throughout the EU. Moreover, the rate of inflation that we follow in the Czech Republic is the rate reported by the Czech Statistical Office, which, unlike Eurostat, also quantifys imputed rents, which means so-called own housing. According to the ČSÚ calculation, the inflation rate is even higher, 17.5 percent, as I said a while ago. According to the recently published macroeconomic forecast by the Ministry of Finance, the average inflation rate for the whole year 2022 is estimated to be 16.2 %, which means that the Czech Ministry of Finance is counting on inflation rates to be at least 20 percent in the second half of 2022. It follows to me that Petr Fiala's current cabinet apparently threw Czech citizens overboard. And just to add, I'm going to mention that the Ministry of Finance is counting on an average inflation rate of 8,8% for 2023. Sometimes I feel that some colleagues see these figures as just interesting numbers for TV interviews, but they no longer perceive what is really behind these numbers. So let me zoom in on these numbers. Just a week ago I had the opportunity to meet thousands of people throughout the Czech Republic, specifically we were in the Moravian-Silesian Region, I visited Nový Jičín, Kopřivnice, Frenštát pod Radhoštěm, Frýdek-Místek, Český Těšín, Karvina, Havířov, Hlučín, Ludgeřovice, Kravaře, Krnov, Opava, Hradec nad Moravicí, Ostrava, Bohumín, Rychvald, Orlovou and Třinec. And I've been discussing with these people in those squares, at those meetings. And they told me about their difficulties with paying energy bills, gas, food, but also fuel, fare to work. The students told me a lot about the fare they're paying now and how much they paid for our government, buying school supplies for the new school year. Young people were talking about how their dream of owning their own homes slipped away. I have heard from people how really poor they are, how frightened they are from the coming period and how they have lost confidence in this government and lose confidence in this state. And I will return to numbers again because these concerns of our fellow citizens are not empty. For 2022, the aforementioned macroeconomic forecast envisages a decrease in the real average gross wage by less than 7.6 %, with a decrease of up to 10 percent in the third quarter. In 2023, the real average monthly wage is to decrease further by 2.1 % and in 2024 there is to be a slight increase in real wages, but according to the published outlook we will in no way reach the level of 2021. In 2025, we will be moving at the level of real wages of 2018. Hard numbers, traceable in the official sources of the Treasury. This poverty associated with the involvement of hundreds of thousands of migrants from Ukraine, accompanied by a possible increase in unemployment and still threatening energy blackouts, can lead to a loss of social reconciliation in the Czech Republic. [[11.30 hours]] This is something that our government has always actively fought against in a time of health crisis, and we have succeeded in achieving it. In two years, when we were forced to prevent the spread of infectious diseases, we were forced to take a number of restrictive measures, many of you remember that, and we discussed them here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies many times in the last parliamentary term. Even then, confidence indicators did not fall to the levels at which they are currently at. Five-calice, less than a year later, was able to lose the social peace that our government fought hard for during the medical crisis. I just opened the News List, and the main message that jumped up on me was that Prime Minister Petr Fial's popularity was falling, and Europe's premiere was the worst. 78 percent of the people don't trust him, while 22 percent of the respondents hold the opposite position. Eight out of ten inhabitants of the Czech Republic also think that the country is going in the wrong direction. And when you look at that graph, indeed, of the world's leaders of politicians, Petr Fiala is in the penultimate last place behind the leader in South Korea, 78 percent of people don't trust him after less than a year of government. According to the prestigious Brussels Bruegel Institute, the Czech Republic is the second weakest in providing aid in the energy crisis. The aid provided in the Czech Republic is the lowest, together with Denmark throughout the European Union, and this institute counts - Bruegel has included in this aid the forgiveness of VAT on energy and gas, which was approved by our government for November and December. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not my numbers or the numbers of the YES movement. This is something that was quantified by independent foreign institutions. I have nothing to do with her or the ANO movement. The same institute evaluated covido assistance, traceable on my social networks, at the Ministry of Finance's website, where we showed it every month, and believe me, we had nothing to be ashamed of. After all, I have to stop at that value-added tax waiver. In the second half of last year we started to feel significant inflationary pressures in the Czech Republic, which were imported to us as a result of a number of factors from abroad. So I responded to the sharp increase in energy prices on the world markets as Minister of Finance with a general pardon of added value for the supply of electricity or gas for November and December last year, of course I had the authority of our government. This step was shown, let me evaluate it, for November according to the Czech Statistical Office, by reducing electricity prices by more than 16 percent, by more than 11 percent, and for inflation it had an impact that it had decreased by 1 percentage point. Our government also approved a proposal for an amendment to the VAT Act, which would free the supply of electricity and gas by the entire amount of VAT, that is 21 percent, for the whole year 2022, we could have already had it here. This step would reduce the impact of the increase in energy prices for all residents, all Czech households without exception. Unfortunately, our proposal was swept under the table by the current government and, similarly, our proposal for a temporary pardon for fuel was rejected by the government, which would have an impact not only on transport prices but also on other sectors. Even that was repeatedly, even though we have prepared it as an MP's proposal, thrown off the table. You know, we've initiated an emergency meeting several times, and there's always been no program allowed. At the same time, this government coalition has new strong resources from which it can draw. Minister Stanjura wants to tax sectors that achieve extraordinary profits, we still read something different every now and then, but hopefully the coalition will come to an agreement. According to the latest reports, the energy industry, banking or, now I've read, fuel manufacturers and distributors. Minister Stanjura talks about how these sectors should be involved in helping Czech citizens because he believes they are making undeserved profits. This supposedly right-wing politician forgets, however, that the primary sector that benefits from current inflation is the state, and it is now, in the form of a five-wheeler, at least involved in helping citizens and companies. Only this year, according to the amendment to the State Budget Act, which this government has sent to Parliament and is already lying here waiting for its discussion, will state budget revenues be increased by 127.2 billion, almost 130 billion, compared to the proposal, when this budget was being prepared by our government. These revenues should be transformed immediately into aid for all Czech citizens and Czech companies. However, Petr Fiala's cabinet has other resources - the state-owned CEZ, which had a net profit for the first half of the year of 33.6 billion, and for the whole year it will be a profit of around CZK 65 billion. Similarly, revenues from state enterprises such as the Forests of the Czech Republic, Budvar, where they are increased by another 4 billion. And there are also extraordinary funds from the European Union to use them. Work with it. Be competent! Despite purchasing power, we have the most expensive price of electricity and the fifth highest price of gas for consumers in the European Union. At the same time, our movement is constantly offering a helping hand. We have discussed our proposal for temporary VAT remission here several times, as I said, and it has always ended with the same result, with the flagrant lack of interest of the government coalition to address the situation and respond to it. The vast majority of European Union countries are taking major measures in the field of state tax policy or pricing to help their citizens and companies, only the Czech Prime Minister reads Nietzsche on vacation and is completely distracted from the reality of ordinary Czech households. An example can be our neighbour Germany, which has a significantly higher debt ratio than the Czech Republic, i.e. 69.3% of GDP. Germany came with a tax advantage of EUR 300, which is about CZK 7,400, reducing fuel prices for three months, the government increased the contribution from EUR 0.35 to 0.38, from around CZK 8 to CZK 9, per kilometre for persons arriving at work more than 21 kilometres. The Němec do not forget their low-income residents, they have released CZK 3.17 billion into one-off aid. A very reasonable step was taken by the Němec also on public transport, when they introduced a preferential ticket. On the other hand, we have a five-wheeler that is costing the fare. Germany will also temporarily reduce value added tax on natural gas from a normal 19% rate to 7 per cent in order to relieve consumers of high energy prices. All of this goes in a country that is significantly more indebted than we are. Then why not with us? I ask the representatives of this government, I ask the Prime Minister. About last week, it flies terribly, maybe it's 10 days, I liked the statement of German finance minister Christian Lindner, who said he thought it was immoral for the government to keep the revenue that it collected from inflation. So that's exactly what we're calling for. Now people are in trouble. Now. I remember you guys fighting in here in your boobs and challenging us in the time of the covidal crisis, that it was all little, that even more and more thicket. The statements of today's Prime Minister and then leader of the opposition, the Fiala, about help being quick, flat, you forgot, you woke up in those positions, and suddenly you're not interested in the citizens, and you're not interested in the companies that you've been cursing the flows with. [[11.40 hours]] Rady type less to drown, less to shine, buy sweaters for the winter was enough. The guru himself and the father of the founder of one of the government parties, TOP 09, Miroslav Kalousek said in Events and comments - I simply could not forgive the quote here to say. I quote: "I wonder why, instead of taxing energy companies, the Ministry does not consider regulating their price. For us, the difference between cost price and market price is huge. And maybe it would be a lot easier for the state, for the companies and for the recipients - than to tax the sector and redistribute it, so just regulate its price. We wouldn't even have to leave the lip stock market, we'd be selling surpluses. I couldn't find a single reason not to regulate the price." I couldn't forgive myself. The former minister often lectured us here, advised us. You've been leaning on him a lot, so why not now? A moment ago, I read, and my honored colleague, the captain of the Moravian-Silesian Region, our MP, the chairman of the school committee, Professor Vondrák, spoke with it, and it's actually the main news in the Journals, the authorities are calling on the government to regulate, calling for you to do something. Who else is supposed to tell you? Everyone's already telling you that. You're already being fired from your own ranks. So please wake up. Controlling the price of ANO electricity has been demanding and calling as one of the options for combating rising prices for many months. But your motto seems to be what the House President Markéta Pekarová told Adamová that the government is not supposed to care about people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Havlíček will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u32	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for the inclusion of the Energy Price Reduction point and I will explain why. This is no longer a crisis, this is a collapse. This was not just said by the opposition, not only by the people, by the companies, this was said a few tens of minutes ago by the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, which strongly asks the government, a five-calice, to immediately open negotiations on the ceiling of energy prices. I'm quoting what everyone knows is that five-callices have a vast majority in the regions. Do you remember how many times I have spoken here, at least ten times, on Parliament's soil, about the need to forgive payments for renewable resources? Do you remember how I said that I'm glad you're telling me this in the machine guns, that it could be quite an elegant solution, but at the same time that government officials can't hear it at all? Minister Síkela laughed at us when we said that he didn't need any instruction, especially from us, that he had his own solution. Yes, the solution turned out to be that, in the end, payments for renewable resources were actually forgiven. To be precise, they will forgive, because there has been a certain time frame, so it will not be until October, three quarters of a year after we asked for it. As a result, what is forgiven as part of the payments for renewable resources is already so marginal, so much below discernment that it is basically losing its meaning. Why didn't it happen in the spring when we said so? Why in God's name doesn't anyone listen to us for a while? aby me být this straight. Today's electricity price is seventeenfold higher than it was two years ago, and today's gas price on the daily market is thirty-sevenfold higher than it was two years ago. What are we waiting for? What's the government waiting for? Until the economy, the economy, the small businesses, the big companies, the households, but even today public institutions, schools, hospitals won't really have enough to pay for it? We are in a situation in which we have not yet been in the energy sector. We do not blame the government for rising energy prices in world markets. We blame the government for the fact that, thanks to the laxity and late measures, we are now in a situation where, despite purchasing power, we have the highest electricity prices throughout Europe. I'll take July, see how August turns out. But we're already in charge. As far as support is concerned, we are the second worst in the whole of the European Union. This is the result of this government. The precautions are late. These measures are extremely small. If I had taken the fact that the unfortunate one, I would almost say the desperate energy-inconvenient tariff that the government has now presented and which will introduce with great pomp in the autumn, would make sense, as if it were extremely complicated in my opinion, not even the one who is preparing it, I would still take that the savings that will be there in the order of three to four thousand crowns in 2022 on the household make sense. But in another space-time. That would make sense in February, March, as we suggested. And if it's done through the tariff or through the forgiveness of any other payment or any special support, it's the other thing. Again, it's unnecessarily complicated. But we are... or it will be introduced in the fall. It will no longer be three or four times the price of energy, but thirty-seven times the price of energy. I don't understand why the government didn't at least make it pay in 2022. Why wait until 2023? I know why. Because it's being saved in the budget. So it changed to 2023. At least the gesture could have been made by the government, and the tariff could have been paid in 2022. But the tariff is no longer merely "wearing the dead chambermaid. " The tariff has lost its meaning. The only chance we have today to get out of this is to follow other European countries, in the form of a ceiling. That has its advantages and disadvantages, and that's why I suggested this point. Where else to discuss this than here? We want to see how the government is ready for further action, for further solutions. When it comes down to it, the conditions in the European Union will be aligned. It is not normal for electricity to be paid for in the single European energy market, or more in one country and another as in the Czech Republic - or the other way around. This means that in the Czech Republic it is paid tenfold more. I'm comparing it to the southern countries, but today in the finals and Slovakia. It's fair if the tariff is made because it's for both companies and businessmen and households, but for schools and hospitals and so on. We can't see the county telling us where your deputies are, they won't have schools to pay for their energy. I mean, we can see that. So is the hospital. Well, next thing you know, it's predictable. Do you remember when you chased us at the time of the covid, and you said, "your measures must at least be a little predictable"? I understood. Where's the predictableness today? We can at least meet this factor in this ceiling, and those who have to pay for the energy, such as companies, businesses and so on, which logically employs here, will know for at least half a year, for the year on which they are. Of course, it has its minuses. It's got a whole series of question marks. It's a matter of time, especially with regard to that - and I believe we are all aware of that, although I have a feeling that the Minister of Industry has yet to see from this. Even if it does happen today, unfortunately, it doesn't apply to everyone right now because they have to look at fixations. For example, ČEZ has been sold almost for the whole of next year. This means that this is a serious situation and every week when it will shift, so we have a big problem because we have logically shifted the ceiling and it would have to be dealt with by then, for example, from the profit of ČEZ, which is logical because it will have very high, and it can immediately be allocated to support. It has to be combined. It has to be dealt with on the financial side. It's not true, and I don't understand why it's considered that any ceiling will fall on the state budget. How did we figure that out? It's not that the state has to pay everyone right away, the producers. It is a question first of all to discuss with them. I don't know why the minority shareholders of ČEZ are no longer being dealt with, or with others, because here we have three producers, three energy producers, or three main energy producers. So I don't understand why it didn't try. And there are other tools for others. Among other things, one of your members and a significant person of five-calice policy suggests, and this is Mr Miroslav Kalousek. And it's not a bad solution at all, what he's suggesting, however much of a critic I am, or we disagree on a whole series of things. Pragmatically, he says: put it on a certain amount and what manufacturers will sell to you for a higher amount, tax 95 percent. Yes, this is the way, too. If we want, it's kind of a mix of sector tax and cropping. [[11.50 hours]] There are more models. We can watch them do it in Spain, Portugal, where they just went through energy producers and gave them a strict price at a level - let's listen well - forty euros. Yes, in Spain, Portugal, in the Iberian market, energy is now produced and sold for an amount of EUR 40, electricity, I think, for an amount of EUR 700. Are we even aware of the situation? But we can also go the French way - and another model again. They set it up so that the increase in energy prices from manufacturers can only be up to a certain percentage, although I personally think it is too late, the French road, it should have been caught sooner. There's also a Slovak road so we don't go far. There they did it by placing it at EUR 61, but only for households and for small and medium-sized companies and businessmen and with large firms playing it differently, creating a different system of support. It may be mixed in different ways, but please, let's talk about it! We want to see the government proposals! We want to hear how the government has planned to buy out events from ČEZ. For your information, even in France, they concluded that the shares of EDF's minority shareholders had to be redeemed. I think we all know that EDF is French CEZ, significantly larger because it has 56 reactors. And they said that about the same time that our government said it might be a journey, which was sometime in June, in the middle of this year. And do you know when they said it would be done, swept, ready? In the fall of this year. Our government said it's taking a year to analyze her decision, which means halfway through 2023. Well, that's gonna be analyzed for a year. Then it will be evaluated, and we are in 2024 and we can do better with prices at the end of 2024. [[Something]] So that's the speed, that's the action, that's the action, that's the signals. I think all of us here would like to hear what the next idea is for the Lips Stock Exchange. I know you're gonna tell me it's in ČEZ's jurisdiction, and we agree. It also relates to how ČEZ will work, whether minority shareholders' shares will be redeemed, whether they will split into two parts, which is on the table today, part of the business, part of the production, part of the dirty, part of the clean. There are a number of variants that we have already discussed with ČEZ, and this was not an energy crisis. But we have enough energy experts to work on it quickly. What are we waiting for? We've been through 200 cities lately, over the summer. We've met tens of thousands of residents. And I can tell you that the Leipzig Stock Exchange is something that he's asking, now I don't want to overdo it, maybe every tenth. You must know that when your neighbors, your friends, your friends ask you that. Then why aren't we dealing with this? What are we waiting for? I understand that state insured people are important things, I understand that NATO is important, but please explain to the people who are looking at us that we will not be willing to discuss energy problems today and, in my opinion, the only possible solution, and that is the ceiling on energy prices. The President of the country is calling for this. This is what your colleagues from the regions have been calling for, and we have been calling for this as opposition for several days, perhaps even weeks. Believe it, it's going to go exactly the same way as with the renewables. First you laugh at us, then you come up with your own solution, and then you do it plus minus what we said. The problem here is different: we will end up with a huge number of companies here, households will reach the poverty line, and we will all have problems with institutions such as schools, such as hospitals and the like. And you can tell me one more argument: but the ceiling you'd like isn't going so fast. And I also agree that it is not a matter of a few days or maybe weeks, the more so that it has to be dealt with by ČEZ and so on. But then we have to create a regime until it happens. And there is no regime other than the use of profit from ČEZ because CEZ has gigantic profits. And we can talk about whether we're going to put a price on it so it's going to be lower, so people are going to have lower energy prices, or until that happens, we're going to take that profit and we're going to use it, we're going to redistribute it for households, for companies, for other institutions. But I didn't hear that either. The only thing that is constantly apologizing is that it is working with profit from ČEZ, we all know that, from 2021. But I'm talking about the year 2022, when it's going to be extremely high and when we have undivided profits from past years in ČEZ. Why isn't the general meeting done, why isn't it over? Instead, we are going to lend ČEZ CZK 74 billion to secure itself on the stock market, the Lips Stock Exchange, from which it buys expensive energy. This is inexplicable, however I understand the economic intention of Čez and I understand that ČEZ needs the money. As much as I understand that cash flow doesn't equal the result, we all know that. I don't understand why the government didn't give Čez a guarantee and ČEZ didn't go to the market to borrow the money. On the contrary, the government should have thought about how to get the money out of ČEZ, withdraw it and use it to support it. But that's a whole series of other questions that I think we all understand. And I understand that we can have different views on taxes. But please, let us explain to people today that we remain calm as turtles at a time when we have thirty-seven times higher gas prices and seventeen times higher electricity prices. No one will understand, and neither will your supporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thus, the ceiling on energy prices is a proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u34	And we'll do it as a second point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u35	As a second point, well, thank you. Minister Blažek will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor. Sorry, Mr. Lang will be ready later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u36	Well, hello. Thank you for the floor. In fact, I want to respond to all previous speakers, and I will take that sentence from my colleague Havlíček's speech that we are laughing at opposition proposals somehow. Well, I'm not laughing at opposition. I even see the situation worse than some of the speeches I hear from the opposition. And let me tell you why. It is obvious that the social situation and the atmosphere are probably the most dramatic since 1989. Unless the energy crisis is resolved, the country's political system is at risk. If there is no Europe-wide solution, the European Union is even at risk as such, which the party I represent does not want. I agree with that, and I think that there is no other way to think about what is popularly called a price cap. I would just like to point out that the price ceiling is a more complex problem, which is why I am acting on the legal side. So far, I've been hearing from various lawyers that I can't. I want to tell the House that I'm not going to do anything but find a legal solution to make it work, that I don't like the word, and please try to explain in what sense, in my opinion, it should be What can not be explained to any citizen of this state, not to Pavel Blažek, is how they grow so disproportionately the margins of producers and traders. In other words, the price ceiling does not have to be that the state is going to say a certain price level and then in a few years it will pay traders and manufacturers some amount for something I would call cost of production and so on. It is possible, in my opinion, and perhaps it can also be done in the legal way, to put a stop to what is called a margin of production, which means that there would be no dispute over damages, because there is no legal claim for something like profit in my opinion. The solution must be found, because if I am telling you that this country's political system is at risk, the law has not been created to formally hinder us from certain solutions that are necessary. This means yes, and it may also be necessary to use extraordinary means, which will also be needed at the edge of the law. But if something doesn't happen, then I would like to say to the opposition that I am aware that when it calls for a vote on distrust of the government, it is a kind of formal decision by the House. If the government doesn't solve the energy crisis, it won't be here for long anyway. And I want to tell you that I am completely aware of this, and we will try, including me, to do our utmost to prevent this situation from happening. Because there might not only be a fall in one government, but there might be something I fear most, and I will deliberately call it a revolution here, and by far not just in our country. I hope no one wants that. I want to ask the opposition - I will read her proposals - to know that the social situation - I know that there will be elections - is not going to be any more heated, which is very difficult because both sides are to blame for the escalation of the situation. I won't blame the opposition for doing this unilaterally. There are a lot of unnecessary and dramatic statements of each other in these difficult times, and we should try to moderate in this, so that we do not disperse those citizens even more than it is now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. So no new point, Minister, you're not suggesting. Just a reminder that we are at the point of proposals for changes to the programme. pardon, President Alena Schillerová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u38	I understand that, in order to comply formally with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a response programme to the speech of the Minister of Justice. [[point]] That's what I think is legitimate. You don't have to assign it. At the end of today's meeting. I would like to appreciate the speech by Minister Blažek, because this is probably the first time this government has worked here, when I have heard constructive, factual performances. I'm a little sorry that I'm just saying in quotes, but please, it's in quotes, I'm saying it with all due respect, only the Minister of Justice didn't perform like that, with all due respect, that the Prime Minister didn't perform like that, that one of the economic ministers, whether the Minister of Industry and Trade, whether the Minister of Finance, we never heard it. Never. And I, Minister, realize the words you say, I perceive the appeal. I'm not gonna be here to remind you of the different billboards that hang on D1 and elsewhere, I'm not gonna be, 'cause that's just gonna add oil to the fire. I know you were just talking to both sides. But what I'm saying is that if we're standing in the squares and in front of us really the hundreds, like in Poruba, according to the police, it was 1,200 people and so on, they want us to be their voice in the House. They're begging us to be their hopes, and they're begging us to call on these things to discuss them. If this is meant to be serious and if your voice in the government sounds in this direction, we always lend a helping hand, my colleague Karel Havlíček said so a moment ago. We're always ready to cooperate. We also offered our know-how and great experience. And we didn't do everything right. We and the squares say, our government has made a whole series of mistakes, and we would have done a whole series of things differently today. But we did it with the best of consciousness and conscience, with an open heart, and we tried to help. And when a pretty large group of businessmen came to me during the trip to say thank you for, like, a bonus bonus, I have to honestly say, it warmed my heart. And I say that knowing that not everything was 100%. But the worst that can happen, and those people consider it and compare it when the government sticks its head in the sand and does nothing at all. So if your words were meant to be, I take them. But this voice must also be heard by the government, and you must be able to enforce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken turns in the management of the meeting. In order to get my notes straight, Madam President, you have come up with a new point to put him on the agenda, and that point is called Response to the speech of Minister Blažek. [[Yes.]] Okay. Thank you. I noted the point. We will therefore proceed according to the agenda duly applied for. Next up is Mr Lang's enrollment and Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u40	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Members of the Government, colleagues, I would like to speak with the inclusion of a new item in the meeting. I don't care where this point is going to be placed, whether it's the last point or the first point. I would call that point the Reorganization of NCOZ in the context of the investigation of the corruption case the Dosimeter of organized crime of the STAN movement and the role of the Minister of Interior of Mr Rakušan on this matter. I take advantage of this opportunity to make a little history of this current five-calice government and as a member of the Security Committee, where we often do not have enough room to ask questions and answers in the context of the fact that we have tried several times in the form of an interpellation to ask about certain matters of the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan. Some questions have been answered, some questions have not been answered. So let's go back a little bit into history. The current government has been in power for about 8 months. The Ministry of the Interior is led by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Chairman of the Mayors and independent Mr. Rakušan. Even as the nominee for the position of Home Secretary, when it was not yet fully known whether the government would really be appointed, he meets with certain officials, Mr. Švejdar's then police president, and he then announces that he will resign from office. The police president at that time was not at the end of his mandate, he was about halfway through his mandate, and without any further determination he declared what he had said and was leaving. With him goes his economic deputy. There is a tender and Mr. Vondrášek, the first Deputy Police President of the time, enters the position of Police President. He's gonna go away for a while, and we've learned on the Security Committee that there's gonna be a police reorganization, and there's gonna be a reorganization of NCOZ as a specific unit. And NCOZ for Mr Šlachta, it's just a department that saves some things in the long run, that is, I've had the opportunity to work with this department in several cases in my professional career and so on, that is, an organized group, for example, wondering how it works, how it's perfect, how excellent it is, colleagues from NCOZ, investigators work, work and then realize the group. It was not clear to me as a member of the Security Committee as soon as the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan took up his position as Minister of the Interior, there were such fundamental changes in that corps. The police president is leaving. The economic deputy is leaving. A new police president will appear, he will appear before us on the Security Committee with the NCOZ reorganisation, and his new deputy to SKPV, under whom NCOZ belongs, Mr Kubík, is understood by the current head of NCOZ, Mr Mazánek. The so-called Reforma Working Group has been running in the police security system, which has been meeting and dealing with some changes since 2019. At the time, Mr Hamáček, Minister of the Interior, was thinking about setting up a National Criminal Agency, where certain SKPV units would fall and so on. And there was still no match. Suddenly, following the arrival of the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan, everything moved very significantly forward, and all of these officials whom I have appointed have agreed that it is necessary to reorganize the National Headquarters against organised crime by dividing this department into two components. This means that NCOZ will remain and will form a new entity that will be called TEK - terrorism, extremism and cybercrime. The Minister of the Interior has given his consent, and the police officials are now to choose, to generate some new head of this newly formed department, whom the Minister of the Interior will already appoint Austrian. Terrorism, extremism, cybercrime - it should be a body that monitors these speeches in society. It should have approximately 150 spreadsheets. And the current NCOZ workers were given the opportunity to choose whether they wanted to stay in the current NCOZ or skip over and transfer to this new unit. This new unit will also have its analyst. He'll have his operational means of searching. I really don't know at the moment when NCOZ is dealing with a personnel base of about 30 percent of vacant tables, whether or not it was appropriate to dismantle this NCOZ. And may I ask here as a politician of the opposition movement YES - was there any intention in that? Wasn't there any intention of the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan? Wasn't there any intention of the STAN movement to dismantle this formation and try - and that's why I called it actually at this point in my point in connection with the Dosimeter corruption case - to stop NCOZ's activities? Perhaps in a naive attempt to stop something that has been watched for some time and what has been worked out for some time? [[12.10 hours]] I really don't know. That's why I'm actually asking about it, and I'm asking about it here on the forum, and I'm going to ask about it. There's a real shadow of suspicion left. By actually weakening NCOZ, maybe - again I ask - there may have been some sort of attempt to stop the Dozimeter case, that huge corruption scandal of the Mayors and independents, when NCOZ himself says it's about increasing organized crime to the top floors of the police. It can't be stopped. The NCOZ had it worked out since 2019, 2020 as it is now appearing, and Mr. Mlejnek, in fact, followed up with the witness, who made an honest statement today, when the current head of the ÚZSI prepared him for two or three years in some way to go to the police to report something. Two or three years, that's kind of weird. And the situation actually fits in with this wheel. Mr Švejdar leaves in the middle of his term of office, not expressing himself. Yesterday, on the Security Committee, we heard from the Home Secretary that at a meeting where he was still only the nominee for the Home Secretary, he clearly told Mr. Švejdar that he did not count on him further, that it was not just his opinion, but that this was the opinion of Mr. Fiala's future Prime Minister, so Mr. Švejdar understood that he did not actually count on him after 35 years. This person, who has spent 35 years in the police force enjoying the authority of the police force, is now self-employed, somewhere cutting wood in the woods. This is how we took care of this official, this man, who just gave 35 years to this state. Mr. Švejdar left. He didn't want to cause any problems. He found that he simply did not have a chance to win this against the current minister, and, in fact, if it was still consecrated by the Prime Minister, he did not want to lose his allowance, logically he did not want any problems to come upon him, and he kept quiet. He kept his mouth shut until the day before yesterday, when he gave his first statement to the journalists, when on a direct question about what Mr. Rakušan told him about what had happened there, he said yes, Mr. Rakušan told me that he did not count on me and does not count on the former head of the UZSI, Mr. Šimandl. This was made clear. Yesterday, the Home Secretary told us it wasn't true. So we have a claim against the claim. I don't see why Mr. Švejdar would make that up today. He is a civilian, free of all worries, simply self-employed, working somewhere with wood, so in the context of all these things I trust him rather than the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, who constantly changes depending on the situation, how investigative journalists, or how Mr Kroupa uncovers some of his other sources. I'm not saying that's a good thing. I'm not saying it's a good thing NCOZ has information that they're leaking files and stuff. I ask again, isn't it just a desperate effort by NCOZ investigators to simply point out some things when it is seen that there is some attempt to sweep these things under the carpet? Another thing I would like to say is that I don't like it a little bit in the context of today's heated time. We have a Dozimetr case. We have Mr. Redl here, who, in some way, has become a person of inconvenient, a person who has simply avoided the taking of the sentence, a person who has been associated with Mr. Krejčíř. It's a big affair that goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Mr. Redl nicknamed myšák, Mr. Deputy in Prague Hlubuček nicknamed slepičák, Mr. Dovhomilja, to say it correctly, nicknamed Gucci and other persons who are actually linked in this huge corruption case of the STAN movement, the biggest corruption scandal in the last period that has ever appeared. It's a huge shame, it's a huge disgrace to the STAN movement, and I really don't understand what's weird about the fact that we as opposition are clearly calling for it, and we're not just saying it, the journalists are saying it, the public is saying it, too - Minister of the Interior Austrian, Chairman of the STAN, Chairman of the Party, which is somewhat affected by this corruption scandal, step away from the position of Home Secretary, accept another resort, a resort that you'd probably look more handsome, you were a teacher, take the Ministry of Education resort. In principle, you are a person who has the police under him, who in some way -- just the police, the police president is subject to the Home Secretary, and before these things are resolved, we honor the presumption of innocence so far, you cannot continue to represent the Ministry of the Interior. I really do not understand why the current Prime Minister is so attached to Mr Rakušan being the Minister of the Interior. I guess I know that, because 33 of the mandate of the Mayors and Independents in this government are 33 mandates, and without these 33 mandates, this government would probably have done so by now. This may be the main thing that keeps the Minister of the Interior Rakušan within all his missteps, which he has so far done in just eight months, when he is the Minister of the Interior, in power. Minister of the Interior Rakušan was preparing for the position of Minister of the Interior, he was a member of the Security Committee in the previous parliamentary term. You'd think, of course, that he'd be ready for the resort. In his media performances, he said he wasn't ready, he didn't expect the resort to be so hard that he would fight on several fronts, that there would be deagrofertization of the Ministry of the Interior, deagrofertization of other organizations under the Ministry of the Interior from those bad people, Babišův's people who have been sucked in and established there over the past eight years. Please, such statements from the Home Secretary, unsubstantiated, just such screams of media, is that like what I'm asking? What is it that the Home Secretary jumps up on the roof of the tile shop on Letná and points his finger, Andrej, is it time, and points to the calendar? Is that dignified to the Home Secretary? Is that some kind of threat to the opposition? What's that, please? Yesterday on the Security Committee, when there was a barbecue in quotes by the Minister of the Interior, when we asked about a number of things that I mentioned here too, the Minister of the Interior did not last a moment, it is all streamed on Seznam.cz, and he called our chairman a chemical Alí movement. He said your chemical one. Ali's not gonna tell me that I'm the head of organized crime. Please, that was meant how? As far as I know, chemical Alí was one of the generals behind Saddám Husajn who gassed the Kurd. Is that what you're saying, Minister of the Interior, through Mr President, that our movement or our Prime Minister has some chemical weapons in place somewhere and wants to gas someone or something, when it's like this...? What was that statement last night, please? I am surprised that our President does not require an apology for this statement that was made yesterday. And I could go on like this. It's just, if I repeat it again, the exchange of the police president, the reorganization of the NCOZ, the formation of the TEK, the huge run-up case of the Dozimetr, the replacement of the head of the ÚZSI. Everything in eight months. While we have a refugee crisis here, we have a war between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. I think the security forces have something to do, and not in such a way to perform some destabilization and simply such a huge and accelerated exchange. We also asked the Minister what was the reason why Mr. Šimandl had to leave the UZSI so quickly and why Mr. Mlejnek had to be appointed so quickly when he only had a background check and should have a top secret clearance. Couldn't it really have waited until the end of the background check? Did it really have to happen that Mr. Mlejnek, who otherwise seems to be capable, who has just had some history in Military Intelligence, a person who can be even decent and think about the Czech Republic correctly, had to be exposed in this way, including his wife, and had to be shown as the head of the most secret service, which is our intelligence? It's all just wrong. [[12.20 hours]] Of course, I don't trust Mr Mlejnek. I don't trust his witness, I don't believe the testimony that someone who moves alone in managerial positions and is being threatened after entering the City of Prague Transport Company was reportedly threatened by his family, allegedly threatened by his children after some physical liquidation, so he will keep this for three years for himself, three years protected by Mr Mlejnek, who convinces him that he should probably go to the police. How would you, colleagues, behave if someone threatened your family? I mean, if someone threatened my kids or my wife the next day, the next day I'm at the police station, the next day I'm at NCOZ or some specialized service, and I'd ask them for help. It's just a fairy tale, it's a fairy tale of a sheep's grandmother. It's just, every time something pops up in that public space, unfortunately, even from the leaks from that NCOZ, it's immediately being reacted by the Home Secretary or people on the right side of the spectrum from STAN, and you just keep getting involved. It's embarrassing, it's undignified, it's just crazy. That is why I have also taken advantage of this opportunity today, so I would like to add this point to the current meeting, because we often have no other way of expressing ourselves in such a long and public way, because our meetings are not being put on the agenda because you reject it for us. There is also no need for such space for the Security Committee to be able to express ourselves in the large amount and the number of points we have to make there, and I have therefore taken this opportunity. Therefore, Vice-President, I would like to reiterate once again that I would like to add the current meeting to the NCOZ Reorganization in the context of the investigation into the corruption case to the STAN Dosimeter of organised crime and the overall role of the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u41	I've been trying, Mr. Ambassador, to record the title of the point, if you have it on you, please bring it to me to rewrite the exact text. Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová will now come forward and prepare Mrs Adámková - for the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am terribly sorry to have to perform here again today. I am sorry that I have to keep reminding, repeatedly reminding, and basically begging the whole government to deal with this. I am sorry that the government is doing nothing to help people in any way, and that many people's conditions for life will deteriorate to an unbearable degree and many people who have been miserable until recently are dealing with how to handle the winter. I have spoken here several times from the position of my original, actually the current profession, from the position of medical rescue. That's what I'm doing today, and I'm doing it because it looks like you, the whole government, don't know how people live in this country at all, and you don't figure out how they're going to live in other years. And I know how they live because I see it with my own eyes, because my so-called social bubble is from people who go out to their homes today and every day, and they see and know the conditions with their own eyes and not just from hearsay or from some e-mail. Let's do it again. It is thanks to the work of a health care medic that I know how horrible conditions some people live in today. We're all used to coming home from work, having dinner, showering, watching TV, reading, going to the theater and going to bed in a clean bed. It's a standard of living for all of us. To some extent, none of you realize how we sit here, that for someone else, it can be a luxury. I'll wear a sweater in the winter and home, like the five-wheelers recommend, I know what gifts my grandkids, my mom, my parents, my sister, will get for vánoce. It'll be easy, they'll get sweaters. But at the same time, I know that a lot of people already live like this now, that they just keep the heat, the water, the electricity down now, and they've limited it before, so maybe they've got enough left to eat. What they're gonna do in the winter now, I really can't imagine. These are not people who would solve the price of petrol because they don't have a car, but they just solve and can't handle the price of fuel and energy. It's been discussed how many kids can't handle long-distance teaching because they don't have computers. With the same families, they're really threatening to have nothing to drown and shine because they just won't have electricity bills to pay. Or if they pay for it, they won't have enough to eat, and I'm not talking about anything else at all. But I feel like the government doesn't care. I may be a masochist, but every Sunday I watch The Party, every night at 10:00 p.m. I watch Events, Comments, and I listen to the debate...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u43	Yes, my colleague. I'm gonna ask you, colleagues, especially in the right side of the hall, to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u44	I watch all the talk shows on TV. And to me, you seem to have some kind of circle of how to learn the exact same phrase. We did, we did, we did. Umbrella versus expensive. I told you from the beginning that the umbrella didn't have an impregnation and that it was raining through it. Well, it's pouring over him now. Your energy-saving package, so maybe we learned something that they're gonna get the households 16, 17,000, 4,000 this year, the next year the other money. I'll show you my colleague's invoice in a minute. And here we are talking about the standard of living of our citizens, our Czech citizens. The problem, and I have already pointed it out here and talked about it, but it will also be with those services that are provided by the state, the region and the community. A colleague of mine spoke here, through you, Professor Vondrák. And how will the government help them? Hospitals, ambulances, social institutions, police, firefighters. These are services with which we count completely automatically and which they also need to function properly. And their costs are really rising dramatically. The increase in energy already has an impact on segments, which we expect to operate completely automatically. The services we use not all of us regularly every day, but some of us depend on our human lives. I tried to draw attention to this a few months ago. I expected one of those who now have responsibility for running this state to pick it up, but unfortunately it didn't happen. And now we're standing here again, we're dealing with the same subject again, we're repeating that the state isn't dealing with anything. [[12.30 hours]] How is that possible? Doesn't anyone see beyond your apartment or your house? So you can imagine how people's living conditions change, let me give you an example. I will not deliberately set an example here from the poorest and most needy social classes, but from the so-called middle class. Recently, about a week ago, my colleague from the Liberec Region ambulance called me, who received a new schedule of electricity payments from ČEZ the day before. I can hand him over here. I have permission to show him. The colleague has a small house, he pays his mortgage, he has a wife, he has a nurse, he has two children who go to school. It doesn't have gas, it's just electricity, it has a heat pump. By this year, the electric advance paid CZK 4,000 a month, it is not bad, it earns about CZK 45,000 a month, the wife approx. CZK 15,000 a month. That's why I'm saying I'm talking about the middle layer, not the poorest layer. That's a total of 60,000. He has a car, yes, he goes to sea once a year with his family on vacation. Now he's got new electric backup, here you can really verify it - 15,000 crowns a month at the same consumption he has in his smaller house for the long term. He's got a mortgage that's about 10,000. Let's see how much more of this mortgage is going to do. So when he adds up all the housing costs, his family, which isn't bad enough, will pay CZK 32,000 for housing and mortgage. That's more than half of all income. Food prices have already risen by more than a third, but actually everything is reflected on everything. This family I'm talking about lives in the village. Everyone has to commute to work and school. My colleague commutes from a small village every day 30 kilometers there, 30 kilometers back, the village's wife takes the kids to school for circles, so they rent a car, but somehow they do. But there's still the cost of the car. They don't count on going on vacations at all, or they don't count on going on vacations, because they obviously won't. Two paramedics taking care of the others. Half the income goes to living. Do you consider it normal, dear government? And once again, this is not a story of the poor, poorest family, but of the middle class of this society. So what I really want to hear from you is some statistics, some prognosis. We know how many people are at risk in this country, how many live below or at the poverty line. At the end of the year it was 9 percent, in the middle of this year it was 16 percent. I see that the coalition doesn't care at all, as their learned phrase doesn't care about the umbrella against the precious, through which it rains, I'll repeat it again, an energy-saving package that you won't help anyone, 5,000 for parents under the age of 18. Eighteen years, so high school students don't stand a chance with single mom. And how many are going to be in the current economic situation and the energy crisis, how many of these people are going to be in a year or two? Because those numbers, if you don't start doing something, they're gonna be horrible. Therefore, I propose to include at this meeting a point entitled Prognosis of population development below the income poverty threshold in the next two years. Now I allow myself, it is true that the person who put it on Facebook described it very correctly, probably it was April 1, 2020, when Prime Minister Fiala, by your means, wrote: Abroad, governments are launching large-scale measures to save businessmen and entrepreneurs, only with us Babišův's government is laying down many complicated conditions. It looks like he's trying to achieve as few people as possible to support. At this point, there is no time for difficult solutions. You need help quickly. So, through your Prime Minister, I will read out loud the sentence he said - I do not wish your gestures. [[He responds to Prime Minister Fiala, who is standing in the hall a few steps ahead of her.]] At this point, it's not time for a complicated solution. [[Prime Minister Fiala's note from the O.R. outside the microphone to the performing MP.]] Prime Minister, don't yell at me, okay? Well, I'll give you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u45	I'm gonna ask you all in the room to respect that when you communicate, it's just through the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u46	At this point, there is no time for difficult solutions. You need help fast. April 1st, 2020. - So I hope that our government will follow this sentence of the Prime Minister, through you, the current Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u47	Thank you. I noted the title of the new point. I have now signed up with Mr. Chairman of the ODS Bend Club. Please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u48	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, since we are participants in the destruction of this meeting, to call it that, I have two procedural proposals, namely the first proposal under Section 53 paragraph. 1, on behalf of all coalition clubs, that means the five coalition clubs, so that today's meeting continues, including the territorial vote after 19th, 21st, and 24th hours. That's the first suggestion. The second proposal, which is pursuant to § 53 para. 3 of our Rules of Procedure, it is that the Chamber of Deputies states that the sitting of the 33rd and 34th sitting will also be Saturday 27th August 2022, so that we are clear that we will actually finish this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u49	Thank you. As procedural proposals have been made, I will put them to a vote without debate. [[Mrs Schiller wants to make a statement.]] Of course, you will all be given the floor in the context of giving counterproposals against the proposals that have been made. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u50	I have a question for the House Matadors, of course. We don't have an approved agenda for the meeting, so we're giving the procedural proposals, even though there's no approved agenda for the meeting? Can we rely on a specific provision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u52	Legislation has been consulted. [[Protest voices from the O.R.]] No, please, we have a number of precedents from the past, of course. Of course, we can vote on the extension of the date, regardless of whether or not we have an approved agenda for the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u53	Okay. I'll vote in that case. [[Protest voices from the O.R.]] If you have a problem with the way I manage the meeting, you may object to the President's procedure. I am in agreement with the position of the legislation and will therefore vote on these proposals. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u54	So I object to the President's procedure. I believe that it is not possible to make procedural proposals unless the agenda has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u55	Okay, I respect your proposal. It is entirely legitimate under the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I will vote because I have proposed a procedure such that I will vote immediately on these two procedural proposals, but an objection has been raised against the President's procedure, so I - yes, I hear and register, first I will sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby who haven't arrived yet... [[12.40 hours]] The number in the hall has settled, so I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of having an objection raised against the President's procedure, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 2, 168 Members and Members registered, for proposal 64, against 101. This objection to the proceeding was rejected. I shall therefore vote as the procedural proposals have been tabled. First of all, I will vote on the proposal that today's negotiations will take place after 19th, 21st and after 24th hours and will act in terms of both territorial and procedural terms, as I hope, President Benda, that I am well quoting your proposal that we will act after 19th, 21st and 24th hours in terms of both territorial and procedural terms, act and vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 3, 169 Members and Members registered, for proposal 102, against 67. We agreed to this proposal. And I am going to vote on the second procedural proposal, and it is said that the Chamber of Deputies states that the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies will also be held on 27 August 2022. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 4, 169 Members and Members registered, for proposal 101, against 67. I note that we have agreed with both procedural proposals. And now, we will proceed to the agenda of the meeting with the properly registered Members and Members. Mrs Adámková will now appear and she has two applications for the agenda. Mrs Adámková is not present. [[It's from the O.R.!]] I apologize to you, Madame. I'm deeply sorry. Please, you have the floor. Make your proposals on the agenda. And I will ask you, colleagues, if you want to discuss your discussions to be brought to the front so that we can all understand what points the honourable Member will propose. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I've got two points. I'll take them all in one performance to save your time, one at a time. The first point that weighs on us, and I must say that we have been discussing it here repeatedly in the last parliamentary term, political experience has not occurred, and it is a problem that is very troubling us at the moment, is some discrimination against voluntary bone marrow donors. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I must say that the number of patients with hematological diseases is not small, unfortunately it is increasing. It may be part of civilization problems, longevity, and so forth, but unfortunately, children are not spared either. And there's only one treatment that's possible for bone marrow transplantation. And I've already said it here. If anyone thinks that then it's really just to reach into the registers, it's not true. Unfortunately, donors may not be found immediately and there is no guarantee in the wide family that the donor will be easily found. I understand that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u57	I apologise, fellow Members, to you Members, but the noise in the hall is truly enormous! Really enormous! I will ask both right and left sides of the hall that you, colleagues and colleagues, transfer the discussion to the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u58	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I believe that the health situation of our children and our children is such an important and political matter that it really needs to be addressed. What is the problem, and since we are not all here as in the last parliamentary term, let me introduce you very briefly to the problem, is the situation that has actually occurred. The need to correct the transplant law brought the terrain. The point is that voluntary tissue donors who continue to transplant in case of incapacity for work receive full reimbursement of their salary. So it would seem that there is no problem, because bone marrow sampling is a routine matter. Of course, colleagues who perform it know it, and for a long, long time we have not seen serious complications. Even those who work in hematooncology claim that they have been for several years. I admit I haven't seen a severe purulent complication after a sternum puncture for about 18 years. But it did. And what happened is that a voluntary donor -- and this is a really anonymous donation -- the donor is actually going to hand over part of his bone marrow, and it's being administered by the registry, and, if necessary, this material is used to transplant in life-threatening diseases. This man, please nicely, had an incapacity for work, had children at home, and also a loan, or a mortgage, that's indifferent. But since his income was then only on sick leave, that means, you know very well how much it is, so of course he got into a situation where he himself wanted to help others without a name, I repeat again, without a name, so he wasn't able to pay a loan or a mortgage at all, I don't know what it was. The whole situation was handled by a collection. So imagine that someone is saving your child, a deadly child or a family member, and you, other people, will have to organize a collection for his family to pay for their monthly duties. So with this change, we would just like to return these truly morally high-value people - thank you for calming them down - their place and show that, of course, we greatly appreciate their contribution to the treatment of life-threatening diseases. Again, leukemia affects children. Allow me to offer you a program that is not yet approved anywhere. It's House Press 162, let's call it a change in the transplant law, and I'd like him at today's meeting fixed as point three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u59	Thank you. Anyway, it's like a new point in this meeting. [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u60	Mr. Vice-President, can I see the other one right away?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u61	You have a second application right away. You may proceed, yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u62	Thank you. The second thing is a matter rather complex in terms of the process, and that is because it connects health-social issues and, in turn, the need to discuss this matter and discuss it very quickly is the problem of the terrain. I am being approached by health establishments, whether larger or smaller, and they are not just private persons, with their situation of paying invoices that threaten them, that means energy, is fatal for them, they are very concerned that they would not be able to fulfil their obligations, which, of course, would result in a deterioration of health care for our residents. But it's not just about the health care. Two days ago I received a few very urgent, and I must say, not hysterical therefore, but very urgent warnings to present this point here and we asked the honourable House whether it would be an important point or not. I don't know what you're going to decide, and I'm sure you understand where these people will be looking for who either confirmed or rejected their problem. I'm sure it won't be us. I just want to point out that this isn't a talk for saying. This is about the fact that the newly proposed criteria, let's say, were carried out by the media for temperature comfort. And I think it wasn't quite happy that it should be discussed first, but it did, and it was from the mouth of the Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade. So there was 18 degrees for preschool facilities. [[12.50 hours]] Please, nicely, the original decree... Believe me, the Ministry of Health paid great attention to this years ago, a very long-term observation of the temperature in the rooms and its impact on health. I can still imagine that a teacher can handle 18 degrees in a room in a school without a problem. Take the hot tea to the cathedral, socks and a warm sweater and walk. But what I can't imagine, and it can't be imagined by pre-school experts, is the stay of children in kindergartens, because at the same time they have to meet other hygiene standards and requirements, which need ventilation. And you know that these children spend 70 percent of that time on carpets on the ground. So here they are very concerned about increased illness. We know very well from long-term statistics and long-term observations, it is an international message that a reduction in temperature by one degree in that room can mean if further premises are not respected, worsening by up to two percent in the incidence of respiratory diseases. In that case, I must point out that - and I believe that the budget is being prepared by experts - their work would be more or less useless, because disease is one thing, but these are small children, and they must, of course, be cared for. So what can you expect? A more or less geometric series will increase the need to treat a family member, which, as you well know, also pays for the first few days. So in the social part, not only would there be payments, but these people would not go further into employment. So, when it happens at school, you can expect another drop in teachers, kindergarten teachers, but also paramedics, nurses. After all, we've been through this in a time of uncomplicated covids that no one could. But we already know that this could happen. So I just want to say very briefly that these people don't write it for nothing. But there really are a number of decrees, a number of laws. It is the hygiene of the working environment, where it evaluates several risk factors. One of those risk factors is also the burden of coldness. This also requires a mental burden and so on. If you imagine a little first-year-old who's a little cold to learn to write, you can hardly expect a good result. So I want to point out that this situation, of course, is already beginning to interest the terrain. They're worried. Of course, the heat coolness that's being discussed right now, or maybe it was prematurely said, I don't know, it's a little burnt from the side. It's a kind of thrown wound that rarely takes place, and it didn't, I believe, do a study by the Ministry of Labour and Trade that would really be able to verify this and properly document it here. So that's another thing I would ask very much to consider. Another thing about the thermal well-being is that once again, the health establishments are turning us around and they're worried that they won't pay the invoices. It's suggested - just like that, you might know, but there's one thing I'm interested in, I'm just saying, because paradoxically, they didn't suggest any temperature reductions for prison spaces. Then it'll be warm. Let's not just look at children, but look at the specifics of diseases in old age. You all have seniors at home. I hope they're doing well and they're quite satisfied. However, there is a worsening possibility of of of course reacting to rapid temperature changes or to react worse to the cold that would occur here. I must say that one gentleman, otherwise a professor of music school, wrote me a beautiful e-mail and at the end he wrote a solution for himself. He is 82 years old, working, still active, and wrote: "If this is true, I know what I will do. My pension is about 15,000, I'll make some money, so I'm not complaining." He didn't complain about the reception. "I'm gonna have to steal something so they can lock me up for at least a few months, 'cause I'm gonna have 24 degrees of temperature, which I'm not allowed anywhere else, three times a day, or at least once, and they're gonna change my bed linen." I'm sure it's a gentleman who has a sense of humor. I hope he was just trying to ease the situation. But however, there really has been this discrepancy so far. As for the diseases of old age, I warn you that the old people in the hospital - of course you all had your family members there, you know well that they bring them warm socks. We know from the other side that they need two blankets, because they're just cold. So we can't just toss numbers from the side, who wants me to put in one degree and then three degrees. It really is a very bad solution, and I think it was said prematurely that you didn't even mean it completely. Let's look at the other things we can say. Because if it is true that energy prices, whose multiples I do not want to repeat here, because I hope that in the end the situation will be somewhat better, even though I already think I am a really optimistic person. If hospitals have to pay for energy, and as if they have to, because of course the invoice has to be paid, let's see - and I'll only talk mostly about the years until 2019, or we'll leave the covid aside for now because it was atypical and we won't say anything about it - let's look at biological drugs. Which means severe rheumatic disease. I'm sure you know someone like that from around you. Tumor disease. Unfortunately, tumors are part of our daily routine. So for these modern biological drugs - and we'll take it before 2019 - I don't want to take covid at all and another - it was about CZK 17 billion. So that means that this really is a big increase. All those central, so-called central, treatments that also involve metabolic diseases, that is to say, severe fat metabolism disorders. I'm warning you, with those fat metabolisms -- slightly elevated cholesterol, anyone else, please, doesn't belong there. It's a severe fat metabolism disorder where these people have a chance of dying within 40 years. It's not a simple matter at all. Raise again. And what we would like as an advanced health - and I keep saying that I am proud to be in the Czech Republic and our health - are, of course, cancer diseases. Not just the haematological one, as I was talking about leukemia, but cancer. We're one lucky guy. We are lucky that there has been a significant progression in the treatment of cancer in the last ten years. Of course, oncologists could speak in a very routine and erudite manner. I don't want to burden you with any of the names of the drugs or anything like that. But it must be realized that we have again 2.5 billion in the last five years, and it is a good thing that we can afford it, of course that's a good thing. Thus, from individual groups of diagnoses, spending on treatment of male sex organs tumors increased the most - 49 percent. So, thank God we have something to treat, please, to warn. Skin tumors 45 percent, head and neck tumors 44 percent. I quote that from only available sources. So here we are one more lucky that the number of patients doesn't increase so much, because we can diagnose, better dispensorize and offer treatment earlier. But we have to have it. Please note that, of course, we are buying all the treatment in the world markets, please. And I repeat, no one will do any relief for the Czech Republic quickly. So we need to calculate these conditions so that we don't have to refuse someone else's treatment just because we're either going to flood in the hospital or we're going to treat cancer. So since we're stuck with the blood tumors, let's get something that's not a blood tumor, and that's haemophilia. I'm sure you all know a birth defect that, unfortunately, is... or has been an inability to treat for years. Of course, these people had big problems because of bleeding into the joints, major problems. So it needs to be realized that I'm talking about 2021. For example, only the General Health Insurance Company spent on this - I will round a little - 800 million crowns, which is 19 percent more than in 2018. Care for one year to have an idea for one patient with haemophilia - and we won't take it if it's a man, a woman, a child, an old man, everything doesn't matter - is about 600,000 crowns. And I'm talking about, let's just say, an acceptablely complicated form. So these values really force us to figure everything out. [[13.00 hours]] Then there's another thing I'd say, well, it's not important, it's extremely important, please, and these are childhood injuries. We must say that children's injuries, despite all preventive measures, are unfortunately not able to eliminate in any way fundamentally, especially during the holiday period. Colleagues who do child trauma could call us a very rusty case here. So there's a really big increase in cases in the second, third quarter, the most common is the age of ten to fifteen years. Nearly a fifth of children at this age are injured each year. Just to give you an idea, and I took a small insurance company so it wouldn't be the General Health Insurance Company, so the Czech Industrial Insurance Company paid about CZK 105 million for child injuries before the covido period, which, of course, no one wants. Those children are smaller, under ten years old, mostly in the home, where of course there can be some kind of burn or scalding. In any case, it should be noted that even these injuries, and we hope that they are not the fatal ones, which I hope is really an exception, are important. And I just point out that if... and I appeal very much to the entire government, because I am already instructed that it decides as a whole, I am not going to appoint any minister or minister, I would very much like to call on her to really consider the very difficult, unsimple situation of our medical facilities, which are primarily intended to provide top health care. We are happy to be in this republic because here is solidarity healthcare, which means that people really get the care they need, but we have to have it for them. And you know very well that no energy supplier, whether it's poppy or not, will be able to bail out any medical facility, whether it's large or small, the invoice will have to be paid. I would very much hate to see after the New Year that the spinal hospitals of our health system are unable to pay for their obligations. It means debts - legally I will not go into this at all, because it will certainly be a more difficult situation, and colleagues of lawyers would know what the pitfalls are there. But we won't be able to get treatment because we won't be able to buy medicine. We will not be able to buy aids, we will not be able to provide care that our citizens are used to. Therefore, I would like to propose the availability of energy and the impact on health-social issues in the Czech Republic. Please, as point number four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u63	Madame, given that you have proposed the previous point as point number 4, in which case I would suggest that it be as number 5, because if the point before what you have read was as point fourth, so -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u64	I designed the previous point, the transplant laws, as point number 3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u65	Okay, in that case, this point as number 4. Okay. [[Member Adámková: Yes, thank you.]] Thank you. Now I'll read the apologies. 26, respectively. 8. 2022, Mr Milan Feranec and Mr Ivan Adamec apologize between 16.00 and 23.51 because of illness, and Mr Petr Bendl apologizes for the 34th meeting for working reasons. We will now proceed in further applications. Next, Mr David Pražák, who has two applications, and then Mr Josef Bělica, will appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u66	Good afternoon. Madam Secretary, Minister. I'd have two points. The first one, I'm going to deviate a little bit from what's been going on here all morning, even though, of course, I'm going to mention it too. The first point I would call Information Minister of the Environment - although I do not see it here, maybe it will appear here during the day - Information Minister of the Environment about the brown coal mine Turów. Why am I opening this place up and I want us to do it again, and I want to hear the information here? In February this year, she actually filled the media space with information that the dispute between the Czech Republic and Poland was over and that an agreement was concluded with the Polish party. The whole problem with the brown coal mine actually escalated to a lawsuit at the Court of Justice in Brussels. After last autumn's elections, the new government concluded an agreement with the Polish party in February and they did not mind at all that the mine was expanding to the Czech border, that the last government was making comments, the Liberec Region was commenting on this during the approval process. At the same time, we are running out of water in the Hrádek region and villages in the border areas. It should be remembered that we have criticised the entire agreement for one simple reason: it was the confession of the treaty, which is too short for us to force the mine on some really functional solution. We also questioned the function of an underground barrier against water leakage from our territory, because no one actually said whether the barrier would prevent the drain of our water, or whether it was another one of them cramming into the mine and causing problems in mining. Forget the Polish side cares about our water. This was also questioned by Ambassador Jasiński, whom the Polák preferred to withdraw for his opinion. We wanted an emergency meeting that you didn't support us as a government coalition, and you didn't approve the program. That was February. We're in August now. The main argument of the agreement was the alleged functionality of the implemented wall, which the Polák will do, and suddenly the Czech Geological Service did not agree with the Research Institute for Water Management. Now we read that in June, early July and early June, the barrier was complete. And when I quote the Ministry of Environment, the proven increase in levels in deeper collectors sealed in the Turów mine has not yet been observed by the Czech Republic in its monitoring wells. I suppose you all like the movie Pelíšky and the memorable sentence: Where did the comrades of the GDR make a mistake? I ask the same question: Where did the Polák make a mistake in the wall that actually - even though it will be monitored for months, but so far nothing is happening - doesn't it prove any functionality? In recent weeks we have learned that the financial compensation was not even successful because 700 million crowns are missing, because the North Bohemian Water Company study dates back to 2015 and much has changed since then. Again, I must remind you that representatives from the parties and the movement of the current coalition sit in the bodies of these companies. While some projects are being prepared, it seems that once the water supply is brought to the village, the end users are not. And I wonder how and how these municipalities and municipalities are going to finance the endings, because it looks like because of the malfunction of the government and the energy-price disaster, they're not going to have funding for any other investment. It is no longer about the fact that we may have a problem with energy prices and the functioning of municipalities and regions at all. I'm from Semily, and I can tell you that even in our beautiful city, we've been dealing with the current energy price. This mess is just gonna be, like it or not, and it doesn't matter who's gonna be in any village leadership after the election. For example, with us, the budget is set so that 20 million crowns per energy is present, but if at those prices what they are now, it will be 100 million crowns, then the municipalities and regions will simply do nothing in investment and development. To make matters worse, you can read when you compare water springing in the Jizera Mountains, so after the flow of Turów, from the surface stream, in this case Olešky, becomes a poisonous sewer. There is also an above-ground wall in the conditions to prevent noise and dust, but it is also called into question by representatives of the authorities from the last few days. And these are the representatives of the authorities who are from the current government parties, so once again, no one can say that it would be our invention. And rather than health in this measure, it is an optical act. Although thanks to the wall will not be so much visible from the surroundings of coal, which is the settlement, the brown coal mine, but without effect on the already mentioned noise and dust. Turów is said to be the seventh most toxic power plant in the European Union. [[13.10 hours]] Poland defends itself that it does what it has to do, although in this case it is clear the proverb that the wolf eats and the goat remains whole. Many have fallen in the past about the fact that the underground barrier doesn't work and it won't work. The Polish company PGE has even admitted this, and I would like the Secretary of State to give us some new information from those meetings of the working groups. So that would be the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u67	Thank you. It's a new point I've written down - Information from the Ministry of Environment about the Turów mine. Second point, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u68	Thank you. And the second point would concern, of course, my area of agriculture, although the Minister of Agriculture is not here either, Mr. Shadow Minister Jurečka was here for a while, but he also left. I believe he'll give him the information. Of course, energy prices concern everyone, and I would like to know when the Minister of Agriculture was beating in the breasts, how he wants to help those small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, how he will stand up and help the Ministry of Agriculture and the smaller producers doing business in agriculture and food industry. Because yesterday I read on the Internet an incredible thing from the Minister of Industry of Síkela that there will be no cost-effective tariff for companies. Well, the Minister of Industry is actually more or less sinking the economy, and I wonder how the Minister of Agriculture will take it. Another such paragraph, which was there, which is also incredible, by Minister Síkela, that when we looked at the number of companies that are in operational loss, there are not so many, the Minister of Industry Síkela for STAN. Only according to the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, the situation in the sector is very serious before the coming winter. Farmers and food workers are desperate, they are also desperate for energy prices and some of our ministers, which is why, as I said, the minister here beat his breasts to help them, the smaller ones, so I would like him to step out here and tell us how he wants to do it, because he is the Minister of Agriculture and that sector belongs to him. I would be quite pleased if the Minister hadn't said any more, and I believe that he himself realized it, or the people who prepared the evidence for him, that due to the fall in grain prices, food prices will fall. I think that, even today, everyone in this Republic has already understood that the input raw material is only a fraction of the cost of producing anything, namely food that is absolutely nonsense. For example, bakers and cookies have these costs in the raw materials somewhere between 15 and 20 percent, but the other rest, 40 percent, are energy and 40 percent are wages and food distribution. Energy catastrophe has fallen several times, but, of course, the pressure on wages at 18% of inflation must be taken into account by these farmers or by these producers. [[unintelligible]] And really, no one can think that if his energy costs went up 500 percent, it could translate into product prices. Who would buy a 30 kroner bagel after that? Therefore, I ask the Minister of Agriculture for information on how he will stand up to support small-scale agricultural and food producers. Thank you, and I'd like that as a point of five and six.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u69	Well, put it firmly on the program. [[Yes.]] The first point as number 5 and the next point as number 6, they're both new points of the agenda. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr Bělico, I have been asked, and I am doing so here to announce that today was the death of singer Hana Zagorová. Life is fragile. Honor her memory! Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u70	Thank you, Mr President. My condolences to the family. I'm surprised at what you just said. It's really unpleasant news. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Mr President, I would like to place a point on the House's agenda entitled The credibility of the Office of the ÚZSI in the context of international cooperation between the secret services. For any secret service in the world, trust is a crucial parameter of international cooperation with allies' partner services across the world. As a citizen of the Czech Republic, I am very concerned about the actions of the appointed director of the ÚZSI, who was evidently associated with Mr Redl, one of the central figures of the Dozimeter case, who has provenly had contacts with the underworld. The whole matter has several dimensions and I would like to discuss the proposed point primarily on the professional level. Is it really the UZSI to run the person who was, even working in the security community - met, and as Mr Mlejnek himself said, in business negotiations, i.e. business? Didn't a security guard know that he was talking business with a man who was disenfranchised? He really didn't believe that, didn't he know he was talking to a man who worked very closely with Radovan Krejčíř in the past? Minister, is that why he's professionally competent and capable of leading the U.S.I., intelligence? I would like to ask, Minister and Prime Minister Rakušan, why did Minister Gazdík resign? I mean, in this particular case, you both agree that contacts with a man like Mr. Redl are okay? Then why weren't they okay with Minister Gazdík, who, as Minister of Education, was significantly less of a threat to the safety of our country than the Director of the ÚZSI? Does the Czech Republic really have no one else who would have confidence in both the government, the opposition and, above all, the citizens of our country? How will foreign partners cooperate with a service headed by a person who has no trust at home in his own country? Please include the above mentioned point as the third item in today's House of Deputies meeting. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u71	Okay, thank you. If the point is placed, all the others will shift. Next, Mr Strýček will be on the agenda and Mr Stržínek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u72	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include a new point in the 33rd meeting already approved, so I will now read the whole point, as the decree entails, it is a point entitled Proposal for a Decree of the Ministry of Industry and Trade laying down specific rules for heating and supply of hot water in order to prevent an emergency or in an emergency, and I propose to include it on Friday 26th August, following the already fixed points. I think that each of us has already had the opportunity to get acquainted with the decree in some way, but in my opinion, there are a lot of uncertainties that deserve a wider debate and, in particular, an explanation from Minister Síkela, from whose workshop or from whose ministry this decree came out. The reason, as has already been said - this decree was prepared by the Ministry of Industry and it is a decree which, in my opinion, will dramatically affect all citizens of the Czech Republic. Of course, the reason for this decree is clear, the proposed decree aims to reduce the consumption of natural gas and other fossil fuels in buildings under restrictions or complete termination of the supply of natural gas to the Czech Republic and is therefore intended to lead to energy savings, including gas savings, while allegedly maintaining minimum requirements for thermal comfort and hot water supply. In my opinion, however, the opposite is true, the decree will fundamentally touch and disrupt the heat comfort and hot water supply for all citizens of the Czech Republic. The objective of the Decree, as has already been stated, is to lay down different rules for heating in houses in order to reduce the consumption of natural gas, the supply of which has fallen significantly in recent months, and threatens essentially the total breakdown of its imports from the Russian Federation. In my opinion, there is no reason for this - one reason is why to limit heating from sources other than natural gas. The draft decree also includes a large range of buildings heated from sources using different types of fuels. I don't think there's a whole lot of reason for that. From my point of view, there is also a potential inequality. At present, there is an effort to regulate heat, but it cannot be excluded that in future, and perhaps at European level, there will be a need to regulate electricity production and consumption in a similar way. In some cases it may not even be possible to reach the desired temperature in the apartment. If the temperature specified in the exchanger is between 45 and 60 degrees, then the outdoor frost will not heat large spaces at the prescribed 18 degrees. [[13.20 hours]] I'm sure it's pretty clear that if people get cold in apartments, they're gonna have little kids, or they're gonna have little kids there, they're gonna have older parents, grandma and grandpa, so they're gonna buy and turn on a direct heat that's for electricity, no matter what it costs, because of course they won't want to freeze or freeze. Furthermore, I find it at least problematic how it will be necessary to ensure that the average indoor air temperatures are observed in apartments. The temperature depends on where the apartment is laid. Each of us knows, or who lived in an apartment under a roof or a terrace, that it's hot in the summer and it's cold in the winter. Of course, winter is greater in apartments above the cellars, which are not heated. On the other hand, flats in the middle of an apartment building, like just a studio, you don't even have to heat them up sometimes, comfortably flooded with those apartments that are around, and you even have to air out the heat that you accumulate there so-called neighbors. In my opinion, people are already sufficiently motivated by the fact that the price of the heating is very high in order not to drown unnecessarily. Today, in most apartments, the warheads are functional on radiators, they can be regulated and the annual reading of consumption on individual heating bodies takes place even remotely, so the citizen doesn't really have to worry about anything. I have a question about how we're supposed to make sure he's 18 degrees in the apartment, 19 in the bathroom, and 15 degrees in the hallway. The heating bodies in the living rooms are designed at a calculated internal temperature of 20 degrees and in the bathrooms at a calculating internal temperature of 24 degrees. So that's the difference of four degrees. And if the heat supply automatically decreases by changing the equithermal curve, it will have to choose whether to keep the bathroom limit and in the rest it will be less than 18 degrees, or, on the contrary, it will flood in the living rooms at 18, but in the bathroom it will certainly not exceed 19 degrees. This is, of course, also due to the size of the heating body. On the contrary, if the living rooms are 18 degrees, the temperature in the hallway will drop less than 15 degrees. To this decree, as far as I know and know, a number of comments have been received from hotels, doctors and so on, certainly my colleagues will also talk about this in their speeches. All I'm gonna say is two or three cases that I don't think are, I don't want to say beatings. For example, pharmacies and laboratories intended for the manufacture of medicinal products and medicinal products, which is an important segment of health establishments, were left out. In the event that the internal temperature of these premises is not ensured, there would be a restriction on the operation of these devices, which would have an adverse impact on patients. Likewise, the proposal ignores warehouses that serve to store and distribute medicines. Moreover, stable temperatures play a significant role in the production and storage of medicinal products, and a number of medicinal products may be degraded at inadequate temperatures. Spa. The spa, it's already been discussed here, of course. When heating at 22 degrees in the room, some spa guests, mostly made up of senior or older clients, complain about the winter and heating only at 18 degrees will be unacceptable for them. Comfortable temperature for providing procedures is 23 degrees, the lowest acceptable temperature is 21. It is certainly not appropriate for these seniors, because most of these guests are recruited from seniors, after the procedure, even if it is at the lowest acceptable temperature of 21 degrees, it is not appropriate for this guest to actually move or be transported to a room at a temperature of 10 degrees, which is given by the decree for stairs and corridors. In addition, these guests usually go or are transported in a wheelchair from the room to the procedure and after the procedure only in the bathrobe. Hotels, that's another story. In fact, we all know how, at the time of the covid, this sphere or this business was actually affected - hotel and restaurant industry. Today, the temperature of 18 degrees in the hotel room, restaurants and dining rooms is highly uncomfortable for guests and employees and it can very significantly affect business in this field. In particular, the lack of guests will, of course, affect, among other things, the economy of equipment and employment. I can imagine if someone comes to the hotel here and isn't at peace with it or isn't informed in advance what temperatures are here, and suddenly they find out they're in their room at 18 degrees, so they're probably gonna check out of the hotel or they're not gonna go there at all. Technically it is not possible to regulate the temperature in the hotels separately in the bathroom and especially in the room. Moreover, the decree ignores the heating of hotel swimming pools and whirlpools. Temperature in wellness centers, for example, is now derived from the water temperature in the pool to avoid mold formation. As you can see, there are many, many cases and things that should be discussed. Although this is not a law, but it is only a decree, and this decree will, of course, have an impact on every citizen, so I think we really should discuss it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u73	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read two apologies. Today, from 16.30 to 20.30 for family reasons, Mr Robert králíček apologizes and for the rest of the day, for working reasons, Mr Andrej Babiš apologizes. Mr Robert Stržínek is next enrolled in the debate and Mr Milan Brázdil will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u74	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, I would like to ask for the inclusion of a point entitled "Help the government to cities and municipalities with energy purchases." As mayor of the twenty thousandth city of Valašský Meziříčí, I ask you whether the government expects at least some assistance from cities and municipalities, i.e. those who pay energy in schools, in kindergartens, in swimming pools, sports grounds, in libraries, in cultural houses and in many other places. Many cities, municipalities and regions have their energy fixed by the end of 2022. We are now faced with a difficult decision when, where, for how much time and how much time to buy electricity and gas for ourselves and for our contribution organizations. Will the government be ceilinging prices? Is he gonna do anything yet? Please let us know. This week, specifically yesterday on 25. 8., on the Czech Moravian commodity exchange Kladno, which is one of the most frequently used trading platforms, traded electricity for 2023 for an incredible CZK 16 325 per megawatt hour and gas, which was traded last 19. 8. for the price of CZK 6,700 per megawatt hour. So the week was no longer in business with this commodity on the listed stock exchange. This is a harsh reality, and for our city in the case of power electricity it is 12 times the price that has been competitive so far, and for gas it is even fifteen times that. Can you imagine what this will do to city budgets if we are forced to buy at such prices? So I ask again: Will you help cities and municipalities with energy in public buildings, schools, kindergartens, sports grounds, senior homes, hospitals and other buildings? Or should we close them or limit their operation? I consider the current situation critical and the discussion of this point essential. I therefore call for his inclusion as already approved points in today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll write down the order...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u76	And once again, the title of that point: helping the government to cities and municipalities buy energy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u77	Thank you. I noticed that. Mr Milan Brázdil will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u78	Dear ladies, the rest of the ladies, dear rest of the gentlemen who are here, good day. I will also allow myself to be on the agenda of this meeting, because it weighs on me, and you probably have an idea of what, the injustice of what is happening to paramedics, whether medical or mountain. So I come up with a new point -- a new one, he was here, he was already here last term at the end, that point was already here, at third reading you rejected it, coalition partners, opponents, coalition MPs. [[Smile]] [[13.30 hours]] And I am coming again because I also called the name not only with pensions of basic IZS files, but also with the tearing calendar of Minister Marian Jurečka's mouth. This man here at the counter will promise the people who have been here and say: It is only a mistake that you, Members of the Yes, did it. We'll fix it, we'll do it and we'll do it ourselves. And we'll do it by the end of summer. By the end of August, he said here, he will be presented to the government. You know what's gonna happen? Nothing's gonna happen! There's a whole lot of other stuff going on, 14 billion from the health department. I know that if they stayed there, it wouldn't help, the few crowns needed to evaluate or evaluate the lifelong work of mountain and medical rescuers, but even firemen and cops. Well, I'm just gonna say this once again, what I'm really up to here. Those of you who were here last term remember how incredibly beautifully he went through the knife with butter when we valued it, then the MPs all appreciated the work of you paramedics, us and me when we tried to work in the covideo and we didn't know what would happen to us if we caught it. And so, without a problem, he went through the suggestion that he deserved - a third reading approved by Mr. Marian Jurečka - that we deserve to evaluate those people who will complete 60 years of their lives and at least 20 years of full fire, working full-time for the people of this state, for their homeland on rescue duty, for the position of a firefighter or a firefighter or a cop, a member of the Mountain Service. It passed, it was great, so everyone got excited. Finally, someone noticed a small handful of people and allowed them early retirement without sanctions. It went through the Senate, too. The Senate was at this point, he's the guardian of the democracy, and if we happen to make a mistake, he should fix it. Imagine, he didn't. Also, I don't know if he bailed on it or just didn't, I don't know, they just don't deal with it for 30 days, so it passed, I guess it didn't even matter, or if they were watching it, I don't know exactly in detail. However, the motion was passed by the Senate, and the President signed it. So at present in Act 155 on Pension Insurance is a paragraph that says yes, you who complete at least 20 years of work on an ambulance and you're 60, so if you can't handle it - I already imagine it, it's not written there - if you want to and can't, or you can't work anymore, you can retire, and without sanctions. Just so you know, the penalty is about CZK 3,000 compared to a normal pension. So if he goes to the early 60s, he's going to cut his pension by roughly, depending on how much each person has, like, two, three grand. That's great. I think it's charity. That's a real handout. Who's this about anyway? I said it here and I'll do it again. According to the Department of Health statistics last 2021- I'm talking about medical rescue... she's not really the Czech Republic, it's 14 originals, 14 different groups, but thank God we're pulling together. Then who's involved? Well, it's about, uh, maybe it's just 72 people. Seventy-two people. There aren't any more of those 60-year-olds in the ambulance. Seventy-two people. There were 72 people in 2021... or 60 or more. But among these 72 people, the paramedics, there aren't all those who worked on the ambulance for 20 years. There are also those who came later. So we don't know how many people are going to be involved. And even from these 72 - if it took 50 and 50 of these if it really were 50 people in the whole republic to do it, 20 years of full fire work and 60 years, there are still people among them who won't go, they won't want to take advantage of it. Why would they use it if they're healthy? He's a driver, he's a paramedic, he's got a healthy back, he's handling it, so why would he drop from a salary of 35,000, a doctor of 60,000, why would he drop to a level of maybe 20,000? Why would he do that? But those who won't be able to, and just so you know, according to the Chief Mountain Service, there's about a hundred of them, so it only applies to about one of them every year. Probably one of them. If he can't handle it - and they can't move someone to an administrative job in the mountain or in the ambulance. There are dispatchers, there are people in exit activity, exit groups, doctors, paramedics, and then there are a few administrative staff, but they're not rescuers. They're economists, they're just personalists, and that's three, four, five people in the whole county. So I'm going to go back to who this is about one more time. These are probably less than 50 people a year. Fifty people a year bother Minister Jurečka to instruct him to sit here at the news counter to say yes or neutrally at least, do as you please. And I know you're a little short today, but those of you who were here last time, they know who it is. You many of you want to support this. You have, you know a lot of paramedics who are handsome, nice, and can't handle. And you realize that. But you're... I get it, there's some, it's called a monstrosity here. Everyone here has to dig for a team. Okay, so you can't, because Mr. Jurečka said no, he'll do better. He said he'd do better! You know what he did? He put it in some kind of run and so on. It's not better at all! He, who voted with his hand at the end of the last term and said yes, that's great, so suddenly found out no, no, no, we're not doing that. We'll change it! Because we don't appreciate you as much as the paramedics do anymore. We're gonna salt it up for you! Actually, we'll make it short for you. You won't be able to do five, but maybe only three years. So that's what it looks like. And please, when I called the tearing calendar of Minister Marian Jurečka's mouth, how exactly... This guy actually, he changes his mind, I don't know, by the way the wind blows. Or if by the way he's gonna order a big man in the church. I don't know if that's true or not, but he certainly changed his mind. And the reason - I don't know why. But this is not about politics. What's he gonna get? Anyway, except maybe 50 people, poor people, won't be thrown on the pavement if he can't keep working. Jim is 60, 61, 62 years old, he's worked off, handed himself out for the benefit of the people. And believe me, the pay on the ambulance wasn't good. Twelves, formerly twenty-fours, imrére at risk of people's aggression, viral, bacterial disease, and now the demos of people that we're late somewhere, and people are angry because also, because basically health, less and less people are in the health sector, and doctors aren't, and they won't. So this was supposed to be some kind of reward for it: Man, guys, ladies, there are women when you can't, so the state will thank you for it and de facto you won't be reduced to early retirement by those 2,000 crowns. That's awful! This is an unstoppable problem for you, coalition partners, who you were last time, not all, but those who were there, raised your hand, and today it's difficult for you. What's changed in your mind that you won't raise your hand for it now? I'll tell you. 'Cause the change, the fix-- by the way, you know, it's wrong written, they say, it's wrong written. It's valid, it's in the law, it's misspelled! Says who? I don't know who said it was wrong. Someone called the Czech Social Security Administration. panenka Marie, can the Czech Social Security Administration say that the law is wrong? That law is there, he's valid and they're supposed to respect it! They're gonna put out some kind of snoop, signal that it's unrealizable. How unrealistic? The House said yes, the Senate said yes, the president said yes, and the Czech Social Security Administration said it wouldn't pay you back! I don't know, what's it gonna be now? [[13.40 hours]] The law is in force. Anyone who has the right and will want it, so go, report that you want to use this law, this paragraph. Well, I wonder how it's gonna go on. The lady says, well, you know, we don't know how to make it happen. How can you not? Here's the law and do it. Laws with honor and law must be respected. But she's gonna say no. What about you now? You know what? I will advise you, because probably Marian Jurečka - not at all through - Minister Marian Jurečka does not give a damn. He doesn't even know the terms of an ambulance, a medical emergency, and he doesn't even know the Mountain Service. He's not oriented and he thinks God knows what he'd do terrible. And yet... Go. When it comes down to it, and it's probably this House in the fall, and this government isn't gonna put it in the wrong form, so you know what, if it doesn't go, then go there, I advise you, go to the administration, make a request for you, those few people I really appreciate, go ahead and ask. They'll say no, then judge. Go ahead, file a criminal report on non-compliance, because the Czech Social Security Administration has nothing to say whether it is feasible or not. Parliament - both the lower and upper chambers - and the President - approved this. But I know there's a mistake. We just didn't have the chance here in the foyer with Dr. Mašek and Jana Pastuchová and then co-worker Procházková, they just didn't give us the chance to work together - Mrs. Maláčová then - so that we could work with some deputy. We asked for it. No, no, no... Then we called him. He wasn't willing to help us at all. I don't know if any of you who are new here have ever experienced you making a paragraph yourself. I'm a doctor, I'm supposed to be saving people, not knowing if there's a comma and if it has the right word and the right terminology. So we wrote it - in good faith that someone here still has it, that it will somehow be fixed here in the process, legislatively technical. And imagine, the repair isn't factual at all. It's just a legislative technical regulation. That means it's not about the essence. Marian Jurečka wants to change the essence. He wants to change the fact that he thinks it's too much. They say it's too much, they say it's five years early to retire. You don't deserve that, you paramedics. When you can't, find a job, I don't know, go to the movies to pick tickets, put them in the movies. How awful this. That's how he appreciates... That's also the signal of this government, or the minister, or the people who think that way, what they think about you, about us people who cut each other up... By the way, these aren't employees, these aren't people who go to work because they have to, they're hearts. And I've been describing to you what kind of hearts they've been through, what I've been through, and how I could have been home long ago and had third-degree disability with left kidney cancer, hip cancer, I fell down three times with a helicopter. And I like it. And I'll do it as long as I can. But some people can't do that. And he's not ashamed, Mr. Marian Jurečka, here to say he doesn't want to fix it, and he gives them a word, he promises here, I make it better, we do it. Fart did. They didn't do anything. Normally, he bailed, and at the moment it's the end of August, and there's no proposal at all. He didn't even give it to the government! He didn't even give it to the government. And here he was suffocating, I'll do it the same way, I'll do it better, as long as it's not yours - the parliamentary proposal and the Jesus Christ of the ANO movement. They make politics out of something that isn't politics! There are all of the paramedics across the spectrum, maybe even those who believe in what I don't know, in some party and movement that isn't even in the House. You'll get nothing. But he probably... I don't know what they're afraid of. Wherever the wind, there's a cloak. He's got a ripping calendar out of his mouth. He'll promise anything at the counter just so he doesn't have to be a paramedic. I advised him, Minister, please do the political points, say, I've solved it, take a picture with them across the spectrum, invite them, and they'll tell you, you're good, thank you. And I don't care if you do it or anyone else, any other minister. But most of all, I'm sorry, you, Members of Parliament, those who have come here recently, but most of all, I'm sorry about the ones who have already been here, and they've raised their hand for it... Is this even possible? Can you really change your mind in a few months? Earlier, the paramedics were fine with you when there were problems, when there were some catastrophic tornado things, and when they didn't know where those people, what was going to happen to them, we all were, so it was sticking to us when we went to the first patients who had covid, and they died in Wuchan on it. And what did you do? Well, we put on a drape, but we had to go to them. Well, you said thank you. Well, that thank you took a really long time just to raise your hand at the third reading at the end of last term. And then it's over! Mr. Marian Jurečka doesn't give a shit about you! The Minister, who is in charge of remedying legislative technical issues. He didn't have to fix anything anymore. Everything was here. He could've just said yes to it, so do what you mean, and it went through and it was quiet. 52 people, 50, 48, it's hard to say, would be happy today, and would like to have problems with someone taking care of them. And I know there are people among you, and there aren't a few who will say it here in the gallows, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Milan, I'm sorry - we're being weird - I'm sorry that we have to do this, that we have to raise our hand against our will. There are even those who were involved, and now they're hoping it's going to be really, really, really well-adjusted. And they're here, and there's more, and there's a lot of them, and they're paramedics. Anyway, if they don't, they might regret it, maybe they'll be ashamed once an ambulance gets to them and a 60-year-old doctor comes up to them who won't be able to run up the stairs because there's no elevator, and just four to six minutes of clinical death he blew through by just being beyond the horizon of his abilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again - the President has been replaced. Mr President, please note that I am putting forward a new point - this is a bad old-fashioned point, he has already been here, actually three times already here, just a point. And put it anywhere you want. I don't give a damn if you put him first, second, fifth, twenties, well, I just want to go to the end, 'cause I just need -- we don't, what they, we need, I'm one of you, the paramedics, we need to have this little certainty. So please note, Brázdil wants to go anywhere, as long as it's classified, and that the government MPs raise their hand for it, that we can at least... We're not gonna solve this, I'm putting a point there that's just so-called talking, it's not a big deal, I want Mr. Marian Jurečka to come back and say sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't make it, because we need to take 14 billion from the health department, and we need to deal with Mlejnek, who doesn't have clearance and can't actually run the UZSI, because he can't be present with those secret, superb documents. I know how to do it today. You don't even want to know. If I told you, you'd lose your complete illusion about our intelligence, how it's going down there, how it's going to be replaced if its director doesn't have top secret clearance, and then he can get to know it. That's awful! I'd be ashamed to say that, what I learned yesterday on the Security Committee. That's about it. [[Sigh.]] Well, I know you're tired of not listening to me, but I hope some paramedics do, and I'll be glad if you'll oblige. And next thing I know, there's another point that's going to be exactly what happened last night. It's a sad thing, too. You've never seen this place before. Mrs. Černochová, you haven't experienced what happened on the Security Committee yesterday...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u79	Mr colleague, I ask that we address ourselves through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u80	I don't have to, sir, I don't have to. Don't correct me if you don't know the rules of procedure. I don't have to go through you. I can address the secretary directly. So thank you for listening to me. And hopefully for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u81	Mr. Ambassador... First of all, hello, have a nice day. We took turns managing the meeting. I listened to you, Mr. Ambassador. I've recorded your point. However, please specify where you want to put it. A word wherever it really is not a point, and no President will decide for you where you want to put it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u82	You're right. So where do you put it? If it's the first point, it'll be right down the drain. If it's second, third... You know what? Do it as a chance - last point. Put it as the last point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u83	Noted. Thank you. Next in line is Mr Mašek. [[Not present.]] She's not here, then Mrs. Pokorná Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u84	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I come before you with a request to place two new points. Mr President, I will introduce them gradually. There. The first point I would like to place on the agenda for today's meeting is called Building Savings as a help during the energy crisis. I admit I don't understand the government's reasoning about shutting down building savings. I cannot understand this in the current situation where mortgages are being expensive so that few people can reach them, and housing costs, including energy prices, are skyrocketing. And instead of using a functioning system through which people can be effectively, simply and fairly quickly helped with housing, the government decides to eliminate it. I'm definitely not in the position of someone lobbying for building savings banks, but the interference of this product just doesn't take my mind off the simple human perspective. We've had construction savings here for 30 years. During that time, children's diseases have been solved, and in the current crisis situation, nothing would be easier than to dust off this system, adapt today's market conditions, and use it as a helping hand to people. It is an easy to regulate and stable market, where there is an adequate number of players and is under the long-term scrutiny of the central bank. I would also like to remind you that this is not some Czech specificity, but construction savings banks have been serving for decades in Germany or Austria, for example. The state's expenditure on building savings will certainly not be ripped out by the budget. Savings will be minimal, but it will add a lot of complications to people. After all, it is typical of this government that it brings unprecedented chaos into a functioning system. Instead of using the system of existing social benefits, they invent new ones. Then they have a lot of flaws. The government would have to be brilliant to come up with something from the table that usually goes through the development of decades. Take, for example, how many amendments have passed the social aid system since 1989, yet it is constantly being adjusted. But the Fialův Cabinet thinks they're gonna put the perfect product on the table in a week. That's naive nonsense, plus if the government is clearly suffering from a lack of professional background. And there are other impeccable creativity of the government. Instead of taking advantage of a situation where the state controls the majority of energy producers, as they do in other EU countries, an energy tariff is invented. Instead of preferring mass transportation, discounts are canceled and the fare is getting expensive so that people drive cars, consume more expensive petrol and pollute the air. But back to building savings. This was in the country before the mortgage market developed into usable form. People still use it for smaller investments in housing, reconstruction, energy efficiency reduction, solar panels, etc. All of this can be financed from this system without a problem. And, yes, there are savers who consider building savings to be a good investment without taking a loan for housing. But that's what this principle is built on from the very beginning. It also works abroad. It's an equivalent of cooperative bases, i.e. campels, which have been here since the first Republic in every village. I have a lot of people in my neighborhood who put their children into building savings to help them grow up to live. Moreover, nowadays, when mortgages are unavailable, everything is expensive and getting your own housing became an unrivalled cloud in the realm of dreams, building savings remained the only acceptable option. I would think the opposite of that would be a logical solution. Take the building savings system, make it attractive so that it can be used for the purchase of its own housing and help people with what is most troubling them, i.e. with a roof over their heads. At a time of rising energy prices and the critical situation in the housing market, I would consider this a meaningful solution. However, this government will make crosswords over a functioning and proven system of building savings and will invent some of its innovations. I don't understand her need to rub her right hand behind her left ear, and instead of simplifying people's lives, it's like people aren't worried about you anymore. Mr President, I would like to include this point as already loaded points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u85	Yes. And I'm gonna ask you one more time: Building savings as help - and fill me in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u86	Yes, I'll read it to you. Building savings as aid in a time of energy crisis. Yes. Another point, which I would very much like to be included in the meeting's negotiations, has the title Rewarding in Culture following energy prices. I would like to stand up for all the people who work in culture. Unfortunately, I must appeal strongly to the entire government because it turns out that Minister Baxa is afraid to stand up for his people. The government is intrigued by moral values and responsibilities. But if she meant it, she couldn't treat people in culture in such a stepmother way. We all know that each nation's existence is based on cultural and historical heritage. However, we cannot rely endlessly on cultural institutions to stand on people who do their work with love, but also on the edge of living. Try to have fun with someone who works in a museum, theater or other institution. I'll save you the job. Let me give you a few numbers to show you how an average worker in culture is doing. His salary is CZK 26,000. For comparison, overall, the average wage is over CZK 49,000, i.e. almost twice as much. If we stay low, our guy rents a 50 square meter apartment that pays $12,000 rent. For energy, fees, water will pay another CZK 6,000. For food, clothing, children's supplies, and other joys of life, he will be left with 8,000 a month. He can only dream of a mortgage, car, petrol, new washing machine or similar entertainment. In doing so, we are talking about a person with a higher education who wants to get to know, educate, grow professionally and give education to children as well. Where does a person like that get energy, food, and everything on the rise? Yes, maybe this year he will get a raise of 10 percent, i.e. an average of CZK 2,600. Rather, it will be less, because the increase concerns only tariffs, not any more rewards and surcharges. At the same time, the price is almost 20 percent. And why am I saying all this? To show how awful this government is living outside of reality. I guess I'm not the only one who's completely losing it to the government. He says he wants to help those who need it. But every average employee needs help, not just in culture. He lives on the limit of financial possibilities. Next year, there's a big question mark floating over the salaries in culture. I think it is high time the Ministry of Culture stood up for the employees for whom it is responsible and pushed for wage growth in 2023, which will be really noticeable. More than 2 percent of all employees work in the Czech culture. Over 112,000 professionals and 24,000 volunteers are involved. It is necessary to invest in these people because without them and without their creativity, enthusiasm and professionalism, culture will again fall into grey uninterestedness and we will again be begging for the lack of visitors. Culture can make money on itself, but it needs to be helped conceptually. So far, it looks like a fairy tale about a pussy with a dog making a cake. [[14.00 hours]] The minister throws in $570 million on film incentives, then subsidizes the National Theatre, then throws in half the law. Unfortunately, this is how the entire government works. Do families need help? Fine. We're gonna throw $5,000 at the kids. Are they raising rents? We'll add a little bit of housing allowance. Are they expensive energy? So let's throw in the cost-effective tariff. I lack any concept, outlook, long-term solutions. We have great professionals in the culture sector so far. But the new government is suffocating people who keep our culture above water. 112,000 people, it's not just a number, they're real people with families. Let's try to put ourselves in their shoes when we decide what we're going to give them. At least let us try to repay them for their work by creating conditions for a dignified life. I thank you for your attention and please place this point behind my last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u87	Thank you. So for approved meeting points from the logic of the matter. The next in line is Mr Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. There's so many of us in this room, you're almost scared. I'm going to have a permanent girl, and I'm going to propose a press classification number 41 - a trade bill amendment dealing with short-term accommodation. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the seventh try. I have already introduced this thing to you from the left, from the right, from the bottom, from the top, as it deals with other metropolises, what is the content, what are the biggest problems in the city centre and the fact that I am very sorry that we have to deal with this by law, even if it concerns the capital city of Prague - and all in vain. I'm gonna try it another way tonight at 7:00. And I assure everyone that the way in which MEPs stand up to this, especially those who are ruling in Prague at the moment, I will continue to spread it in relation to the public. Because there is a great deal of disproportion between what these parties are promising voters in Prague and how they are really voting here. So the pirát in their current program have that the services of short-term accommodation in otherwise uninhabited apartments lead to an increase in housing and eliminate the comfort of old-timers. - That's what I've been talking about in this introduction of x times. - We're gonna make it a better control of the simple rule that the apartment isn't a hotel and the housewarming matters. We allow people to have a real home in town. Holiday homes with permanent residents form a safe neighborhood and a healthy, sustainable city of short distances. If the city gets jurisdiction - and now it comes - if the city gets the authority to regulate Airbnb - I don't know why it's just Airbnb, this is a matter of short-term accommodation, why they're pulling one company out of it - and similar platforms, then we're going to use it to make a meaningful change. - They even write "if" in the program the city gets. I've been talking about this for three quarters of a year. I deliberately left psp.cz when it came in. So, please, nicely, the draft law of the Prague City Representative, it's not my law, it's not my amendment, so it arrived as press 41 November 16, 2021. The government sent an opinion 15. 12. and the President of the House recommended the negotiation of the bill on 4 January 2022. Today we're at the end of August and we haven't succeeded, or I haven't succeeded in putting this place through my ruthless efforts. I keep reading. Just to remind you, this is the proposal of the Prague City Representative, where the mayor, who is behind the Pirate Party, is in charge. I'm in opposition there. - The excess use of flats for short-term tourist accommodation, especially in the central parts of the city, devalues both neighbourly relations, night quiet, safety in co-used apartment houses, and increases rent prices. It is one of the reasons why people from the center move to the outskirts of the city outside of Prague. - That's another part of the Pirate program. - What have we done? - Pirates brag. - We called on the government to give municipalities the authority to regulate short-term housing in apartments. Well, then these people aren't really getting anything out of it. That's not what they're getting. We here have a parked change, a very simple one, which will allow municipalities to delegate this thing to their own territory. Maybe only Prague will use it, maybe Karlovy Vary I heard, Český Krumlov, I don't know. But it's up to the municipalities. We've got it here, I've been trying to put it here all the time, I've managed to make some sort of hallucination here on Friday, I remember it was Friday, to present that a few members of the coalition still probably naively voted in favour of some opposition proposal, so that the chairman of STAN would then propose to interrupt that point, and from that moment it's on ice. So the pirát are bragging about calling on the government, I'm saying here, the law is here, let's discuss it, or let's reject it, co-workers, colleagues. Then let's turn him down. That's legitimate, too. But then don't say in your programs that you're dealing with it in some way. Because the neighbourly relationships and the security aren't gonna be fixed by someone calling on the government, but by changing the law here. Now from the association program for Prague. We will support the establishment of clear rules for shared housing platforms such as Airbnb - in turn, they name one company. We prefer that apartments serve for long-term housing and their owners are more motivated to do so. - So, this is where I come up with KDU and TOP 09, which are in the government in Prague to make it fair, so I'm trying to split it up like this. And I know that, for example, colleagues from the ODS have a different opinion over the long term and are in opposition there. So they're in the government of Prague, they've got it in the program, and no one's gonna vote for it here to discuss it at all, and so on. When I look -- and now I'm not gonna keep you from saying that I'm stalling here, I'm talking about putting that point on the program -- that's what everybody has in their program. Even Prague to itself - I will not read it here, because there is no Member from Prague, here was the last Jenda Čižinský in the club KDU, they also have in the program how they turn and return, here they write, Airbnb original purpose. Just like Solidarity 2022, they're not in the Chamber of Deputies either, so I'm not gonna hold it up to stretch this place out. All the subjects have it in their electoral program. Unfortunately, I'm the only one who's designing the program here. And you don't have the courage to put it together and face it. Let's say on a microphone: the Ministry of Regional Development is preparing a wider option, so we'll drop it, and you'll just vote to show what your real attitude is. This seems fair to me, too. It seems fair to me anything rather than being parked here for ten months, but in the programs, you will all be especially proud of the citizens and voters from the centre of Prague, how you deal with it, how you call for it and so on. Nothing. Tonight's the seventh try. I, in that case, and because it can be very easy for it to pass through the second reading, want to include this as the first point in today's negotiations, and I will do so until the municipal elections, and I will constantly repeat to you the promises that are in the electoral programme, and the reality that is then here in the Chamber of Deputies. So I'd take the number 41 press, which is normally on the agenda, so that's not a new point, putting it as the first item in today's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u89	Thank you. I believe you are proposing to include the first item in today's meeting. And Mr Foldyna will continue, and Mrs Knechtová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I have prepared two points to discuss today's meeting and prepare its programme. Two points, and I'm not making too much of an illusion that they'll be accepted. Anyway, I'll try. I'm going to try to get that opinion to come out here. One point concerns energy savings in the framework of the operation of the Chamber of Deputies, so I would call that point. [[14.10 hours]] We, from the mouth of coalition politicians, five koalice, heard the princely councils of the Czech public. You tell them, colleagues and colleagues, Madam President of the House advises them to take a sweater, you tell people that 25 degrees is no human right to have 25 degrees in the apartment, you say that it will drown at 18 degrees, and you have created chaos in society, fear, especially in the society of older people, seniors, for whom it is complicated enough to endure and live at such temperatures. You don't mind at all. You are constantly making excuses for this war, and you are acting as if you were not able to negotiate that Europe caused the energy crisis by its madness around Green Deal, that it is an ideological issue, that it is emission allowances that are burdened by companies in Europe, and that emission allowances are used by various monetary funds and pension funds, even overseas. So I think that when we advise, and especially members of the five-calice, when you advise people to take a sweater so that they don't drown, that what degree, it will be better to fight, friends, when you advise them like this, let's set an example in this House. And I propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic instructs the President of the House to take measures to ensure that no room in the Chamber of Deputies is heated to temperatures above 17 degrees. Take two sweaters when you advise people to take a sweater. So you, we'll take two sweaters so those old people just have the example. That's one point. And we can put him at the end of all those points, last. On the penultimate point, I propose another point. He's dealing with a little bit of the tenor. This is a kind of moral codification, a moral codification on which we have built one of the most successful regions, Europe. You know, not stopping at the death of a man, the death of a civilian, ironically wishing him dead is immoral. And I do not think that members of the Czech Government should express themselves that way. It's immoral. The White House spokesperson to the death of that Russian citizen Duginová said that the death caused by the terrorist attack must be investigated and the culprit punished. The Pope said he felt sorry for innocent victims. There wasn't a single state in the U.N. that would call it Kish, Kish, we like it. We have the Minister of Czech Government who expressed satisfaction over his words. And I don't think we should keep quiet about that. You know, there's something in that tenor that you don't want to happen to you, you don't want it to happen to others. I don't wish it on the secretary. No one. I don't like war and no terrorism. No death. If soldiers fight, even their deaths are hard for families, for parents. And to satisfy the minister of our government that somewhere someone was killed by a terrorist attack, it's undignified. I believe, therefore, that the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic should distance itself from statements relating to the death of Darja Alexandra Duginová, as published on social networks by the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic, Mrs Jana Černochová. And that should be the resolution of that penultimate point, or my second point, which I would propose as the penultimate point of this hearing. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u91	Thank you. I understand that the first point of the Energy Savings in the framework of the operation of the Chamber of Deputies is the last point and the PSP's position on terrorism as the penultimate point. Okay. Thank you, and I'll invite Mrs Knechtová to the microphone. Mr Kobza will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u92	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I propose to include a new item in this meeting entitled The contribution of municipalities to energy payments as a second item in this meeting. After six months, this government triumphantly presented the so-called austerity tariff. Not only is it a spit in the water, but the government totally bailed on the companies. Thanks to energy prices and will not support the state, our companies on the European market are completely uncompetitive. The government has, of course, forgotten not only the companies but also the municipalities. How is the municipality supposed to address energy prices with an already tense budget? Municipal leaders are really desperate, and we really can't solve the situation with a sweater. For example, universities consider distance teaching because they simply do not pay for heating. Even the authorities today call on the government to regulate the market. By the way, we proposed market regulation as opposition at the beginning of this year. I would like to quote from the daily work of our mayors of the municipalities. Question: Hello, I would like to address you with a request for prices for next year for electricity and gas according to our offers last year for the village, office, elementary school, kindergarten and Zušku. And the normal answer from the sales manager is: Currently, the price offers from the market are suspended until further notice, so I cannot prepare the required valuation. The price on the market is constantly changing. Yesterday's electricity prices affected the price of CZK 17,800 per megawatt hour without VAT and natural gas CZK 7,800 per megawatt hour without VAT. In case you are not in a hurry to conclude a contract, you can try to contact me again during September. However, price offers for any exemption are valid only for an hour. Current prices go to me after 11.45 and acceptance is required within the hour. Unfortunately, longer validity is not possible. - And you'll find an offer that's 16 times higher than what the municipality paid in 2021. For the first time in June 2022, in 30 years of urban operation, the council had to find funds in the approved budget to increase operational contributions to the city's contribution organisations for 2022. The reason for this is an increase in energy prices this year beyond approved budgets. To illustrate, I have selected specific numbers for you, which are the output of the meeting of one council, valid from 1 July 2022. The increase in the operating allowance for one primary school is CZK 532 000 and will amount to CZK 5 532 000 in total for 2022. The increase in the operating contribution for the second primary school is CZK 784 000, total amount to CZK 4 484 000 for 2022. The increase in the operating allowance for one kindergarten is CZK 111 000, and the total amount is the cost of 2022 for the operating allowance of CZK 1 711 000. The increase in the operating allowance for the second kindergarten is 92 000 and the total amount will be the operating allowance for the year 2022 1 542 000 CZK. The increase in the operating contribution for the leisure centre is CZK 143 000, and the total amount will be CZK 2,643 000 for 2022. The following is an increase in operational contribution for the city cultural centre, office buildings, libraries. [[14.20 hours]] What are the community's contribution organizations? These are organizations that are especially there for our children and seniors. Can municipalities and cities cope without help? Without our help? The answer is clear. They can't. If we do not find a solution, municipal budgets will only be about energy payments. There won't be anywhere to co-finance the projects. And the mayors ask me at many meetings: How do you want to deal with this? It won't give me and I'll share with you one story from my hometown, which is definitely one of thousands. The lady lives in a city apartment, works as a cashier, she's in insolvency, because after the divorce, her husband's debts were left behind. For some time, she was helped by adult children who had already moved away. It has increased its costs - and what are the necessary expenses in normal human life? Food, energy. Both prices increase dramatically. She'd need a smaller apartment, but where do you get it? How is the community, the city supposed to help its citizens in these difficult situations of life, where they are literally drowning in problems that would not be, if the government were to put energy prices on the table in the spring? Please look for solutions for companies, for municipalities, because we live in a community so that we do not perish as individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u93	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you when you want to place the point. I didn't notice that. The contribution to energy payments to municipalities is the name of your new point that you propose. Tell me where you want him. As in the second point of today's meeting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u94	As a second item in today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u95	Let's keep going. Another enrollment is Mr Kobza. Mr Jakob will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to propose that we place another item at today's meeting. This is a point that has been waiting for discussion for the fourth year, and it is a proposal by SPD Members to amend Act No.40/2009 Coll., the Criminal Code. It's House press number 13. This is a ban on the promotion and dissemination of hate ideologies. It is our debt to eliminate the shortcomings of the law, which does not address the issue of public dissemination of ideologies promoting hatred for groups of people on the basis of their race, gender, belief, nationality or other common characteristics. It is time to correct this deficiency and add two words to the wording of the law for the term movement, that is the amendment of the law - for the word movement, because the law prohibits the promotion of the movement, so add two words: or ideology. It is not only now known hateful and hostile ideologies that already exist in reality, but also such ideologies that are known less and which we may not yet know practically. It can also be ideologies that can be imported to us in the future from outside, or such ideologies that can yet arise, whether they are hidden under various sophisticated -isms and all kinds of specific expressions that will have the task of covering their true nature. Let us therefore give our police, state prosecutors and courts an effective tool to deal with the spread of hate ideologies not only now but also in the future. Let us give such spreadings with this law a clear signal that they will come across, come across the law, and, like those who break the law, they will also be dealt with. It is our commitment to citizens, to voters, even in the sense that we will take care of the security of this country and its citizens. Let us therefore make this commitment across the political parties and support this proposed amendment. Our citizens no doubt deserve that if any ideology calls for hatred, we must be on guard against it and we must have an effective law that will enable us to confront it in time. So, by far, it is not just the selective prosecution of Islam, as we are sometimes encouraged, however much Islam is among these hateful and dangerous ideologies. These include, like, Nazism or any other ideology calling for violence and hatred against certain groups of people. Islam is not just a religion. It is a very complex ideology that solves up to the smallest detail and the personal life of Muslims, their relationship with non-believers, also includes the methodology of expansion into non-Muslim countries in the form of Islamization. This doctrine of the conquest of the West has recently been characterized by political Islam according to the doctrine of Imam Chameneí. Let us remember here one regulation that goes on with all of Islamic teaching. Not adapting to the environment or the host country. Non-integrated. Convincing Muslims of the superiority of infidels and non-believers, so-called cafes, in their own country. Furthermore, there is also the obligation to Islamise non-Islamic countries and to dominate them using all instruments, means and in their eyes as well as the weakness of democracy. There is a difference between the take-off and beautiful words of some so-called Islamologists about the contribution of Islam to culture and Europe and the cruel reality that we see not only in the Middle East and North Africa in Islamic countries that are torn apart by civil wars, but also in Western Europe, which is now in the grip of the endless situation between brutal violence and terror caused by mass illegal Islamic immigration and the political correctness of its own governments. So let us learn from the mistakes of our neighbors and not protect those who want to destroy us. It is not worth so much effort to see what the situation in the countries west of us looks like, where Islamists take the initiative and power in certain areas, where Muslim enclaves arise under the domination of the rights of Sharia and its enforcers and executors, and where locals are afraid to go. We see the tolerance of teenage wives and open pedophilia under our laws, even polygamy, not to mention the tolerance of mass violence against women, for example, in the form of marriage rape of underage wives. How long and where else Western Europe wants to retreat, and if it even has somewhere to back up, that is a question. The next question is whether their governments have the right to do so and have the consent of their citizens. And if anyone thinks that we are safe here in the Czech boiler room, then I would like to remind you that we Čech have our victims of Islamic terrorists. They were real people, our fellow citizens. They had their families, their lives, their dreams. They died because of hate ideology because they were in the wrong place at the wrong time. He therefore deserves me to read their names to you: Petr Kořán, murdered by a Muslim attacker on July 24, 2005 in the Egyptian Sharm al-Shaichu. Ivo Žďárek, diplomat and ambassador, murdered in a terrorist attack by Islamists in Islamabad on 20 September 2008. Pavel Hrůza murdered by the Islamic State in Libya, the exact date is unknown, but it was in 2016. Naďa Čižmárová, mother of two children, murdered by an Islamic terrorist in an attack in Berlin on December 19, 2016. Lenka Civínová, stabbed by an Islamic terrorist on July 14, 2017 in Hurghada, Egypt. These Čech, our fellow citizens, were murdered by Islamic fanatics who wanted to kill random unbelievers in the name of Islamic ideology just because they were on vacation or simply at hand at that moment. Since September 11, 2001, more than 5,000 Američan and Evropan have been killed by Islamic terrorists. So I'm asking, how many more victims of Islamic attackers are going to have to be here to wake up the apologyists and promoters of Islam and finally begin to understand what's going on and take action? Is the sad and bloody story of the transformation of Lebanon from a democratic, open and multicultural beautiful country to a bloody bath of civil war not enough? How much more blood will it take for Czech legislators to wake up from the nightmare of political correctness and finally start protecting their citizens? Let us say this clearly and out loud: Islam according to our social and legal standards, even according to the results of the judicial proceedings with Mr Sáňka, whom I will still speak, is clearly confirmed as an ideology incompatible with the democratic values of our civilization and culture based on the principle of human freedom and indivisible individual human rights. [[14.30 hours]] Islam is an ideology that disguises itself as a religion. According to Islam, democracy and democratic regime are weak, rotten and despicable. Islam, according to its own assessment of the ideologies chosen with the promise of a paradise full of pleasure for anyone who dies in its spread or in its interest. It is best that he kills as many unbelievers as possible. Everyone can join, but no one can come out because heresy is a capital crime in Islam. But let us return to the question of the difference between faith and Islam's policy. According to Bill Warner, a world-famous translator of Islamic writings, it can be said that if someone at home prays in Arabic turned to the southeast, it is his faith, his private business, and no one has a problem with it. But if another 500 or five thousand confederates pray in public spaces, on the street, block the street, it's political Islam, it's already politics. Who you've visited Paris or Brussels in recent years, you probably know what I'm talking about. The legal regulation we propose aims to build a barrier to all the hateful ideologies that are here and will be, as well as their promoters or preachers. It is also an ideology that is yet to come because we well understand the seriousness of the moment in which we are now both as a country and as a European civilization. We are trying to learn, in particular, from what has been happening in Western Europe in recent years. We are trying to exploit this fact in order to be able to defend ourselves from repeating this development in our own country. The purpose of our proposal is not to ban Islam en bloc. That would be a very narrow view. Our intention is much wider. The purpose of our proposal is to strongly oppose public promotion, support and dissemination of hate ideologies, current, future, known and still unknown, which call for violence, killing and hate, and to bring them all out of the law. I mentioned here in relation to the legality and need of our novel the case of the former President of the Prague Muslim municipality Vladimír Sáňka. This man was not punished by the court, although he was clearly spreading radical and hateful Islamic texts. In 2018, the Prague Court finally exonerated him. His case related to the publication of the book of Bilal Philips entitled The Foundations of Tahid - the Islamic Concept of God. The author of the book is not allowed in some Western states, including Germany and Great Britain. The book is banned in some states. It promotes the so-called Salafi direction of Islam, which proclaims hatred not only for other religions. According to forensic experts, the book is hateful and based on the same sources as the Islamic State. The text of the book then explicitly calls for hatred against non-Islamic governments and the Salafi direction of Islam, from which the text is measured against other religions. Vladimír Sáňka was accused of issuing and distributing this book for the crime of establishing, supporting and promoting a movement aimed at suppressing human rights and freedoms. The First Instance Court exonerated Sáňka in 2016. This judgment was annulled by the Court of Appeal and brought back the case for further evidence. The second acquittal verdict from 2018 is already final. According to this final court statement, the Sáňka did not commit any crime because it failed to prove that it supported the movement by its actions - I stress the word of the movement - aimed at suppressing the rights and freedoms of citizens. According to the court's expert reports, Salafism cannot be regarded as a movement. As a movement, we can only identify those who have adopted one of the forms of this ideology as their own. A group of persons is considered to be a movement at least partially organized, which does not meet Salafism as an ideology. On the contrary, the prosecutor insisted that the spread of the book should be punished because he believes salafism is a movement. According to the court, the question at the heart of the dispute was whether salafism was a movement within the meaning of Section 403 of the Criminal Code. If we answer this question negatively, any further evidence is no longer relevant, the court also said. This case also showed that the law has a significant gap. It can be interpreted as affecting only the promotion of a particular movement that proclaims the suppression of freedoms, but not the very ideology that represents and promotes hatred and violations of human rights. The only reason the Sáňka was liberated is because he did not promote a specific hate movement, but spread and promote a hateful ideology, namely theological direction of conservative Islam. Let us add that the absurdity of the fact that the ex-chairman of the Prague Muslim municipality Sáňka received compensation of CZK 600,000 from taxpayers' money for his criminal prosecution, which was found illegal for the reasons described above, means those against whom he spread hatred and calls for liquidation. The law should clearly say what the legislature requires and expects what values it defends. In this case, it is about preventing socially dangerous public promotion of hatred, denying human rights, restricting equality between people without distinction from their nationality, belonging to an ethnic group, race, religion, class or other group of persons. At the same time, the proposed amendment does not restrict any human faith, even socially negative, merely restricts and sanctions the public dissemination and promotion of such an ideology, which threatens the freedoms of others and their lives, for example, by calling for the destruction of certain persons, their groups on the basis of their permanence or characteristics. The spread of hateful ideologies is clearly a socially extremely dangerous matter, especially if it is highly proven and on specific cases proven by its connection to the commission of specific violence. Violence in the name of these ideologies, which, for example, in the case of Islamic terrorists and rapists, does not hide from it, but brags about it. As I have pointed out, it does not have to be a case of Islam, although it is clearly the most dangerous ideology in our geographical area that proclaims hatred and calls for violence. With the support of headless immigration to Europe, our authorities must expect to import other hateful ideologies, whether in the form of religious sects or simply import of violence as a normal part of life. I don't want to accept that. Violence, though cleverly hidden behind religion or ideology, is, after all, totally unacceptable to our rule of law. Cases such as the attack of a Muslim on a nurse in a hospital in Bulovka or the rape of a schoolgirl in Litoměřicka and the last attempted murder and rape in Karlovy Vary must be a clear warning and a challenge for our legislation to act and act to support a law that will send a clear signal from the beginning that we will not tolerate such things here under any pretext. The first and necessary step that we must take against this is therefore to incorporate this fact into our rule of law and to protect our citizens. After all, this is our primary duty, an obligation to which we consciously signed up in our parliamentary pledge. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have the responsibility for the security of our country's citizens. I ask you to support this amendment because its importance is enormous and is increasingly important in view of the European Union's asylum and migration plan. If you support the discussion of our proposal and then our proposal, you will be able to look into the eyes of the survivors of the murdered. I can ask those who are against this amendment and against it itself: If the five Čech murdered so far are not enough for you, how many more do you need to understand how serious the situation is? Thank you for your attention and please place this item on the agenda and I would like to ask you as a fourth point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u97	So that was the first point you suggested. I'll read it, if I've made a correct note - Amendment to Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, so let's name that point, and you want it as the fourth point of our meeting today. You're logged in one more time to the second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u98	Then I have another one. The message isn't that long. As a second point, my fellow Members, I would like to propose the inclusion of a point, it is House press number 16, which is the proposal of the Group of Members of the SPD to amend the law on public holidays, on other holidays, on important days and on working quiet days. This is the second time we have made this proposal. He didn't make it to the House during the last parliamentary term. The proposal contains two points. Firstly, we propose to include among the important days of the Czech Republic 15 March as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries. Secondly, we propose to change the sign of an important day on 18 June, from the present Day of the heroes of the second resistance to the Day of the heroes of the resistance against the German occupation of the Czech countries. [[14.40 hours]] The reasons leading us to this are as follows. March 15, 1939 is the beginning of the most tragic stage in modern Czech history. The Czech State lost the last remnants of any state sovereignty that day. As a result, a direct German military occupation, when the military occupation power took over all state administration, and a six-year period of general and targeted terror, killing citizens of the Czech countries, today's Czech Republic, which clearly had genocidal features and genocidal character. According to the results of the research of historians of the Military Central Archive in Prague, the number of victims of the German Nazi regime is approximately 343 000 people throughout the then Czechoslovak state, Czechoslovakia. But that number does not include people who died after World War II on the consequences of abuse, persecution, the consequences of prisons in concentration camps and prisons, the consequences of so-called total deployment, and so on, so that the actual number of actual victims of the occupation is even higher and will not be far from one million people. The number of direct victims of German persecution in the Czech Republic alone is at least 122 000 people. During the existence of the so-called German Protectorate, at least 8,000 citizens were executed in our country, some 70,000 Czech Žid died in concentration and extermination camps, and another 3,500 died in forced labor in Germany. The victims of German terror became the entire village, the most famous are Lidice and Ležáky. It is also important to stress that 100,000 Čech died in the domestic resistance alone. That is why it must be clearly recalled on 15 March, not only as a monument to these heroes, these victims of the German occupation, but rather that the law on state holidays already, and it is so right, includes among Czech important days 27 June as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the Communist regime and 21 August as the Memorial Day of the victims of the invasion and subsequent occupation of the Warsaw Treaty army, where the number of victims was several orders lower than in the case of German occupation. In this context, in this law and in view of respect for historical truth, and especially in view of respect for the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries and the survivors of them, this day, March 15, as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries, should certainly take place. Another reason for the proposed change is still a progressive and unacceptable attempt to rewrite history, especially the attempt to relativize guilt for World War II, the attempt to relativize the damage done by the German regime during this war and before it since 1938 on the Czech country and on the Czech people. There is also a strange campaign going on in public space trying to convince us and, in particular, our young generation that the German occupation of the Czech countries was just one of the historical episodes that affected our state and which was basically nothing special. Czech citizens, soldiers and civilians demonstrated extraordinary heroism and courage in the face of German occupation and German power. Abroad on war fronts, in various anti-Nazi armies, but mainly in domestic resistance, where the situation was by far the most difficult. This is the reason for the second amendment proposed by us, which is the renaming of the important day of June 18 from the present Day of the heroes of the second resistance to the Day of the heroes of the resistance against the German occupation of the Czech countries. The point is that there's a clear term for everyone to know why this day is important. The concept of the second resistance is now quite vague, unaddressed, neutral and also less widely known in general awareness. Try asking someone from a young generation to tell him that term. And here too, in this case, there is an argument about the unprecedented inequality of the anti-German, anti-Nazi resistance in relation to other historical types of our Czech and Czechoslovak resistance. This resistance was fundamentally the most extensive, strongest, innumerable in terms of its intensity, as well as the number of its actors and its victims, as well as the nature of the enemy they opposed. Ladies and gentlemen, in the name of the historical truth, in the name of the victims of the German occupation, in the name of the heroes of the resistance and opposition to the occupation, please place this point on the agenda of this meeting as the fifth point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u99	Thank you, too. I'm just gonna check that the name of that point is Press 16, on state holidays. That's what I got from you, Mr. Ambassador. Press number 16, on public holidays. That's what you call a point, like the fifth point of the meeting. Thank you. Next is Mr. Jan Jakob. I don't see him here, so let's put him at the end. A colleague named Jakoba was joined by Mr Brabec. He's not present either. Mr. Tureček, then. It's not. Next in line is Mrs Peštová. I'm texting absent. She's present, she walked in, she walked in the door. Now, Madame, you have the floor. [[The Member is going to the desk for written materials.]] Mrs Peštová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, I would like to place a point of compensation for entrepreneurs in Czech Switzerland. As is known, I am, of course, a Member of the Ústí Region. We've all been experiencing the environmental disaster at the moment, the fire that was in Czech Switzerland. Of course, I thank the government for the support that goes there, but one support that just doesn't go there, so that's the support towards entrepreneurs. The Ústí Region, in cooperation with the Czech Switzerland's destination agency, calculated all the damage that was incurred there for entrepreneurs in business. At present, the losses have actually exceeded the value of CZK 300 million, which is not enough. Of course, both the region and the entrepreneurs expect the government to stand up to it in some way. Of course, we also monitor our colleagues abroad. Currently, the Saxon State Ministry of Science, Culture and Tourism has launched an emergency aid programme in Saxon Switzerland due to the devastating forest fires and is currently worth EUR 2 million for them. This programme was approved by them on 23 August 2022, and for illustration only, so that the government could have instructions or at least know how our colleagues in Germany approached it, and the extraordinary assistance to one enterprise amounts to up to EUR 5 000 per month of August, the contribution in the municipalities of Bad Schandau and Sebnitz, which have been affected for a long time by the fact that there are bans in the woods, is actually EUR 10 000 per month of August and up to EUR 7 500 per September. For the undertakings concerned in Bad Schandau and Sebnitz, which have at least 30 employees or operate at least three establishments and at least one of them in Bad Schandau or Sebnitz, the contribution for August shall be EUR 20,000 and up to EUR 15 000 respectively. So I would very much like to call on the government here, and therefore I would like this item to be included in the agenda for this meeting as item 1. I repeat, I am glad that the government has already sent a subsidy title through the Ministry of Environment, which is being drawn there, and I would like the government to help those entrepreneurs who are very affected by the fire. The region will, of course, contribute, or in the direction of the government, it has offered that it would also be willing to administer this grant title, which would be open to these entrepreneurs. And like I said, I'd like it to be point one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u101	Also thank you, I noted the point of compensation to entrepreneurs in Czech Switzerland, the first point of the meeting you propose it. Next is Mrs Balaštíková, Mr Ryba will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u102	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask for the inclusion of a point that I called the Agriculture Crisis. I do not just mean the crisis in Czech agriculture, I mean the crisis in European Union agriculture. We are the President of the countries, and therefore we are concerned with this whole issue, and we are more concerned than all the others. We are now responsible for this. Everyone expected that the priorities of the Prime Minister, given the economic situation, given the increase in entry prices in agriculture and food raw materials such as fertilisers, pesticides, given the abnormal increase in energy prices and PHM, given the fall in supply of food raw materials from countries affected by war, will reflect the real market situation and will also respond to Green Deal's demands in the Czech Republic. In short, the Prime Minister of the country will come up with priorities to help bridge today's difficult situation in the agri-food sector and try to clarify the situation, introduce a new debate that is needed and should be aimed at reducing Europe's self-destructive green policy. When the priorities of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the field of agriculture were presented, this could perhaps be considered a mockery given what is happening now. But not a mockery to Czech farmers, but to all farmers in the European Union. And I'll explain why. Our free and independent media do not inform us about what is happening in the world, you need to learn it as an ordinary citizen from foreign sources, because this government has ensured that the media only writes about how everything is watered by the sun and how successful the government is and citizens are satisfied with its actions. So if, of course, you read the foreign press, which is available today for payment on the Internet, you will find that farmers' strikes are not only taking place in our country, but also in other countries, they are taking place in Denmark, Holland, the last time there were large strikes in France, despite the fact that these countries are much more interested in this resort and much more, much more help and support their farmers, more than they do in our country, because they know how important food production is to their residents. And despite all these government actions by these countries, their farmers are protesting. They protest because they feel that it is not enough, that there is devastation in this field, and they call for their politicians to stand up for them and for representatives of their governments to fight for them. And their politicians did. And if we ask both at the meeting of the Economic Committee at the European Parliament, representatives of Germany, Spain and Italy spoke and called for a vote on the revision of the Green Deal. Yes, the political representatives of these countries wanted to review the Green Deal. And how did our Minister Nekula behave? How did he respond to the demands of the representatives of these countries? He did not hear them and he did not even use them for the benefit of our farmers and citizens, but as the Prime Minister, he ended this discussion without conclusion. What we have seen has happened in the Czech Republic for several months. Nothing seems to have happened again, but this time the minister was wrong. Mr. Nekula, the minister, was really wrong because something happened and maybe it will happen again. By its decision, it has damaged agriculture throughout the European Union. These decisions fall on his head and go to the Presidency of the Czech Republic. It is he and this government, which will ensure food shortages through its actions, will ensure, in particular, the financial availability of food for our citizens and will provide us with a higher dependence on imports, will ensure higher prices not only for food, and will allow a number of our producers and processors to fall. What else could we expect when an Ing is the chief advisor to the Minister of Agriculture. Prouza, the foreign chain salesman? The Advisory Body of the Minister should be all professional agri-food organisations, and I think that the Minister should speak primarily to experts who represent these organisations or are in the field where they have proven results. And I'm not saying how big businesses, anyone who's productive, who pays taxes, employs people, regardless of their size. And if that were the case, then the Ministry of Agriculture could not produce nonsense that harms the whole Czech economy, and thus our citizens, and worse, ultimately harms the whole of Europe. To be fair, other ministers have teams of advisors, not only Minister Nekula. The expression of some ministers and ministers may be called smiley, but the nation already knows, most nations have named the show, it is amateurism, which is to cry, as we Čech have a government with an idealistic view of the functioning of the economy and the politics of the world, which is far from reality. And let us return to the crisis in agriculture in the European Union, which has been successfully deepened by our Presidency, and unfortunately not only in the agricultural sector. This is also a reason to submit my request for a new item to be discussed. And one more memento to finish. If I point it out, add it up, it means one thing to me: Minister Nekula wants to live through the Presidency period without any problems, he wants the boat with its ministerial chair not to be threatened and to arrive in a port called the end of the Presidency happily and without storms. But I am afraid that it will not succeed, that there will be storms, and it will probably not just be a peasant storm, because if the European Union's direction and its politicians' thinking cannot change and the ratio does not come, it will be the end of Europe's self-sufficiency not only in food, and Europe's dependence will increase on other continents. That's what's been going on for years. And unfortunately, those who rule us, and I don't mean just Czech politicians, maybe they don't understand or want to. They are not just Czech government officials who are lost in the world's policies and economic pressures of large foreign corporations. But our politicians could have earned change from idealistic direction to rational approach, and the great Europe, which once gave direction, did not have to stand at the end of the chain today, because its politicians weren't on the ground, they were just dealing with politics, green dealing, and the need for and self-confidence of their opinions. Therefore, I beg you to include this point for discussion, as I wrote in my request, at the end of all the forward points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u103	Yes, I'll just recapitulate, you're suggesting a point of the Agricultural Crisis and the order for the end of the predefined points. [[Agreed.]] The next report is with priority rights, Mr Jakob, and I am handing over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to comment on the lectures of the previous speakers, but, if possible, on the agenda. I will propose the inclusion of two new points very briefly, as requested at the beginning of the negotiations at the adoption of the agenda. [[15.00 hours]] I'd like two points, please. The first is a government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty, signed on 5 July 2022 in Brussels. It's the House press 274. And as the second new item of the Government's proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic has given its consent to ratifying the Protocol on the access of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty, signed on 5 July 2022 in Brussels. This is the House Press 275. Both are designed at first reading according to § 90 para. 2 and, in agreement with the presidents of coalition clubs, I propose them as the second and third points of today's negotiations, so that we first come to terms with the first point on which we are meeting today. Finally, the President's veto requires a standing ovation, unlike these two treaties. Very briefly, we all know what's going on. It is about the accession of these two countries to NATO. I think there's quite a broad consensus here, so even the discussion can be quite quick. The Senate has already been ratified. We haven't had a month of meetings right now, so it would be worth our approval. A number of Member States have already done so notabene, so that we are not the last. So I'm asking for the inclusion of these two new prints and the inclusion as points 2 and 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u105	Thank you. Well, hello. Have a good afternoon. I have therefore registered the President's proposal for two new points. And now we can proceed to another application for the agenda, namely Mr Drahoslav Ryba. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u106	Madam President, colleagues, I would like to propose the inclusion of a point entitled Changes in legislation and firefighters' equipment in view of the experience of the fire in Hřensko. About a month and two days ago there was a huge fire in Hřensko, which in the Czech Republic at least has no equivalent in my memory. And when I remember, we had forest fires every year, but the biggest fire I remember was forest fire, fire in Hodonínsk near Bzenka in 2012, where about 100 hectares burned. But we're talking about an area that's so much bigger, we're talking about an area of about 1,060 hectares, which is a really unprecedented fire. Several factors contributed to the fire, why the fire was so great. The one sure is what the Czech Switzerland National Park is based on, the huge drought that ruled contributed to it, the weather, the high temperatures, but also the huge amount of flammable material that was gathered in the National Park. He gathered there, among other things, because, in my opinion, I am not an agricultural expert, but the national park responded inadequately to the crust that multiplied in the national park. Huge areas were created here, which were attacked by a barkworm and which then dried up and thus created a huge amount of heavily flammable material. I would like to say in the introduction that the right and perhaps the vision of a population group should always end there if they threaten the lives, health and property of other citizens, citizens who live in a given locality or live in a nearby neighborhood. The Czech Republic has four national parks, and I must say that the approach of the management of these national parks to fire protection and the protection of actually those neighbours and property, lives, everyone approaches quite differently. Such a very good example can be the Šumava National Park, which really, and now in quotation marks, the leadership was enlightened and where they really created a lot of things to prevent uncontrolled spread of fire. Unfortunately, such a good example was not followed by some others, even the Czech Switzerland National Park, which is why this fire is not said to have been created, but why this fire was so intense, it spread so quickly. In addition to the fact that it meant great losses for the national park, it also meant great losses for the municipalities, both on property and, therefore, on property and citizens. And among other things, and it is also necessary to say, of course, that this fire was destroyed only because of the huge deployment of voluntary and professional firefighters. So much effort that more than 60 people were injured in the fire. I spoke to some of the firemen who intervened there, and it really was a great hell at some stages. Now, since such fires can generally be repeated, what must be done to prevent such fires from happening again? And that's why I propose this point here. It is also necessary to discuss this because it is not possible by law to force the approach it has on this issue, as I have already said, such as the Šumava National Park, so I think that it is necessary to change legislation so that some measures simply national park, if it approaches an intervention zone, is forced to do so. I'm not gonna list them all here, there's gonna be a whole bunch of them. But at least the basic one. There's no way there's no way there's free access routes. There is no way that water is not provided for the disposal of such fires. It would certainly be worth considering and discussing, there are a number of systems in the world that supervise such non-impact zones and such areas. These are all things that need to be done preventively. And I'm convinced those national parks won't make them unless they're forced by law in quotation marks. The other thing I'd like to mention here is my own extinguishing or technique, firefighters. The firemen were ready, they did their best. Unfortunately, they interfered with the technique they had. In the fire department, as well as voluntary units, there was an unprecedented intervention in the cuts or cuts that took place in 2011 to 2013 and a huge debt in the equipment of firefighters. The technique is getting old, but I have to say objectively that the basic technique that intervened there has not been negatively affected by the intervention. And in this particular case, I wouldn't have seen it, even though the problem as such with the age-old technology in the form of life persists, although in those last, I don't know, eight years have managed to fix things. But what could not be resolved, and I consider it to be a bit of a failure, because at that time I was the CEO, and even at that time we talked about the Czech Republic having huge problems with aviation firefighting. These fires cannot be extinguished without aerial firefighting, or at least very difficult. There are two systems in the world, and in our country, basically, by which air fighting is carried out. It's a helicopter system and a bambi bag hanging under it. In the Czech Republic they are bambi bags with a volume of approximately 700, 900 liters of water mostly. There are bigger ones, so it depends on the helicopter he's able to pick up the bambi bag. However, it must be said that there is a huge difference between bambi bags and planes in what they are intended for and what they serve for. The Bambi bag primarily serves to knock down a relatively large amount of water in one place or on a relatively small strip. The water will end there unbreakable or very little fragmented and it will be used rather to break down and prevent the fire from spreading further. If we want to put out an effective fire, we have to use planes. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic currently has three aircraft that can be used for firefighting, of which there are two aircraft in operation. But they're planes that are long over their lifetime, and they're so-called angels, as we call them, which were used to powder, and they really aren't effective anymore, and we can't count on them to be here in, like, two, three years. So that's a problem that firefighters will have to deal with, too, but they won't deal with you without the support of you, because air firefighting is obviously expensive. [[15.10 hours]] There are more ways. I'm not saying we have to get new planes. Everything has its pitfalls. We can associate with some other state, we can consider, for example, the involvement of military technology, but I say, everything has its pros and cons, because firefighters have a slightly different idea of when the technique must be activated, how long before it is deployed, even the army has another idea. The military, of course, uses their machines, uses them for missions, uses them for other things, and we need to consider how to secure this aerial firefighting. What is quite certain, however, we should do this quickly, because such fires can repeat themselves to us, and it would be a shame if we were to talk again about the enormous damage, or about the injuries, not say anything worse. For this reason, I ask you to include a new point in the Programme Changes in legislation and firefighters' equipment in view of the experience of the fire in Høensko, as the first point in this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u107	Thank you. The proposal for a new point, including that it is proposed as the first point, is registered. And now Mrs Romana Fischerová can come along and Mr Robert králíček can prepare himself. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose the inclusion of a new item in the programme entitled The Impact of the Government's Inability to deal with the energy crisis on education. Energy costs are rising enormously because of our government's incompetence, and it has an impact on the youngest, our children and the new generation. For example, in higher education, energy costs are approximately CZK 1.5 billion each year from 2019. They're about a billion higher this year. The costs of such high-costing are now to be borne by universities themselves from their own reserves. There is a threat that they will have to lay off their employees, which is completely unsustainable, given that the coming of stronger years of young people can now be expected. But what I think is absolutely incredible is that due to energy prices, it is considered that in winter it would be partially switched to distance teaching. The government's inability, however, has an impact on our very youngest. Municipalities are often founders of kindergartens and primary schools, and I, as a municipal politician, am very worried about how the government is treating energy prices sharply and that there can be a crisis situation and, for example, a gas failure from Russia. Instead of the government planning to help municipalities and their schools and kindergartens, the Ministry of Industry issued a regulation limiting temperatures in classrooms. However, small children do not yet have well developed thermoregulation. For example, when first-timers in primary schools sit in benches and have no chance to run to warm up, it is hard for them, far more difficult to keep warm than for us adults. Moreover, up to now, schools and kindergartens could buy extra equipment for, for example, the surpluses they had left, after they didn't consume all their energy costs completely. For example, some primary schools could buy data projectors, kindergartens, art aids. Unfortunately, there will be no more money for that. What I find to be the most outrageous is the proposal of the Ministry of Industry - limiting temperatures in kindergartens. In its decree, the Ministry proposes that there be only 19 degrees in classrooms, playrooms and dorms in kindergartens. Now it's normally 22 degrees in such spaces. It's even worse in the washrooms. There is a current temperature of about 24 degrees and the government proposes to limit it to 19. We know children: they are always dirty, they often have to be washed. Do they have to wash in areas five degrees below their usual temperatures? And then go to sleep in the cold? That's how we treat a lot of diseases with the smallest ones we should protect. The problem will have an increased illness for children due to their cold stay, of course, also on their parents, ultimately on the state budget. Of course, the more the children get sick, the more the parents will have to stay at home with them, and the more the parents will receive the infirmary for a child that will cost them. In the end, then, the costs of children being sick will come back from the state register. So not only does the government threaten the health of our children, but it is also looking for a large cost of health care and care for sick children. I would therefore like to include this new point as the second one, entitled The Inability of a Government to deal with the energy crisis on education, so that the government can explain to us how it actually imagines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u109	Thank you, Madame. I'm just saying, you changed it from the original proposal to the first to the second point, okay? You had it in a written draft as the first point. You want a second? [[Yes.]] Second of all, I just made sure we all got it right. And we can approach Mr Robert Králíček and prepare Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u110	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I, like my colleague, am coming here with my evergreen, and this is a request for the inclusion of the Fight against Disinformation point. As you know, in February, when the conflict began in Ukraine, several disinformation sites, or websites that were labeled disinformation, were shut down. I have a bit of a feeling that the current case of Dosimeter, double standard, double sweater, Mlejnek Petr a little overshadowed this topic. And I'd like to reopen it. I think there's a lot of unfinished business. If you remember correctly, these websites, which were the subject of public debate, where words like freedom of speech and others fell, were renewed after a few months. However, the situation remains unsolved. I have tried here several times to reload this point so that we can hear from the Prime Minister's mouth what kind of government is preparing a strategy. In the course of time, the post of government agent for combating misinformation, after which there is neither sight nor hearing, was established. Mr. Klíma just disappeared from public life. Neither of us nor the Committee on Security, nor the Committee on Hybrid Threats, led by both the Committee and the Commission, have received any information on the state of the subject. I learned from the press that some kind of law prepares CTH at the Ministry of the Interior, but when, how, where, what, with whom, why, you can't see or hear about it. I would like us to have such a fundamental topic that may concern us again, because, on the one hand, the conflict in Ukraine is still not over, and I think that disinformation in terms of the energy crisis, food prices and others, and perhaps even today in the case of the appointment of the Director of Intelligence is still ongoing, and I think that we should have some legislative regulation, a law or some kind of document that would address these situations so as not to turn off the site by a private entity without the government or the intelligence services or security forces or the NÚKIB or someone who will be appointed by the government as responsible for disinformation and decision, even for the decision to shut down these sites. And I don't judge whether it was right or wrong. This situation may indeed occur that we will again have disinformation sites that will have a major impact on social events. In fact, we can say that even the upcoming municipal elections can be targeted by misinformation and other attacks. I think there's enough time to prepare the legislative regulation, and if it isn't, let's put the debate on the committee, on the House, but let's talk about it. And this subject has come to an end. That is why I would like to include the Fight against Disinformation as the eleventh point of this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u111	Thank you for the suggestion. I'm just making sure it's like the eleventh point. Okay. And now, please, Mrs Karla Maříková can approach the counter and then Mrs Marie Pošarová can prepare herself. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u112	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to propose a new point on the topic of discussion on compensation for injury after vaccination against covid-19 disease and can be as follows after those points that are proposed. On the fourth December 2020, then Minister of Health Blatný stated in the Covido-19 vaccination negotiations here in the Chamber of Deputies: "Although this is not a compulsory vaccination and it will not be a compulsory vaccination, the State will take over the guarantee for this vaccination." During 2021, the vaccination pressure was growing, until the beginning of December 2021, the Ministry of Health amended the so-called vaccination decree on the basis of which vaccination against covido-19 was to become mandatory for selected population groups. The current Minister of Health Válek canceled the amendment to the vaccination decree and with it compulsory vaccination after public and political pressure. The vaccination guarantee, which should also include compensation for injury resulting from vaccination against covid-19, was materialised in one single provision of Law No. 569/2020 Coll. with a long name that could be simplified as a law on vaccination against covid-19. During the year and quarter, when the Czech Republic is vaccinated against Covido-19, or two years, it turned out that it is unlikely that the Ministry of Health would compensate anyone at all. Paragraph 2 of Law No. 569/2020 Coll. in relation to the assessment of injury and the scope of the compensation, reference is made to Law No 116/2020 Coll., on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination, to be applied mutatis mutandis for compensation and possible injury caused by vaccination against covid-19. However, it does not provide for evidence of causal link, or only in the provisions of Section 3, provides for a presumption of causal link between injury to health and compulsory vaccination, as follows: If the injury to health as established by the implementing legislation is likely to result from the compulsory vaccination in question and this result occurs after the compulsory vaccination has been carried out at the time provided for by this Implementing Regulation, it is considered that the injury to health has been caused by compulsory vaccination. As regards liability under Section 3 of Law No. 116/2020, the law does not provide whether or not the presumption is rebuttable. Proving cause and effect of injury is very difficult, which significantly weakens the damaged person's position. The Constitutional Court was also aware of this when it provided the following wording in its provision of 12 August 2008: The essence of medicine is actually to enter the whole chain of causes and consequences, into processes that take place in the human body, and by external intervention to influence these processes, change their direction, influence and so on. The doctor's intervention thus in itself changes the natural course of things in the human body, interfering with complex relationships of causes and consequences. Even in the case of an active doctor who has chosen an effective treatment procedure, it is very difficult to determine whether this procedure was the only possible cause of harmful condition above all reasonable doubt. - The Constitutional Court thus followed up on its prior consideration contained in this resolution, namely that: a 100% demonstration of an objective causal link seems unrealistic to the Constitutional Court, as it is unattainable. - This consideration is further developed by the Constitutional Court as follows: Since the concept of causal link is not defined in any way by the law in the Czech Republic, which was also stressed by the founding court in its judgment, nothing prevents the case law of the Czech courts from reconsidering the requirement of a 100% proven causal link and accepting a more adequate and realistic interpretation of the cause of damage which would compensate for the weaker position of the victims. The patient's fundamental right to physical integrity and ultimately, as demonstrated by the case, the right to life, including through interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Civil Code relating to compensation, must be protected more strictly. In the procedure of the recommendation of the Ministry of Health when applying for compensation for injury caused by vaccination against covid-19, it is stated that a) suffering pain can be applied, b) loss of earnings or c) difficulty in social application - with such claims as well as self-harm not only to claim but also to submit with the necessary documentation. Although the court can ensure the amount of such compensation, modify it for compensation purposes, it is necessary to discuss by the Ministry of Health the fulfilment of legal certainty requirements. Therefore, please support this point because, as you know, vaccination with the fourth dose occurs. And I think for those who want to be vaccinated, it would be a kind of declaration of greater confidence that if there really were any undesirable effects, there would also be some compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u113	Thank you. I note that there has been a proposal to include a new point without any firm inclusion. [[Member Maríková from the following place.]] Like the next one. And now we can proceed with a proposal to supplement or amend the programme of Mrs Marie Pošarová. Mr. Vladimír Zlínský will be ready. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u114	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me propose to include on the agenda of this House meeting a proposal from the SPD Group of Members to amend the Income Tax Act, namely the House Press No 22. This proposal concerns an increase in tax advantages for dependent children, a specific form of tax deduction in the Czech legislation, which, as the only one so-called tax bonus so far, a situation where the taxpayer's net income may be higher than his gross income and where his tax liability has negative value and, on the contrary, receive additional money in tax compensation. The aim of this proposed regulation is a significant reduction of direct tax burden and an increase in available net income for taxpayers, namely for our working parents, for their families, family members and for children who are caring for and nourishing. This is, of course, closely linked to the efforts to increase motivation for the creation of families, especially families with more children, as well as to ensure that working parents and their families are not often forced to apply in a very humiliating and complex and often unsuccessful way for benefits of state social support or for social benefits of assistance in material distress just to ensure the basic needs of life for themselves and for their children, which is now becoming more and more recent at the time of rocket increases in energy prices and other cost of living. The long-term aim of our proposal is also to promote positive populative development of Czech society, in particular to promote long-term growth in birth rates, which is a desirable trend both from a general social point of view, but also from a macroeconomic point of view, for example in connection with maintaining or improving the quality and strengthening of our social system, especially its pension component. In other words, this is a key public interest within the meaning of the future development of the Czech society, so that, in the future, through a sufficient number of economically active citizens in working age, the financing of social transfers is ensured in the long term, in the first place of the so-called managerial social expenditure, especially those insurance-type pensions, without the need for permanent State debt, even in a broader sense, including the financing of health care, education and other important public policies. In connection with the philosophy of our proposal, I would like to mention the results of the Agency's autumn 2019 survey, which states that 33 percent of parents will not have another child solely for financial reasons, and 17 percent of parents will not do so because of inadequate housing, which is a very similar issue. According to 43 percent of the respondents to this survey, raising the so - called maternity - and parental benefits would help families the most. 18 percent of respondents would see the increase in the tax advantage on children as the biggest aid. And I will add to that the comment by the chief economist Raiffeisen Bank Hana Horská, which states - I quote: The most families with three or more children are now among low-income groups with basic or unfinished education and, on the contrary, at least among college students. So if the state wanted to motivate families to have more children, it had to target the middle class. - Which is exactly the ambition of our proposal. It is for these reasons that the most sensitive support is addressed to working parents caring for three or more children. [[15.30 hours]] We therefore propose an increase in the tax advantage for dependent children living with the taxpayer in a co-employed household, in the case of one dependent child to CZK 30 408 per year, in the case of a second dependent child to CZK 38 808 per year and in the case of a third and each dependent child to CZK 96 816 per year. The provisions of the Act that if the child or other children who are entitled to a ZTP or, if applicable, ZTP/P card increase the amount of the tax advantage to double, it remains unaffected by our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that our proposal will, on the one hand, weaken the revenue of the state budget under income tax, but will at the same time return a large part of the amount of this money to the economy in the form of increased collection of indirect taxes as a result of increased purchasing power and consumption of working families. Above all, it is a key investment in working people and in our future, the future strength, stability and perspective of our country and its people. I beg you to support the inclusion of this item in the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u115	Thank you. I'll ask you to specify the name. You have a tax advantage here. Isn't that right? [[Like the next one.]] As the next point, that's what you want. And the name of the tax advantage? [[Yes.]] And the press? . Thank you. [[22]] Thank you, Madame. And we can approach Mr Vladimír Zlínský and prepare Mr Marek Novák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u116	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we include a point in the agenda of the meeting on the topic: is our company ready for a possible blackout? I've already spoken on this subject here once before. It was part of a similar performance when a new one was proposed... or when a lot of new points were proposed to the program, it kind of fell in. It was, of course, rejected by the coalition. Of course, in my own way, I understand them, but on the other hand, we should seriously think about it, with the way the social situation is developing, if the risk of the blackout is not really increased, and if our society is prepared to do so. Just for the record, I didn't make up the materials, of course, I looked them up on the Internet. So when we think about how we're ready for this, for the blackout, people can find information about how they're supposed to act in blackout on the Internet. So you can see from this that there's no Internet on the blackout, there's no electrical device, so they're not gonna find anything, so they won't know anything and they won't know what to do. And they're gonna behave badly, and it's all gonna make things worse. I'm gonna talk about this one step at a time. Like I said, I'm not specialized in blackout, I'm a doctor, but I'm interested in the issue. I confess, you may have already noticed that I'm a bit of a disasterist. There are people who are so sunny again, so I'm kind of balancing it so the world doesn't turn to one side. Well, I'm sorry about that, but I think we all know it from our lives, that our lives aren't just sunny, but sometimes there's a crisis, and the more we're prepared for the crises, the better we can deal with them. So what's a blackout anyway? This term refers to a large failure of electricity supplies in large territory for tens of hours or days. So I'd like to add that it doesn't have to be days, it could be weeks, even months. And I wouldn't want to talk about it being years, because that would be the end of our civilization, which will hit a large number of people. The duration of the renewal of the energy supply cannot be predicted with certainty. It's obvious. It's just the way it is with the covid - we can't predict how long it will be or won't last. What are the causes of blackout? The material released by the South Moravian Rescue Corps of the South Moravian Region from the project Your way to safety speaks of the following possibilities that would lead to this: It is a disorder caused by natural influences. I think we've seen this before. It's the windstorms that are actually gonna damage the power lines. They can also cause the domino effect of causing some imbalance then in the network, and then automatic disconnecting of other parts of the distribution system and cascading spread of the failure can occur. Something similar happened massively in the United States of America. A similar impact may have large frost or long-lasting reductions. Furthermore, it is a significant surge of energy from foreign distribution systems. This is happening in our country because we transport massively electrical energy from the north of Germany, where wind and photovoltaic power plants, to the southern parts of our western neighbor. So, in the event of a sudden increase in electricity production and no compensation for consumption on the other hand, there could be a massive blackout. Then, of course, it could be a technical malfunction, some kind of transformer malfunction at the power generation sites or in the transmission system. As far as the human factor is concerned, of course, I do not want to downplay the qualifications of those people who are concerned with this, they must be truly erudite experts, eventually it happened in our media, that it was not so long ago that some such imbalance appeared throughout Europe and our experts somehow bailed it out and saved it. However, if there was a major crisis, we know it ourselves, when faced with a major crisis, that sometimes we do things that we would never do in peace, when we have the opportunity to consider it. Well, those are the kind of influences I'm not so afraid of. But now I'm going to go to what's haunting me, and that's a terrorist attack. Because, of course, I don't want to advise terrorists, but if I were a rogue terrorist, that's exactly where I'd attack, because our society can't actually work without electricity, and as I said, if the blackout lasts long enough, and I'm afraid that if it takes more than a few hours, a few days, it's gonna lead to enormous stress on our society. So here, of course, it can be approached by the fact that the terrorist can destroy some so-called hardware and possibly attack cyber-attack the management using IT technology. Now the question is, and I'm not an expert on how it could lead to the development of the blackout of a complete stop to gas supply. Of course, we have something in the storage tanks, but I'm sure I'm wondering how the experts would comment on whether there would be any such instability in the generation of electricity. And I'm going to mention something here that you might consider science fiction to be a threat to the electromagnetic impulse from the sun. You may think our sun is a calm star that gives us life, which is true, but on the other hand, there are huge events going on in the sun where the gravitational force of the sun's mass and the thermonuclear reactions that are taking place within it. And on the surface The sun manifests it by creating some sort of restlessness, some kind of protuberance and plasma jets, which means charged particles as a result of these electromagnetic storms on the surface of the sun. These electromagnetic storms are spreading in all directions into space, and if our Earth has bad luck, one such powerful blast can hit Earth with a blast of these charged particles and those charged particles are actually generating a huge magnetic field that is capable of damaging any electrical device in the affected territory of the Earth. And that area of impact is going to be huge, let's say the entire northern hemisphere. So in the entire Northern Hemisphere, all electrical devices would be destroyed, all satellites would be destroyed, which means nothing would work. So that would be a huge disaster. You're wondering, that can't happen. Unfortunately, it's already happened, and it's basically in the history of recent times. This happened in 1859 in the so-called Carringtonův event, when such a storm hit the northern hemisphere and there was serious damage. Luckily, it wasn't so electrified back then. The only thing about these devices were telegraphs, so there was serious damage to the telegraph link. But there wasn't such a problem to replace it in a short time, and the company wasn't so dependent on it at the time. [[15.40 hours]] So I've given you the options that could happen that could lead to damage to electrical wiring and blackout. What won't work? What will happen? The description of the Fire Rescue Corps is relatively optimistic, I would say, so I'll take the optimistic option and tell you what they think would happen. To overload telephone networks. I'm afraid the phone networks might not even work. Deteriorated access to integrated rescue system components. 'Cause if those nets work, they're gonna be overloaded, so these people won't be able to get anywhere, and they won't know what to do, no one's gonna tell them. The limited functioning of hospitals. Because, of course, the question is that hospitals have some generators, the question is, what condition are they in and how long will they last, how many days. Limited hygiene standards. The water won't flow, that's one thing, and the other thing that also haunts me in case I have restless sleep, and that's that we're going to accumulate biological waste. So imagine in those flats, these people are going to go to the bathroom and there's no water, there's no flushing, just the way it's going to look in those flats in a short time, what the hygiene situation is going to be. They say there's a limited possibility of buying food and water. I hope there's a trade going, but I'm afraid there's gonna be a lot of nervousness among those people who want to buy something. There may be looting and other unrest and violence. Limited fuel purchase, because, of course, the pumps are running on electricity. Limiting the possibility of heating, because if that happens, we know how it is. Every time something's supposed to happen, it's at the worst possible time, so it happens in winter. The increased risk of fires, because those with candles will try to light candles. Of course, people don't get to work and school because there will be a limited possibility of transport, because actually part of the transport is for electricity and part of it doesn't actually draw fuel. So how are we supposed to prepare for the blackout? So he happens unexpectedly, which means we can't prepare for him in any way that we have to start, because by the time it comes, it'll be too late, as I said. So people need to create enough food and water supplies. Like I said, the water's probably not gonna flow, so there's gonna be an advantage for those who have some kind of water source. In any case, people should have a supply of bottled water for at least three days. As far as food is concerned, it should be durable food, highly energy. They recommend canned food, dried meat, durable milk, cookies, chocolates, energy bars, dried fruit, nuts, sugar, honey, syrup. I'm sure it would be good if people had a working cooker at home with enough heat supply, some gas cooker, no petrol. And some things they could cook, like pasta, legumes, rice, potatoes, tea, coffee and so on. What do you do when the blackout comes? This is extremely important, because in fact, all electrical equipment should be immediately disconnected from the network, so that in case of renewal of electricity supply, there is no re-outage due to network overload. I guess these people don't know that, so I'd consider that a big problem, that when you throw it, there would be an overload and a re-entry of the blackout. I would mention here that for those people who live in the city, it's going to be a lot worse, the situation. Those who live in villages and have more food supply and have their own water and possibly have some solid fuel stove, so they will certainly last longer and more relaxed than in those cities where the real situation... the bigger the city, the more stressful the situation can be. I'm not gonna haunt this place any longer. I just wanted to suggest that probably not even us who are here, and probably citizens or most citizens aren't ready for that. I wanted to appeal to you to think about it, so that these people would get the information without stressing them significantly, and in some way, they would be prepared for it. I wasn't here to talk about the things I'm most afraid of, that's how relationships between people are going to develop in the event of such a stressful situation. I'd rather not develop this place for a long time. I just want to say, I believe that if the situation doesn't take too long, the palsy of patience and decency, and that most people will speak unitedly against the rapists and the rabbi who just want to take advantage of the situation, because I'm afraid the security forces will be overloaded and unable to intervene in all the places where this is going to happen. So thank you for your attention. Otherwise, as far as it goes, I don't have any special requests.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now it is next for Mr Marek Novák to complete or amend the agenda. Mr Martin Kukla can prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u118	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I hereby request the inclusion of an amendment to the Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances that address the ban on the sale of nicotine sachets under the age of 18. I, together with other colleagues from the club of the ANO movement, submitted this proposal in June of this year. This is House Document No 246 and this has been discussed by the government with a final neutral opinion. It's a stop sign for nicotine bags for children and teenagers, it's a fight for their health. The end of the holidays is coming and the amendment promised by the Ministry of Health is unfortunately not in sight. Please, let us not wait for the promised ones and let us discuss and approve a proposal that addresses this unhappy situation, which concerns all our children, and this proposal is on the table. Thanks to the lack of help from the current government, our citizens are in an unsolvable economic situation for them and, in addition to the fact that this government is driving them for social benefits that will not help them find a way out of the difficult economic situation, this government is still idling the growing number of young nicotine addicts, despite many experts' warnings, even though it has solutions on its desk today. It is about our children, not the children of representatives of the parties and the movement, but all our children, our and our fellow citizens. Please stop distinguishing at least on this point who made the proposal and from what group it is. This is about kids. Please, politics doesn't belong here. The so-called nicotine bags were already problematic when they were placed on the market. On the one hand, by not containing tobacco but only nicotine, they appeared to be an alternative to classic cigarettes and a way to healthier use. On the other hand - and here is a huge problem, because these bags are not covered by addictive drugs laws. Literally none. Therefore, this product is now available to all, including young people and children. [[15.50 hours]] The threat hidden in this bag is obvious. This is about creating a nicotine habit and, in extreme cases, irreversible damage to children and adolescents' health. The concentration of nicotine per nicotine bag without tobacco content is in some cases up to 20 milligrams, with a lethal dose between 30 and 60 milligrams. This is precisely the amount that, for example, according to the Clinic of Work Medicine, the General Faculty Hospital in Prague is too high. There are also cases of sudden nausea in children after ingestion of this product. The schools are also alerting us. And not just us, I think all of you. A non-refundable disposal of the health of children and adolescents is a moment that I hope none of us want. And studies have shown that the risk of irreversible damage to health by using nicotine bags is high. The first step is to make distribution difficult, but of course that is not enough. Children need to be kept away from these products effectively. We don't care about introducing pointless checks on whether or not a minor has nicotine bags in his pocket, school satchels or under his tongue. Our point is to ban their sale to minors under the age of 18. We are concerned with a clear restriction on the use of this device as long as it is fully responsible for its decisions. Therefore, once again and simply - a nicotine bag is the same evil for children and adolescents as a smoked cigarette, and it must also be treated the same way. Please, let's protect our children. And right now, when children are going to school, we really need to show that we care about their health. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the inclusion of this item on the agenda. It's about our kids. And I ask you, Madam Vice-President, it is a point concerning children who are 1. 9. They're boarding for school, so I'm asking to be listed as point 9.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u119	Thank you. I'm registering. We can now proceed to the next enrollment, and that is Mr Martin Kukla. Mr Martin Kolovratník will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u120	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to propose a new item for the meeting, and this is the first point for the points already proposed. This point will be called the Government does not address expensive energy and has turned its back on people. When we look at today's stock market, energy prices, the market collapses, goes crazy, and prices go off to pointless heights. The price of gas is somewhere around 300 euros today, which is 7,400 roughly, the price of electricity is 700 euros, which is over 17 000 crowns. A year ago, prices were about tenfold lower. Households get trapped, and instead of offering solutions and help, the government comes up with two sweaters or drowning at a much lower temperature. The austerity tariff with which the government came today is de facto a mockery. If we look at the energy prices and the growth, in a day the price will shoot even a crown on a kilowatt, and de facto the cost-saving tariff comes with the help of a much lower one. The government is putting out a fire instead of offering a solution and preventing this situation. When we look at energy prices, they don't just worry about households, they bother regions, for example. If we look at the Czech Republic, we can see that most regions do not have competitive energy. For example, Vysočina County tried to compete with energy prices on the stock market, did not compete with electricity and did not buy gas at all because no one offered it. The solution is to go to spot prices, but in that case, whoever draws up the budget doesn't know what amount to expect. And when I was on the edge and I was in charge of the economy and property, energy prices two years ago were somewhere around CZK 300 million for the Vysočina Region for all contribution organizations. At today's prices, it's somewhere around CZK 1.5 billion, but we can't even buy it yet. The situation is de facto trivial, and I think that the government should address this situation as the first point, not to address it here and wait for us to be outvoted and taken away by the health sector of 14 billion, because when we look at the health care sector, the inflation that is today is also in the health sector. I don't think that 14 billion would even satisfy inflation here. When we look at companies, they have de facto increased their costs tenfold in terms of electricity prices compared to last year. You must have all received an open letter to the Government of the Czech Republic. So it's not just the households and the people I meet every day who deal with the condition that they won't even have bills to pay because their mortgages have increased, their electricity costs will increase, and of course they'll find that they don't make that much. Of course, the situation isn't now, but she has some inertia because everyone's getting fixated. And now I will quote you from the open letter from the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic: From the mouth of government representatives and from the media we perceive the targeting of support for households, but no support for businesses. If businesses fall, people lose their jobs and even the government's compensation will not help them pay all their accounts, which can mean fatal consequences and social unrest. Indeed, many companies are currently playing for their survival in the order of months, and the government ignores this warning. Entrepreneurs consider the government's present aid to be quite inadequate. And when we look at the conclusion of the letter, I quote: We ask the Government of the Czech Republic to make public statements to companies, what measures will be taken to stabilise the business sector, or to provide clear information that entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, coughed up and words about maximum support for this segment were once again deserted phrases that make the government's programming declaration just another of a series of unnecessary described papers. Therefore, let me once again place a point, repeat it: The government does not deal with expensive energy and has turned its back on people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next up, Mr Martin Kolovratník is registered. Mr Lubomír Brož will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u122	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I wish you and your colleagues a good afternoon too. I, too, have decided to ask you to consider my proposal, i.e. a proposal to include a new item in the agenda of this meeting, which I consider to be very important. I will try to assure it to a reasonable extent and explain why I think it is important and perhaps much more important than what has been at the outset of this meeting, or is, therefore, to vote the presidential veto to defend the money to health insurance companies. I called my point "the lack of finance for the basic operation of Czech railways and motorways," i.e. the impending lack of finance for public transport. What am I basing myself on in this plea to include this new point, what am I leaning on, what are my arguments? I could return in my statement to a number of thesis and ideas that you have heard today in the performances of my colleagues. The current crisis, the energy, the attacking prices on citizens, on households, has already happened here in the House not only today, but countless times in the previous negotiating days before the summer, the link to fuel prices, what is the basic mobility of society at all. Unfortunately, all of this is happening to me in the situation that is now, and which I see so far as I see as an opposition member from the media regarding the plans of the government coalition for the budget, for the state budget for 2023, which is part of the transport department's budget. [[16.00 hours]] And please, now, non-politically, try to look, it's always good to look at the good examples abroad, what other states have done. And this is where I'm going to take Germany as an example. Neighboring Germany and so-called nine euros, a very cheap ticket for practically all trains, for public transport on those regional trains. As it happens, critics who say it is unnecessary, it is too much to waste, so in the media they were showing or fencing, they argued pictures of crowded trains, from crowded platforms, and it is true that it happened in Germany sometimes or it happened that people didn't fit into those trains somewhere, but then the lawyers also showed it, and there are a number of them in the, say, travel company or community, a number of personal experiences, blogs, articles, experiences, as somebody drove through Germany on the very 9 euros, actually a combination of individual tickets in individual regions. And that's what my whole story is about, or the request is about. That public transport, which, my friends, actually meets much more, say, indicators, demands, is ecological, is energy-efficient, very little demanding. In fact, even you, colleagues in the coalition, should meet your goals, which you are talking about wanting to be, or want to be, in which I think we agree, less energy dependent on Russia, that is, we want to consume less fuel, whether diesel or petrol. All of this is achieved by using the public transport. Very simple. When a person, a passenger, sits on a regional bus or a train, he simply drives energy and therefore fuel consumption for much less than when he drives an individual passenger car. But unfortunately, the steps that are threatening, and I'm not saying that it will end up that way, I'll be glad if it doesn't, but the steps that are threatening so far, so I'm blaming those media articles from the media. Without an increase in the budget, there is a large decline, a large reduction in the quality of public transport, and there is a risk of railway and motorway bosses - beware, even ŘSD. And really what is happening on the Czech railroad, today the board of directors dealt with it in a new composition, it was the delay on the main corridor, so it was caused by, say, the large investment activity that is now going on and on some sections is finishing, which was prepared and started just in the previous, previous year for us, during the government of the ANO movement, when it really managed to put a huge amount of money into the railways, but it threatens the exact opposite effect. And the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka also admitted during the summer months that the planned transport budget is at risk, and here I quote from the media statement, up to CZK 25 billion plus another approximately 10 billion from European sources. This is because the Operational Programme Transport 2 is ending and the Operational Programme Transport 3 has not yet started. Well, if the money goes to the right, what happens, what's the threat? There is a risk that due to lack of money, the necessary ongoing repair and maintenance work will not be carried out. There is already a risk that the Railway Administration will have to withdraw from cyclical maintenance. That's kind of maintenance, I guess you all know a little bit who you're interested in, which precedes the sticking of faults and crisis repair, but which, with some prediction, keeps the infrastructure operational regularly for relatively small money. And this blackout would be really great. In fact, because of the lack of resources, railway workers would sort of narrow down, or it would be all about operating, eliminating sudden defects that will increase, but it would no longer be about repairing, or, let's say, ensuring the operational speed of the lines and their popularity for citizens, for passengers, on some long-term, effective, but also cheap level. Well, unfortunately, it's not just about railroaders. This cutback is also feared by roadmen, the Road Directorate and highways, where it was clearly said that reducing the allocated funds would mean a major reduction in individual actions, including repairs and reconstructions. I think you understand my design or my arguments as to why I would like to include this point today. In fact, two scenarios are possible, if you would agree to attend to it. It is possible, and I will reveal publicly, I would like to say that I would like to hear it myself, that the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka has a script prepared for example, he is going to have the budget increased to be sufficient, and then it is also a public signal from the House that we really are serious about public transport, and you as a coalition are also going to help people from the inflation, from the crisis that affects them that you are going to use the instrument. Or maybe we don't have a script like that yet. Then I think it can also be a way of going win-win, where I have a draft resolution prepared, where we would call on the Minister of Finance not to underestimate the Department of Transport to provide him with sufficient resources, and it can also be an instrument for the Economic Committee, which will act on this next week on Thursday, September 1, and by such a mandate here from the plenary to be equipped with that economic committee, I think it would be a matter not political, where the opposition is shelling the coalition, but where we show it across the political spectrum, and I often say that it is not right-wing or left-wing, that we mean this together. The last argument I'm going to make is specific numbers and facts, so you can have them. To date, the transport budget, as has been set up in our government, is just over CZK 127 billion. In those opening proposals that we saw in the medium-term frames, we were really threatened. Even with the counting of European and other resources, we are somewhere around 100 billion crowns, my friends. That's a third, that's a huge slump I can't imagine. A rough estimate, when we're counting on inflation, with the price increase in construction, so we're talking about the fact that transport would need at least 140, but ideally 150 billion in next year's draft budget. This is my argument and the request that we make this point can be a relatively short negotiation, even today. I'll recapitulate my request. I referred to the Point as the Threat Lack of Finance for the Basic Operation of Czech Railways and Motorways, and I ask your consideration, first of all, as an inclusion of a new point in the House's programme, and if it were included, Madam President, please mark it, I would ask that it be included, I will honor my previous speakers, so I have suggested that it be ranked first in previous points already or so far. That is, if the House decided for any previous, this my traffic to be voted next in order. Thank you for your attention and I believe in your helpfulness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The point of imminent deficiency has been noted. And I'm gonna load up an apology. Mr Lubomír Brož may be ready, but Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes, from 15 a.m. to the end of today's day for health reasons. And therefore, Mr Lubomír Brož and then Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u124	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new point on the agenda for today's meeting, a point which I consider very important in the current situation, and it is about valorising the parental contribution in the light of the current dramatic inflation. As you all know, and it falls over and over again, prices in the Czech Republic are accompanied by a jump increase virtually every day. It is certainly not news to anyone when I mention that extreme and unprecedented price increases can be observed in energy prices, building materials, fuel, services, food. The food, of course, is the most important. We don't have to drive, we'll limit the road by car, but of course we agree that we all have to eat. In short, it makes everything, as I said, more and more expensive from one day to the next, and inflation continues to rise. According to the information, current inflation is already at 17 percent, and according to predictions, we are far from at its peak. In fact, this means that the population has become at least 17 percent poor on average. And this impact, of course, is overwhelmingly affecting families with young children, where only one parent is employed. The parental allowance currently represents a total amount of CZK 300,000 in the case of one child. It is the amount that our previous government has actually raised from the sum of CZK 200,000. It seemed to be a significant increase, it was actually a third. But we have to realize that it cannot be forgotten that this amount is the total amount that one or the other parent spends while they are on maternity leave with the child. [[16.10 hours]] In view of the absence of other systemic solutions to care for young children, the lack of nursery, children's groups, part-times and others, most of these parents are at home with the child until his two, three, maybe four years of age. Regardless of the parent's previous income before leaving for parental leave and regardless of his current standard of living, including the corresponding costs, these may be mortgages, the cost of running the household, now incredibly overpriced energy, spending on other offspring and other things, so this parent has a monthly income in the case of three years when we take them on maternity leave, so it is about CZK 8,000 a month. Again, I say, CZK 8,000 a month on parental leave. Aside from the fact that the parent could have had ten times more income before taking parental leave, which, of course, may have also set him up with the higher costs. However, he also took the money back from it, a small amount, into the state budget. But in particular, it concerns those families with average and low-income income. That's where this really is a very marked fall. In light of current inflation, it is simply not the money to live on, which is certainly what everyone will be telling me for the truth. Everyone agrees that pensions need to be validated on a regular basis. In the media, I've noticed that there should be three valorisations. That, of course, is quite all right, and I totally support it. However, the parental contribution remains somewhere on the side, as if it were not important for the current government, should not be addressed. I wonder why his monthly level is actually much lower than most pensions. So I'm wondering if the government coalition wants to make parents or those who want to start a family, tell them that actually getting a child today is a luxury, because it's going to look like it in a while, or that it's supposed to be fed by another parent, because there's no other option in this case for these families today. Minister Jurečka, according to news in the media, which I picked up sometime in the winter or spring of this year, proposed an increase in parental contribution of about 15 percent. If that's what happened, it's really commendable, and I'd compliment him on that. However, the coalition government did not approve this proposal according to my information. The government should explain its actions to its citizens and should clarify what it is planning if it has decided not to increase its parental contribution. Because her help at the moment - I'm not going to repeat it here - is simply completely and utterly vanishing in the current situation. Again, I stress that the point that I would like us to discuss here and find a solution, for example, concerns families with children when parents are on parental leave. Of course, I would like to ask Marian Jurečka, the lidovecký minister of labour and social affairs - his main activity should be to fight for the interests and protection of families with young children - what he plans to do with parental contribution. I am seriously concerned that if this item is not approved on the agenda, the answer is that the government is not going to do anything about it. I would like to ask you for your support in the name of those families who are already, when parents are on parental leave, but also those who are currently considering the acquisition of a child, perhaps their first. Because for them, this is very important and crucial. Energy, prices, inflation are growing, and maybe a lot of those young families are going to say no, we're going to wait, we're not going to have another descendant. I don't think it's in our country's best interests at all. Thank you. I propose that point as how it went down here, first of all, after further approved points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u125	Copy that. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next is Mrs Helena Válková, Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, in front of the half-empty room. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will raise my voice here too. I think that someone has to do this, too, because there is a lot of talk here, and quite legitimately, rightly, justifiedly, with many arguments, about vulnerable children, low-income families, but also about the broad one, hopefully an ever wider middle layer. I have not yet noticed the area here - that is why I have applied to this - the protection of the rights or of the rights of older people - by the elder I do not mean the euphemistically vague term that everyone avoids, sometimes about 60, but let's say 65+ - to the dignified last stage of life. The energy, but not only energy, but also price, health crisis affects this age category very much. We all know... I think that by the optics of those people who are at this stage of their lives and who do not have the privilege of restoring property, we would be in a position to have professions that will provide them with a very dignified livelihood for the rest of their lives, I mean lawyers, doctors and other experts, experts, but I mean our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who have been living in ordinary professions, and now in 70, 75, 80 years they face uncertainty, anxiety, fear of the future, and we offer them an occasional increase in their pension. [[aren't they?]] Maybe that's enough - I don't think so - in times of peace, calm. I mean peace in that sense and in terms of the energy crisis, i.e. at a time when the predictability of the prices that I will pay for what the very dignified rest of my life will allow me to do. This is not the time now, and it may be worse. I don't want to scare. I liked the speech of Minister Blažek. I'll try to be like him, too. It means not to pour oil into the fire and rather try to find a constructive solution. I just want to draw the government's attention to the fact that it has a very good one, under the leadership of Professor Bílková, I would say an excellent working government committee on the rights of older people, which has proved to be successful at the time of the pandemic, and which is certainly able to draw up a comprehensive plan that would ensure that older people of age - really depends on how we mean it, but if we say from the 65+ on the last 10, 15, 20 years - I will be optimistic - so that they can ensure warmth. Unfortunately, I have to say in hospitals in particular, because there is a combination of old age, mental state and certain minimum temperatures, it is a prerequisite for the disease that will affect them, or for the necessary surgery to be managed at all by health, so that they do not end unnecessarily prematurely here in this world just because we have not given enough attention to the problem. So, on the one hand, it is a question of the impact of the energy crisis on their lives at a time when they are particularly vulnerable not only by their age but also by their illness. Another area, however, is a number of people who deservedly want to enjoy their retirement and do not need to be able to travel in 75 years. Here I will follow up on my dear colleague, Mr Kolovratník, and from personal experience I can confirm what he said in general. In neighbouring Germany, the nine-euro ticket, a ticket, allows families with children and older people who may not even have a focus, attention, physical, somatic ability to drive a car on the four-way roads that are there, so it allows them to travel on regional trains a lot of Europe - because it is a big Germany - and enjoy it so-called while they are still healthy. On the contrary, as I have heard from him, we do not at least consider this area key, we do not have money, and it is also one of those areas that could be identified as an adjective of crisis. Thus, using the optics of the elderly, it is a very important thing for them to have something to look forward to. [[16.20 hours]] I started with the grimest - older people get sick more often, end up in hospitals more often, and we can't let them get cold in those hospitals and get cold there after the surgery. I crossed over to that area where, thanks to God, the senior is already healthy and would like to have something out of his life, traveling across the Czech Republic, Moravia, neighbouring countries and with his grandchildren, so that he could pay for the ticket. On that I want to demonstrate the extent of the view of older people. I think it would be worth it if this House, as Minister Blažek called on us indirectly, regardless of whether the so-called left, the so-called right, the coalition, the opposition, the optics of older people's lives, looked at perhaps and meaningful and feasible, or not only the theoretical solutions to the energy crisis, did not neglect their mental state, and no matter how much they did not vote for us in 20 years' time, they paid enough attention to them. Therefore, I beg you, Dear House, dear colleagues, to place a point which I have called a little inaccuracies to the rights of the elderly during the time of the energy crisis, as one of the points. Of course, I don't make an ambition to put it as a key point in front of the ones I've heard here, I think they're more substantial. So I join colleagues and colleagues who have been modest here, but strongly asked to include their points, but only after those which will then be agreed by our House as an entryable one, or as the last one after those points that have been approved before this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u127	It's obvious. Thank you, Madame. We will proceed with Ms Jana Hanzlíková's application. Mr Petr Sadovský will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u128	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask for a new point in today's programme, which is the impact of an increase in energy and fuel prices on specific population groups. He is not a whole new point, because I have mentioned him here several times and I consider him extremely important, and since it has not changed much by this time, I feel it is important to reintegrate him and actually discuss it. My colleagues and colleagues here spoke to me about the current situation, mentioned high energy prices, fuel, food, almost all commodities. They mentioned high inflation here, so I will not go further here in detail, but what I would like to mention is that the situation in the Czech Republic is really one of the worst of all neighbouring states, given that the real government of the measures it is doing is insufficient, slow and for some target groups, these very specific, almost forgetable, and the real aid is very small or none. It is mainly a group of people, people with disabilities or diseases who are forced, due to their medical condition, to be regularly transported to medical care, rehabilitation or other specialized therapies. Other vulnerable groups are persons who must permanently use special facilities to preserve life and functionality. These devices are connected to the power grid and really significantly increase the electricity consumption of these people. These are such devices that are for example to support breathing, home dialysis, or various instruments to prevent sleep apnea, etc. So these are the devices that these people really need. Moreover, and it is also important to recall, these are people who are mostly dependent on income such as disability pension, care allowance, for some it is then a contribution to mobility, and this is financial security for the disabled person himself, but also in many cases for his carer. These people have been turning to me for months. They had already turned around in February and March, with great concern. Now they are turning to the fact that the concerns have been confirmed and they are actually getting into completely unsolvable financial situations. The government, as we learn from the media, recommends saving people, taking an extra sweater or restricting car rides and the like. But that is exactly what this group of people I am talking about cannot do. Therefore, please include this item and please include it for the points already loaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u129	Yes, everything is marked. Thank you. We will now proceed to Mr Petr Sadovský's contribution and Mr Tomáš Helebrant will follow. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, what an economist, the opinion. What about the opinion, the solution. And the solution we know is that we need to do it immediately, not what the current government is doing. But I'm sure we all know that. Something this year, something in the spring. Until then, a quarter of the people will be under the supervision of the executors, the job will not be because three-quarters of the businesses will go bankrupt. For example, if a more detailed energy-saving tariff was designed to relieve expensive energy only the really needed, i.e. the poor and people of the lower middle classes, and not everyone, it would, after all, make much more sense socially and economically than what the government has presented. The government doesn't deal with price cuts, but it wants to catch up with a lot of support. And that's against logic. The help that has been presented so far is frankly not going to help anyone at all. Furthermore, VAT on basic foodstuffs must be reduced immediately from the current 15 to at least 10 per cent. Such a reduction could be permanent, which increases the likelihood that its sellers would eventually fully reflect this reduction in the final prices in the shops. The reduction of VAT to food and the related discounting of food would help socially vulnerable groups, in particular, once again. Food in the budgets of these households is the most important item in terms of the share of total expenditure, and it is much worse than in the case of wealthier and better secured households. At the same time, the government would help farmers, food farmers, by permanently reducing VAT on food, by increasing demand for their production, thereby improving sales. By reducing VAT from 15 to 10 per cent, the rate would be closer to normal practice in the European Union. The Czech Republic belongs to countries with a higher VAT rate on food within the European Union, which partly explains why in Germany, where only 7% of the VAT rate is applied to a number of foods, food is often cheaper in a simple conversion into crowns than in the Czech Republic. Does that seem normal to you? I'm sorry, not really. Middle classes and wealthy people, i.e. the remaining about 75 percent of the population, usually have a financial cushion created, thanks to the abolition of a supergross wage. The abolition of the supergross wage left more money mainly to middle class representatives and people rich, while it did not help the poor. [[16.30 hours]] And how do neighbors in Germany do that? Reduced VAT on gas, flat-rate social support, targeted social support, reduced payments to CZE, monthly fare for CZK 220, massive industrial support, support for technology companies, contribution to PHM. So what about us? We're sending signals. Unlike us across the EU, impact mitigation measures are taking place. And the result from us? Despite purchasing power, we have the fifth highest price of gas for consumers in the European Union. And in electricity? That's where we're headed. Do you remember when Temelín was showing up for our tax money that we were promised to have the cheapest electricity? And that's about it. I don't think anybody's counting on the government to go full throttle these days. But please, government, line up at least one and get a move on. I would therefore propose the inclusion of a new point as the first point, which will be called Specific Assistance to Citizens and a reduction in VAT for basic foodstuffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u131	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Helebrant will now appear, Mrs Ožanová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u132	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to propose the inclusion of one item on the agenda of today's House of Deputies. It is a point that has been the subject of many discussions in recent days between citizens across the country and on social networks, as well as, of course, between members of individual parties, and countless articles have been written in the media. The item that I propose on the agenda is called the Government's Insufficient Response to the deepening of the energy crisis and the resulting threat to households, industry, health and the operation of the state itself. This theme resonates more strongly with society than many of you might think. Especially now, when the energy prices on the stock market overcome the worst expectations even until then of the underprivileged experts, and I believe that most of you too. In the last few days, I have been approached by many people asking how it is possible that the government is reacting so slowly and inadequately. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to discuss this topic here on the House floor. The state, which is already completely unsustainable at the moment, has a direct impact on the subject of today's health meeting. They are not just households and industrial companies that are struggling with this huge increase or are just getting hit with the ending fixation. They're doctors' offices, clinics, ambulances, labs, and hospitals themselves as a whole. We, as a movement, have been proposing strong and effective measures to you since the beginning of the crisis, but you have been ignoring them all along, and you are trying to come up with proposals for energy tariffs which, in fact, will not help much. The point I propose on the agenda is therefore called Insufficient government response to the deepening of the energy crisis and resulting threats to households, industry, health and the operation of the state itself. I propose that this item be placed on the agenda first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u133	Thank you, too. Mrs Ožanová will now appear and prepare Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u134	Thank you. Madam President, the remaining colleagues and colleagues mostly from the opposition, I have such a special name, which is completely out of line with today's topics proposed on the agenda. It is called weaknesses in the management of meetings of the Chamber of Deputies. I would point out that this year after one incident, which I will subsequently describe, I asked the President of the Chamber of Deputies what are the rules for entering this Chamber. I was reliant on asking the organizational department. So I asked. That's how I learned the list of who can, can't, let me read the whole thing so I can follow it up better. The list of persons entitled to attend the meeting of the House, possibly having access to the Chamber of Deputies, is set out in Article 52 (2), (3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. According to them, the House meetings, apart from the Members, may attend: the President of the Republic, members of the Government and other persons who may attend meetings of the House by law, such as in some cases the President of the Supreme Audit Office or the Ombudsman. He's also the head of the House Office and appointed by the office staff. [[Registration of cards allowing entry to the meeting hall is maintained by the organizational department]] These are in particular the services in the foyer, the staff of the organizational department, the legislative department and the informatics department which arrange the meeting of the House. [[Staff of the Secretariat, the House Committees and the Department of the House Office]] Other persons may also attend meetings of the House if the House agrees. They can even be given a word. Persons not mentioned above have access to the Chamber only by express permission of the President of the House, such as the Security Service of the Police of the Czech Republic accompanying the President of the Republic. - So the head of the Chamber of Deputies' Office, Mgr So Martin Plíšek answered me, so I learned who is allowed in this hall. Now, I'll tell you why I even asked such a question. 15. 6. was a very interesting meeting of the House. We had a video conversation with the president of another state, with the president of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of this video conversation, I sat in my seat, everyone was present, they were classic employees who were supposed to be here, and there was a girl jumping around in a green dress who was always filming and taking pictures. I was wondering, why is it bothering me when I'm listening to a speech? And it didn't stop. She left after a while, but it was very disturbing, especially in the speech of the President of another state and, of course, our constitutional officials, including the President of the House. So I started to wonder who it was. Please, I didn't want ID. It's possible, I don't know if that's true, that she was perhaps President Pekarová's assistant. However, at the time he spoke to us and when we had a video conversation with Mr. President of Ukraine, she was running the House of President of the House. I'm asking, why didn't she ban this person who was disturbing us from the hearing? There can't even be cops here unless there's an incident, unless there's an ex-colleague, and he's pulling microphones off the counter, but suddenly somebody's interfering with your actions by being all tense and waiting for what's going to happen, we've all been waiting, it's just being state-of-the-art, it's between two states, and there's someone running around, and they're always disturbing you. It is true that coalition MPs were not disturbed, only we were disturbed. However, error, and I think that is a significant error, I see to Mrs Pekarová that she did not report the person concerned. This morning during the meeting - of course there is noise in the House - she correctly addressed all the coalition, opposition, to keep us quiet so that the person speaking on the microphone could be heard. Why didn't she do that when we had a video conversation with the president of Ukraine, I really don't know. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I am asking for the inclusion of a point called weaknesses in the management of the Chamber of Deputies. I would just like to add that we all have full mouth support here, but we cannot maintain dignity in this Chamber, and I think that is very wrong and completely inappropriate. Now might be a funny moment. When I wrote my application, I wrote that I'm proposing a fixed score for today at 11 o'clock. I don't think we're gonna make it. So, given the fact that the coalition has pushed through that it is both day and Saturday, I believe that it is simply to place this point at 11 o'clock tomorrow, on Saturday, in the morning, please. I don't mean tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u135	Yes, I'm recording. You suggested we put the point on tomorrow, Saturday, 11 o'clock, tight. Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka will now appear and prepare Mr Karel Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, each of us is likely to receive a number of e-mails relating to the energy-efficient tariff. Each of us receives a number of e-mails from citizens, how it should address the price of energy in the future. And I'll read for all of them one that came into my mailbox, maybe to you, too. Hello, I'd like to ask you if we'll be subject to an austerity tariff. We are a common five-member household from Prague and we have been using an older electric car to transport the city next to public transport for several years. We therefore have a D27d tariff, but we are drowning next to electricity, heating water and cooking on gas. In some comments the tariff mentions, in others it does not. I'm asking so much for clarification. If we didn't get support from the state, we could have existential problems, because since last autumn, energy reserves have increased to three times and are still growing. That is why I hope that there will be a possibility for us. And if you don't, I believe you'll make sure you do something about it. We can't be punished for caring about the environment. We are ordinary citizens, we work our whole lives honestly, we pay taxes and we take care of the good upbringing, decency and quality education of our children as a future generation. Changing the fare to another is also not profitable for us, as we would again have much higher electricity costs thanks to the charging of the car. And we don't have any money to trade cars for any other gas or diesel. Thank you very much for your answer and I have faith that you will fight for us. Thank you so much in advance. Here on this e-mail, it's very clear when we look at the communication of this government. I've got a whole bunch of them. They are proof not only for citizens confused by the use of this government, but mainly by the trivial communication, where citizens learn confusing information that often goes against each other. So I chose three from a number of these statements, and I did not include various contradictory or scandalous statements in the case of Mlejnek, Dosimeter and so on concerning the Mayors and the independent and their affairs. The government says that it will communicate clearly and purposefully, that it will only tell citizens what it will clearly agree to so that it does not have to change its communication. So let's start with, for example, the first example - five thousand one-off child allowance. On Wednesday, after the government meeting, the government will speak at a press conference, Minister Jurečka will say that he will give a 500-thousand one-off contribution to all citizens who have a million gross, everyone will ask: really rude, isn't it neat? No, we agreed that it was rude, it was the perfect idea for today's government meeting to run on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and then on Saturday, Minister Stanjura, Minister of Finance, commented here the words of Minister Jurečka, who then apologized for them, because everyone calculated that it would be a package during those two days. So, of course, they narrowed the $5,000 allowance to a million net. A living allowance. So here's the last of the case, of course. Prime Minister Fiala will perform at a press conference where he will say that he will pay everyone over 30% or 35 percent of the cost of living in Prague, on social networks avalanche of all those who want to buy houses in Hanspaulce, in Vinohrady, in the city centre of Ostrava, or I see a colleague here in Frenštáta under Radhoště, and that they will pay them extra, of course, if they rent it or buy it, all these costs. But of course the confused communication failed to deliver, and Prime Minister Fiala was either misinformed by his press department, or simply doesn't know it, and he cannot know everything, it is clear that there are normative costs, which, of course, in the context of the housing allowance ceiling those prices. Third, the energy package. That's fantastic communication here in this government. We've been discussing the energy package since March. We have April, May, June, coming in July, they're all set for the energy package. But, of course, no one knows anything about him because he's coming to the table, on the table of the Economic Committee. He meets at 9 a.m., takes an hour's break to get to know him, then at 11 p.m., the Chamber of Deputies sat down and started approving him at first reading, and between these two hours five amendments came up. This is a disgrace to this government! I mean, I heard it this week when Minister Síkela said that it was prepared by fifty to seventy experts, all those three months working on the energy package, they were all there, including distributors, so then they introduced it to us so that they simply gave it to us here with these great experts on the table, and it was, of course, and I still think it's a great shame. Because we don't know yet, and the lady here in this e-mail is quite clear about how much the energy package will actually bring to the citizens' pockets. It's 2,000 by the end of the year, then it's going to be 5,000 by the end of the year, it's going to be 16,000, sometimes it's going to be 30, now it's going to be 17 and a half. But we still don't really know how it's gonna be. And I'm not talking about the heat, of course. Another fantastic communication from the Ministry of Industry and Trade is from the point of view of their decrees and, of course, the scandalous control, when they told us on their official twitter that they would go to almost households and that they would leave it all to the owners of units of flats, of course on their chairman or elected representatives of private housing owners. Let us leave this aside, of course the government has already demented other things in its great and fantastic communication in order to show us the decree of recommended temperatures, of course because we have to save in various, for example, health establishments or social services. So, for example, medical centers. We have Minister Válek here, so the office is 20 degrees, waiting rooms, corridors, toilet 18 degrees. In hospitals rooms for the sick 20 degrees, exam rooms, prep rooms 20 degrees, bathrooms in my opinion scandalous - scandalous - 20 degrees, because, of course, as everyone knows, it is not possible, for example, to bathe in 37-degree water on a bathing bed, let's say a senior or someone who is sick, where we bathe him for ten minutes so that he has a start in a 20-degree bathroom, for example - I don't know what. Pneumonia, flu of any other disease? That's not possible. And all the paramedics will tell you that probably this MIT decree that someone fell on their head because it's completely unrealistic and it's not possible for her to have a bathroom in a hospital facility and a senior home of 20 degrees. What I'm only sorry about, and of course it falls on the head of Minister Válek and Minister Jurečka, that they haven't heard from them yet, they haven't picked up and said: "Dear Minister Síkela, it's really stupid, we can't have 20 degrees of Celsius in the bathrooms in hospitals, it's just not possible for us to bathe sick people and old people there on the beds, and maybe somehow predict a disease. I'm afraid you haven't heard from us, Minister Válek. You did? [[He's turning to the government benches for Secretary War.]] I didn't. [[Secretary Wark off the microphone: I can't comment.]] Well, thank you very much. O.R. 20 degrees, hallway, hallway, toilet, staircase 18 degrees. That means we're gonna take the senior from the 20-degree bathroom down the 18-degree corridor to his hospital room, which is also 20 degrees. I think the MIT really went crazy, and if no one's dementing it, so are all the ministries that are responsible. [[16.50 hours]] The home of pensioners and social facilities are exactly the same: bathrooms of 20 degrees, toilet 18, other rooms such as hallways and hallways, 15 degrees, heated stairs are called, so they will be at 10 degrees. I will not continue to do this here, of course, because I believe and I am very glad that even from the coalition of the government, Mr Navrátil, Deputy of our Governor Moravian-Silesian Region Ivo Vondrák, who said that in no way in the Moravian-Silesian Region these facilities, and we have 220 contributions, which belong to the Moravian-Silesian Region, will not follow this. Because it's simply nonsense, and it's not just factual nonsense. [[Secretary of the War in the government bench knocks on his forehead.]] That's right, Mr. War, it's nonsense. It is mostly nonsense to communicate with this government, and I am glad that Minister Válek is knocking on his head, which is probably a signal to Minister Síkel that it is not actually possible for him to mean it. So why isn't this government's communication working? Because he doesn't have any recipes, he doesn't have any visions, he simply doesn't know what to do. We can see all that from the I.D.'s e-mail that sent it to us. That is why I am pleased that this government has taken into account, for example, the proposal of the YES movement, which has been in the House for several months and addresses, for example, the remission of the renewable energy charge. That's our proposal, so it's great that the government is considering it. Pirates suggested raising their parents. They haven't done anything yet, we don't really have it in the system, but we have it because of the YES movement, which has already increased and modified parenting. We also have a proposal for a repeat of a 500-thousand one-off contribution, which was not commented by Minister Jurečka when he said that it is possible that we will repeat this post. And, of course, I speak for all the disabled that this government has successfully forgotten. It is a contribution to mobility and its increase, which at this time this government does not have at all as a law not only in eKLEP, that is, in the system of laws. He doesn't have it on the government, of course. He may have it written somewhere, but the YES movement already has it written, it's written in the system. This government gave a negative opinion on him, so that the mobility contribution from 550 crowns would not increase, for example, to our proposed 2,000, but it could be 1,500, 1,000, whatever, let's make a deal. We can put in an amendment, but surely the 550 crowns are very shameful. So I could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Gradually, this government is inclined to do so, but unfortunately, we see that it is too late. And most importantly, we see that it's just not enough and that it's not enough. And I'm going back to that I.D.'s e-mail, where she, too, thinks this government is messy and confused not only in her communication, but also in what she's just doing. Because the government doesn't know what the right hand does, what the left hand does. Perhaps it will also come to our proposal for a ceiling on energy prices. Of course, experts already recommend it. We see it everywhere else in Europe. Our companies will not be competitive in the future. We simply need to take some simple measures instead of sacking and chasing people to the Labor Office for social benefits and social benefits. So I very much ask Madam President to take my point. I would like it to be as a second point after all the points that have been taken on the House's agenda, with the title of the Decrees of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the social and energy non-help of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll just make sure. The item is therefore the MIT decrees and the social and energy non-help of this government. And you want to put it as the second point after all the approved points. Okay, thank you. And now, Mr Rais will appear and Mr Síla will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u138	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, Colleagues and Colleagues, I would like to have a discussion in the agenda of the meeting on the increase in energy costs and their impact on the operation of universities, and then, eventually, a little more generalized. čili I propose essentially to add a new point in this sense. Let me comment on the ever-increasing energy costs affecting the operation of Czech universities, but also on other non-production sector institutions such as the mentioned hospitals. Multiple increases in electricity, gas, heat, other sources, including cancellation of discounts on student fare, have a very negative effect on the operation and normal operation of universities. The current estimate of the increase in university operating costs only in the field of energy is around number 4, that is, if today's costs range to about CZK 1.5 billion per year, then we must expect an increase of CZK 8 billion. And these operating costs are, and will be, so great that universities can no longer tighten this up and that it requires the help of the state. While universities want to cover part of the costs from reserve funds, they are limited. When using provisions to cover the basic operation of the University, these funds would be exhausted by about the turn of the year, and then the theoretical possibility is considered that an online teaching would be introduced, with the practical part of the teaching being carried out at the end of the summer semester. This, of course, will bring clear problems. In winter, online theory will be taught and in summer there will be practice, when part of theoretical knowledge will have to be repeated, because it is likely that it will be forgotten, and then it can be the practice. But that's beyond the scope of this general contribution. It is already a sort of reconciliation with a situation where the problem will not be solved by the state, but by universities. And I think that's a bad solution. It's not just the universities. It is a whole segment of the non-production sphere, as I mentioned, which means secondary schools, elementary schools, hospitals, state authorities and so on. I think that we should address in detail the problem that I would call essentially: how will the government ensure that non-production organisations and, in particular, universities cover increased energy costs and the operation of these institutions? That's what I'd call a point. Another problem that's part of the cost increase here is basically pay, which, it's kind of a traditional problem that I'm talking about, and where the government essentially advertises that college and college education and teachers have priority, so the reality is a little bit different. So what's the reality? Today's situation is that a teacher, an assistant or an assistant at a university has on average a lower salary than the average salary of a teacher at a high school. That's just real. And I think that we should also deal with this area, namely the salaries of teachers and non-teachers, particularly in universities. And in this context, I would consider it appropriate for us to address the issue of fulfilling the government's programming declaration in terms of increasing the wages of pedagogical workers. This issue requires a separate and professional discussion, and therefore I would like to refer to the point that I would refer to as How will the government ensure that non-production organisations and, in particular, universities cover increased energy costs and the operation of these institutions?, so I would like to place this item on the agenda as the last item on the points that have been discussed so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If you don't mind me asking you to fill in if you can follow me after. Thank you. And now, Mr Jan Síla will appear and Mr Petr Vrána will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u140	Thank you for the floor. As the next evergreen, I would like to propose a repeatedly constitutional law on a national referendum. This law is currently gaining momentum, because the state of this state's economy and rising inflation are forcing us to take fundamental measures so that people finally know that the government is ruling. [[17,00 hours]] Liberal democracy has put us in a phase where the ruling cartel of five parties, some of the self-chosen, does not rule in favour of the population of this state. It does not effectively address current inflation, accompanied by the preciousness of all fundamental needs of life. Given the current figures in the House - one hundred and eighty - there's no way to call off the government. Therefore, the only way to get rid of this government is to withdraw it by a referendum. The government also fundamentally turns the health round to the detriment of patients and health professionals. The state budget for 2022 wants to improve by removing CZK 14 billion from the state insurance company. The government of the people, as mistakenly called democracy, is actually dimarchos in ancient Greek (?). Democracy is the power or power of the people in ancient Greek. As we see ourselves today and daily, it is not at all important who formally rules in society, but who has real power. At the same time, rich elites with real power have a higher degree of political rights and freedoms. The democracies will be named by their own adjectives, which they can use right now. Let it be social democracy, folk democracy, which is pleonasmus, liberal democracy, Christian democracy, which is a contradiction. I would like to stop more now at the ruling liberal democracy. Following revolutions in America and the Great French, modern liberal democracies are formed during the 19th century, characterized by new features: liberating people from submission to feudal aristocracy, the principles of universal electoral law, the definition of today's form of representative democracy. And that's what's important. Liberal democracy is holed up in the principles of political pluralism: equality before the law, petition law, the right to a fair trial, other civil human rights and freedoms, and so-called civil society. In fact, it is based on classical liberalism with three fundamental rights: life, freedom, but mainly protection of private property. These rights are supposedly given by boh. It excludes positive rights as a variety of demands, such as education, health care, social security and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, Ancient Greece is often referred to as an example of true democracy. Athens in the days of Perikl had about 315,000 inhabitants, with only 60,000 men of a certain age participating in government, who had equal rights and were not allowed to work. The conditions for the functioning of this democracy included time to deal with things public. Time ensured the existence of slaves in so-called democracy. Secondly, it is a different understanding of freedom. They understood freedom as collective freedom, unlike the current promotion of individual freedom. The decision-makers were expelled from living beyond the city line, foreigners, convicts, debtors, just anyone who harms the city law. Thirdly, the third condition was the high education of citizens, especially in the field of governance, rhetoric, and they had to enjoy personal integrity. In the 5th century B.C.E., political powers were gradually divided between the Council of 500, the People's Assembly, advisory courts and, above all, ostracism. Ostracism served to protect democracy, in which citizens decided whether any demagogues threatened democracy. Ostracism worked so that everyone at the assembly got a shred of clay vessels, a so-called ostracism, on which he wrote the name of a politician, which should be removed. The guy who got the most ostracists was out of town for ten years. But let's go back to the present. The current definition of democracy is a form of government in which a minority is subject to the majority and citizens' freedom and equality is recognised. And now let us discuss the real state of democracy today in our country, which has full mouths of politicians not only in our country but also in the whole Euro-Atlantic civilization. If this definition really applies in so-called democratic states, what would prevent most people from voting higher taxes on the rich and not investing in health, education, security and so on? Real democracy requires freedom. That is why it works so that the rich can hire campaign funds and through demagogy get to power, so there is a great advantage to the wealthier politicians, which causes a strongly oligarchic government of related entrepreneurs. The possession of the mass media is in the hands of the oligarchs. Czech so-called public media, mainly the Czech Republic, are managed from Brussels. So where are the basic conditions of democracy in our country? In modern times, democracy is defined by two basic theories. It's classic liberal Milla theory and Schumpeter's competitive theory of democracy. The first is based on the premise of the delegation and the transfer of electoral tasks to elected representatives, and the second more reflects the real practice today. A politician chooses political parties and has no influence on them after the elections. While the first theory rather reflects the concept of real democratic values, where most inhabitants have the opportunity to influence the action in the village, the second describes more precisely the actual practice in our country. So it is not democratic states, but states with so-called representative democracies, where the word democracy is in the name only to confuse less scientific citizens. Here it is appropriate to stress the undisputable truth. In a world of fundamental economic imbalances and the concentration of power in the hands of few people, there is no place for a real democracy, because a rich minority always has real power in every and so-called democratic society. That is why the SPD advocates the enforcement of elements of direct democracy, which will enable the majority of the shortcomings of indirect representative democracy, whose current form has nothing to do with real democracy. It is only pseudodemocracy, which the elites hypocritically use as fig leaf to conceal the real state of the company's management solely for the benefit of the elite. To revive, let us repeat the main elements of direct democracy. They are positive instruments: citizens' initiative, folk initiative, plebiscite and referendum. The negative instrument is the appeal of the Member, the so-called imperative mandate. In doing so, we could remember Ostracism from ancient Greece, which is almost no longer in use today, but the right to appeal to politics has led, for example, to the development of democracy in Switzerland, so that it is no longer necessary to use this right, because there is a sword of Damoklův over every dishonest politician. With this ass bridge, we are coming a short way to a referendum. The general referendum is in the Constitution. It is a bill that is submitted to citizens for consideration. It can be binding, non-binding, compulsory, optional, optional, ratification and so on. Advantages and disadvantages of referendum. With a sufficiently large and well-chosen sample, so-called average people are more successful in estimates than a small group of experts. This concerns, above all, the most complex decision-making cases. Second, people make decisions not only on the basis of information but also their life experiences. Thirdly, on the other hand, the advantage of expert decision-making can be to study the issue well. However, the possibility of corrupting these experts is a major disadvantage. Individual experts may have a diametrically different view of solving the same problem. That's another negative. Lobbists are usually well funded, and every expert has a price. If there is no proper explanation of the problem in the mass media, people are manipulated and usually vote against their interests, as we see it regularly in the elections. Politics is always about someone's interests, and public interest is in last place. [[17.10 hours]] The questions of the referendum must be well formulated; the intention of the referendum is easier to eliminate the issue at hand. There is no general referendum law in the Czech Republic, although it has been in the Constitution since 1993, but political representations have failed to agree on its parameters since the 1990s. A national referendum was held in the Czech Republic only on accession to the European Union and a special ad hoc constitutional law was passed for it. There is only a local referendum law in the Czech Republic. The reference, direct choice and withdrawal of politicians can be addressed by the main deficits of indirect democracy. Therefore, the SPD is once again promoting an amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic in order to strengthen the elements of direct democracy in our political system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u141	Yes. So the national referendum law is a proposal for a new item with some kind of inclusion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u142	Four. Point four.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u143	Thank you, too, and Mr Vrána will now appear, Mr Berkovec will be prepared, and then Mrs Štefanová, and then you, Mr Jr., would come up with your turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u144	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose another point for discussion, and that point is called Village problems in connection with the abolition of free zones. The point I want to place is not only current, but reflects the deteriorating social climate in some of our municipalities. As you know, the Constitutional Court passed the proposal of the Senator Group and annulled Section 33 (1) of the Constitutional Court. 9 and Article 33d of Law No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress. From 2017 until the repeal of these provisions, the municipality in whose territory there were sites where there were adverse events to an increased extent could ask the municipal authority to issue measures of a general nature declaring an area with an increased incidence of social adverse events, the so-called pay-free zone. Any new residents of these free-of-charge zones who would otherwise be entitled to a housing supplement did not receive this benefit in material distress. However, the Constitutional Court found this legislation discriminatory, withdrawing the right to ensure a minimum standard of basic living conditions, and thus attacking human dignity. According to the Constitutional Court, this regulation does not allow for an individualised distinction between the real origins of the socially undesirable phenomena and the other populations that are victims of these phenomena. According to the Constitutional Court, the contested provisions of the Law on aid in material distress are an unconstitutional intervention in the right to ensure basic living conditions in the area of housing. It is only a non-systemic response without lasting effects on the long-term unsatisfactory problem of social exclusion, notes the Constitutional Court. And why am I opening this subject now? We often discuss the problems of the capital here, but I would also like to draw attention to the big problem of smaller cities such as Přerov, and I know that this does not just affect Přerov, but many other cities in our country. The abolition of the toll-free zones is likely to hit the lives of the proper citizens of the city again. Přerov was one of the first cities to make use of this tool to combat poverty in 2017. In 2017 there were 18 hostels and in them almost 800 accommodated. The number of residential hotels decreased to 8 persons and 274 persons by the gradual announcement of the free-of-charge zones, so the benefit of this legislation was indisputable. I am very concerned that we should not get back before 2017, when the poverty business was booming in the city, the city was becoming a mess, crime was increasing, and with this the citizens' complaints. Some citizens are already selling their apartments and moving to nearby municipalities, as they are once again afraid of worsening the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the town hall no longer has this instrument, and I would therefore like to call for a solution. I believe that this problem is plagued by the citizens and representatives of many cities. It is our duty to find a solution to protect the proper citizens of the city from undesirable phenomena, such as the increase of unadaptable citizens in cities, especially in the city centre. I propose to the Chamber of Deputies that we deal properly with this issue at the next point proposed, so I would like to propose that we include this point as the last of the points currently included.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u145	Yes, thank you. Mr Stanislav Berkovec will now appear and Mrs Štefanová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u146	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant evening. Thank you in advance for your precious attention. Allow me to justify the inclusion of a new item on the agenda of the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic entitled The impact of austerity on the most vulnerable groups of the population. There have already been several suggestions on this subject, so I think it will be a good follow-up. For example, the point proposed by our precious colleague, esteemed colleague Aleš Juchelka, and others. I consider these groups mainly patients in hospitals, seniors, clients of social facilities, schools and kindergartens as well as a group of disabled people. Now let me move some 16 days back to 10 August this year to the part of the statement issued by the Department of Communications of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The Ministry of Industry and Trade proposes a new decree laying down specific rules for heating and the supply of hot water. The new rules would enter into force in the event of a declaration of prevention of an emergency or an emergency in the heating sector. Now, let me quote part of the Minister of Industry and Trade's reaction. It's another measure I call airbags. Theymít in your car. You hope you never have to use them, but when you need them, you're glad you got them, said the Minister of Industry and Trade. Now I'm going to abstract from saying that the imaginary car already crashed, the airbags weren't there, and I'm not going to argue about who was driving, whether he was driving well, whether he was tracking traffic signs and the situation on the road. What happens if this decree starts to apply? I think it will have a devastating impact on everyone, and even more for those endangered target groups of our fellow citizens and the operation of certain types of facilities - hospitals, schools, retirement homes. Let me take a closer look at the temperature according to the standards. Internal calculation temperatures are currently defined according to the state standard ČSN EN 12831 and recommended relative humidity of air according to ČSN 060210. Just a few examples of those standards that are defined in this state standard and those proposed temperatures have already been discussed by Mr Aleš Juchelka. [[17.20 hours]] So the rooms for the sick 20 degrees designed from 22 degrees. Exam rooms, prep rooms from 24 degrees Celsius to 20, bathrooms from 24 to 20 degrees and operating rooms, and I really consider this a very dangerous proposal, from 25 degrees to 20. Schools and kindergartens, classrooms, dining rooms from 20 to 19, dressing rooms, changing rooms from 20 to 18 degrees Celsius. Kindergartens, classrooms, playrooms and lounges from 22 to 19 degrees, washrooms for children and toilets from 24 to 19 degrees. Cribs in case of classrooms, halls and lounges from 22 to 20 degrees, dressing rooms from 20 to 18 and washrooms for children and toilets from 24 degrees Celsius to 20. And retirement homes, bathrooms of 24 degrees, that's the original standard, proposed 20 degrees and toilets from 20 to 18. Interestingly, I haven't found a prison area and the Prison Administration of the Czech Republic anywhere. So maybe it's a solution for some retired people. Oh, no, seriously, it's too serious a thing I don't want to joke about. And, of course, it's not just heating, it's also air conditioning in the summer, which, in the case of operating rooms, is the basic condition of the operation. Recently, some time ago, we were also discussing this in the dental office here in the Chamber of Deputies, where there was no air conditioning, in the summer some operations could not be done there. And there's still hot water in the game, and in this context, I'd like to remind you of one of the other risks to legionella bacteria from the family of pathogenic bacteria. I'm not an expert, so I don't want to get on thin ice, it's mostly Legionella pneumophila. And as prevention, it is recommended, among other things, in addition to cleaning pipes, turning standing water, disinfection also heating at least 60 degrees Celsius. So we're back to energy prices. And one more example of the 23rd March of this year, when the Prague City Hygienic Station carried out a check at the exchanger station in Prague 9 and based on a hot water sample found that this sample failed to comply with the hygiene limit. I was still talking about the disabled, even though I've been a journalist my whole active life, so it's for me, my whole active life, a topic, whether I was a journalist or a representative, or as a member of the Rotary Club Prague, and it was a variety of events where we tried to help, which also made them visible. Our friend Jirka Jiroudek always said that it wasn't some headless sleigh that needed to be locked up, but that it was necessary to communicate with people, to show that they could do something. So he drove into Snezka in a wheelchair, or we accompanied him in an event when he went around Lake Bodam. Or another friend of mine, Honza Kašpar, who I helped organize a handicap. I also helped with the development of cart for the disabled in Loštice Engineering, even with legislation, it was managed to get there. I consulted with the esteemed Senator Filipiová at the time. Unfortunately, the cart stopped producing because it was too expensive. And I am currently helping with the development of an electric cart for a Czech company for disabled people, and the reason is also related to energy prices. First of all, it's an electric cart, so the drive and the traffic will be cheaper, even the purchase price will be cheaper. Because, Mr. Aleš Juchelka here was talking about it, actually, the mobility allowance for these disabled people is somewhere in the dark. Although the Department of Communication of the Ministry of Industry and Trade talked about consulting experts in the drafting of this decree, that it respects the standards of the World Health Organization, I believe that this point and this standard should be seriously subjected to a democratic and qualified debate in plenary at the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament as soon as possible. I therefore propose the inclusion of this point as the point proposed by Mr Aleš Juchelka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, Mrs Iveta Štefanová will come forward, Mr Jan Síla will be prepared, then Milan Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u148	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also present my proposal to include a new item in the agenda for this meeting. Inflation and expensiveness have an inevitable impact on the functioning of our health care system. Here in the Chamber of Deputies, we should talk about how to solve the problems of health establishments, which, thanks to rising prices, are getting into big problems, rather than reducing payments for state insured people and taking money from the resort, which is getting more and more into financial trouble. Therefore, I would like to propose a new item on the agenda, a point entitled Impact of Inflation and Acceleration on the operation of health establishments. Thanks to rising fuel, energy prices and, of course, with inflation, the cost of ensuring the operation of hospitals and other health facilities is increasing. The prices of medical supplies are rising. Drug prices are rising. However, they are subject to limited consumption times and cannot be bought into stocks. Hospitals don't even have the ability to supply electricity or gas in advance. The situation is getting worse almost every day. By now, hospitals have more than twice as much cost than last year due to inflation and the increase in traffic. Payment for care provided is no longer enough to cover these costs. Some hospitals are already down. This is a serious and most up-to-date issue just at a time when a new payment decree is being prepared, and there is an increasing cost of health facilities that needs to be reflected. The monetary decree for 2022 only envisaged a nine percent increase, so many health establishments are already in a significant deficit today. The increase in electricity costs in hospitals is as high as 100%. The total cost of operating health establishments is higher than 200 per cent of last year's costs. Hospitals are forced to limit investment, postpone purchases of new equipment and other, other expenses that can only be postponed. However, this is infamous for slowing down the modernization of hospitals and ambulances, which in itself means more expensive operation, and in addition, with an increase in costs, the maintenance of the basic operation of many health establishments will be at risk. The increase in costs for the operation of Czech health care directly threatens the availability of health care in the Czech Republic. The new payment decree must reflect the increasing financial needs of health care. This will mean much more costs for health insurance companies to pay for health care. And that is why this debate should take precedence over the proposal to reduce payments for state insured persons. Therefore, I propose that we discuss this point at today's meeting as item number one. Please support this point and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u149	Thank you, Madame. And now, Mr Síla will appear, Mr Brázdil will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u150	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me once again to comment on the current situation that shakes people in a disastrous way in our society, who turn to me and ask what to do when they have high energy bills. I think that this is a problem that we should be the first to solve and try to just find a way to do it. The point I called which I would like to place is inflation, the energy crisis, the upheaval and the collapse of the economy. Now the price of electricity is about EUR 700 per megawatt hour and the gas is EUR 300 per megawatt hour. That's the fact that practically the cost of all the basic needs of life depends on it. Now I'm not talking about lack of gas and lack of energy for the various businesses that are going to collapse if they don't... Or the prices will go up. I'm talking about people who can't pay their bills. [[17.30 hours]] Inflation cannot be identified with some kind of expensive or expensive. Inflation is a systemic macroeconomic phenomenon given that there is a large amount of money in circulation that does not correspond to the value of the goods and services produced. The level of inflation is a matter of choice, not a kind of seeming predestinity. Inflation is to be controlled by the central bank. That's her constitutional mandate. In a broader sense, the economic policy of the State has two components, monetary monetary monetary and budgetary fiscal. Monetary, for which the central bank is responsible, whose task is to monitor monetary developments, i.e. inflation, and to maintain inflation through monetary restrictions. The government can support the austerity of its fiscal policy through monetary restrictions, which means not managing on debt. Lapidally speaking, a higher government debt deficit means that the Czech National Bank will have to raise interest rates and stick to them until inflation is contained. Ergo can only be reduced by stopping or significantly reducing the rate of growth of money in circulation, the so-called monetary restriction. At the same time, the government's austerity fiscal policy. What is happening today can be called the largest real estate redistribution in progress since 1989. Most inflation is imported from abroad. We cannot influence energy, oil, and material prices, which are determined in world markets. It's a very tense job market. The Czech Republic has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the world, but the Czech National Bank is responsible for the overheated labour market, which spent over CZK 2 trillion in so-called interventions from 2013 to 2017, for which it purchased EUR 70 billion. I would like to mention the other substance of current inflation, not just the imported one. The aim of the bank was to weaken the koruna and help the collapsing euro, and thus threatening deflation in the European Union, the currency exchange rate was 25.50 per euro before the procedure, and the Czech National Bank decided to keep it at CZK 27 per euro. That's why the 70 billion bought. Interventions have made our Republic particularly cheap for German companies. Demand for Czech cheap labor is huge. This is what different sectors, such as the hospitality and catering sectors, are then confronted with, where people are desperately lacking, because they prefer to work to be safe in the assembly room or in the state administration. Inflation reduces people's purchasing power. He buys less with his money. Thanks to interventions, however, more than 2 trillion new artificial crowns have been created, and speculators, banks, financial institutions and funds have surplus. But there's no interest in them. The Czech National Bank released the genie from the bottle by intervention, and now it will be hard to catch it back. Inflation is significantly greater than the remuneration of most of the available and reasonable banking products. Artificially created money often ended up in real estate and drove their price to where they are now. Unfortunately, inflation is mainly caused by the so-called hardworking bees, savers who have their honey not in honeycombs in hives, but money in banks on fixed deposits and savings accounts. The Čech have approximately 5 trillion crowns on short-term deposits. When inflation is 10 per cent a year, which is now 17 per cent, more than half of their savings will disappear in five years. Inflation from savers' accounts eats about half a trillion crowns a year, so small savers pay a feast to big debtors. Well, big guys so-called hands on me because they took cheap money, a lot of money, a lot of debt. Cheap debt. By doing so, they financed their purchases mainly of companies and real estate, anything that's material. Now interest is paid about 2-3 per cent per year and inflation is 17 per cent and will increase. High inflation clears cheap debts covered by material investment. Let me just give you two examples for illustration. According to the consolidated annual report it was 31. 12. 2019 assets J&T Group 11,1 billion euros. Of this, the group's liabilities, or debt, amounted to EUR 9.3 billion. Next. According to the consolidated annual report at 31. 12. 2020 PPF Group's assets amounted to EUR 39.7 billion, of which foreign sources, debt, were EUR 31.1 billion. Banks are like a flow heater. What they collect on cheap-interest deposits is what they continue to lend with the risk premium. Low-interest loans cannot harm banks because they have long-term funding. The debt of the state is reduced by inflation that robs savers. It might seem that large inflation will help to erase state debts, which are now virtually indelible. In the current state budget deficits, science fiction is that we could ever repay the state debt. Only inflation can erase it, and therefore the depreciation of middle-class savings. More than half of the state budget consists of mandatorial expenses, which the state is obliged to pay by law. These dictatorial expenditures are mostly linked to inflation. For example, pensions are regularly valorized about inflation. By issuing anti-inflationary bonds, inflation is increasing interest on high debts. Churches will improve in this way this year, somewhere I read, by 7 billion crowns. We hear from the media that the Czech Republic is prospering and we have the highest standard of living in history. There's some truth to it, but raising state debt and consumption on debt is not prosperity. Everything in the world is relative. Compared to the purchase power of Němec or Rakušan, we are still poor. Yet the current standard of living of the population of the Czech Republic is extremely high compared to the standard of living of most inhabitants of the globe. Plus, a lot of people have saved money that they didn't spend in a corona-based pandemic. But now we are facing more and more frightening rising prices of energy, food, and other common goods. Already, people began to feel a decrease in the standard of living they were used to. So far, we have some savings to compensate for the high prices of goods. But as we gradually run out of these savings, the standard of living will be reduced and socially weaker will fall into real poverty. Gradually, new energy payments and rising prices will no longer be able to pay even orderly and always working people. Members of the government are reassuring the public that the government will not let anyone fall. The fact is, the government hasn't done much tangible for people yet. You just don't grieve with a promise. As a memorial, it reminds me of Prime Minister Fiala's sentence that she won't let anyone down, sayings by which Václav Havel swore to the crowds of people on Václavák, which I remember is that after November 1989 there will never be any unemployment and misery again. And also that we won't be making any more weapons in Czechoslovakia, because they won't be necessary, by the way. The attempt to reduce imports of strategic raw materials from Russia is something that the European economy will find difficult to deal with. If Russia's anti-sanctions of halting exports of raw materials add to this, it can lead to the collapse of certain industries and fundamentally endanger the economic foundations of our prosperity and our political system. [[17.40 hours]] From the beginning of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, alternative gas suppliers have been addressed, and Europe has set itself the target of reducing Russian gas during the economic war. Penalties prohibit public administrations in the Member States from having contracts concluded with Russian companies after 10 October. During spring there was an increase in the purchase of gas from Norway and Němec imported more gas from Norway than before. Perhaps Norwegian gas covers up to 30 percent of German needs. When they were in Qatar, they failed, and we probably won't have gas from here. The Norwegians are said to be unable to supply more because they are on their capacity and even extended the licenses that were to expire. Norwegian capacity will not help. It turns out that finding other alternatives for Russian gas is unsolvable in a short period of time. It can't be solved in a year or two, optimistic scenarios talk about three or four years. In this situation, Petr Fiala's government has set itself the main priority task of helping Ukraine win the war with Russia. It defines foreign policy objectives and forgets the real needs and possibilities of our country's economy. The government is unable to define the Czech national interest and takes over the interest that someone else is defining at the moment. In this case, it is an interest that has been largely defined in the United States: at all costs prevent the combination of German technology with Russian raw material wealth. We're in a war economy. There is a war not far from our borders, and we cannot play the standard functioning market as if there were peace times. The SPD published ten points long ago to solve the current cost. President Tomio Okamura talked about these points in detail, so I'm gonna pass and I'm gonna keep going. Petr Fiala's cabinet is constantly repeating the mantra for targeted assistance. However, all current pseudomeasures are de facto flat. For example, the government reduced the excise tax on gasoline by a crown of 80, but it reduced it by less than a crown. The rest remained in the pocket of the gas station owners. If this scalding cost an erary of 4 billion, the government threw 1.5 billion into the pumpers' pockets. Flat spending on debt won't help in the long run. Various media, wannabe politicologists, and people on the street have recently wondered why our government is practically doing nothing with increasing expensiveness. Those who did not forget to spend their money on helicopters before the last parliamentary elections knew why the government was talking and doing nothing and what would happen next. In September, just before the Senate and municipal elections, we will also throw money away to the voters, and they will take us as their savior and vote for us. And it did. Mostly area spending money three weeks before the election. But now is the time when we should take systemic steps. At least for the first time, it is necessary to get out of the emission allowance system for just a few years. Second, to pre-negotiate long-term gas supply contracts without unnecessary intermediates and third, to cancel the sale of energy via the stock exchange, where we produce electricity for 15 to 25 cents and buy it many times the price. These systemic steps can bring relief, and we will not be in debt at all. The government should now immediately put in place temporary flat-rate measures, as mentioned in those 10 SPD points, with the fact that, following the introduction of these systemic measures, it would abolish the flat-rate measures. Long-term spending means just increasing the government's debt, just like Babišův's government did. The Czech Government would in the coming (?) The Presidency of the European Union was to take advantage of this opportunity and the energy security of all EU countries to set the issue number one. But that would require political will and courage, because taking these steps is unpopular in the current political situation. Like buying gas straight from Russia. Czech television scares the unlearned laymen as it would be terrible to support Russia in the war in Ukraine. But the current Purple government supports it equally, and it also begs the inhabitants of the Czech Republic by increasing the Němec price because Russian gas buys expensively through Germany. The price of gas on the European stock market beats the record multiple times. According to the Czech Prime Minister it is necessary to find a common European solution. The Presidency's role should be to look for a European solution. But it is not clear what such a solution should look like, because the gas will simply be small. The question remains as to how the Member States of the European Union will share little gas. In the event of an acute gas shortage, it would mean that those countries that have more would have to limit themselves to the detriment of others. Previous experiences, when Europe was in a difficult situation, such as migration or covid, are not very encouraging. When it came to life's interest, countries were taking vaccines, drapes, and national egoism in different ways. Finally, I would like to draw attention to one report and perhaps as an inspiration. The half-million-dollar city of The Hague, where the Dutch Government or Parliament is based, has requested a temporary exemption from the EU sanctions imposed on Russia because of the war in Ukraine, because it has not found a new gas supplier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'd just like to clarify your point. Inflation, energy price increases, and economic collapse - or was there anything else in between? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u152	Acceleration and economic collapse. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u153	And just adding a new point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u154	Well, that should be as soon as possible. For two.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u155	Like a second point? Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u156	Second point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u157	Thank you, too. Mr Milan Brázdil will now appear and prepare Mr Ivan Jáč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u158	Madam President, thank you for the second time today. So don't be mad at me, please, co-workers, co-workers. I'm getting off on a hot topic like this. It probably didn't happen to anybody. My colleague, Ožanová, has already mentioned something about the fact that there are some mischiefs from the President of the House, that he will invite someone there, take pictures, and leave them here. So I come up with a topic that happened yesterday. I'm sure you know, Mlejnek, messy and quite shut down by the Security Committee's meeting. Yeah, it was a tough meeting, and we all kind of knew the nervousness was there. Five six cameras, and - the MP yells at me, I don't understand what he wanted. Nothing, I see. And yesterday there was a shut-down situation, and even the President, and you know him, Mr. Žáček, who is the head of the Security Committee, had a pretty full of hooves and was nervous and didn't know how to behave, didn't know, talked about us not approving anything, we approved it. And he couldn't even keep up with the fact that we should vote for some verifier. All right, that's what's gonna happen. But the discussion itself began, and he commented on each and every comment from each of us. He's the one who's supposed to actually preside over it, give the floor, and if he wants to comment on something, command, or I don't know, have an opinion, he should give himself a word. And it kind of pissed me off, I'm saying, please don't comment because it's not meant to be. Yeah, but that was just the beginning. And what is happening is that we are already in a detailed debate and suddenly, and that has never happened to anyone before. And I must say that Mrs Černochová was once a member of the Security Committee, and there she was after the President, after the President, it was Mr Koten, who did not allow him to do anything! We didn't take our jacket off there, they said I didn't allow it. She's been acting like a masculine-oriented woman who's bossing us around! [[17.50 hours]] Okay, that happened, that happened, that may be all, but now we're on a completely different level, and now Mr. Žáček is in charge of the ODS. Pavel Žáček. And I pointed it out to him, and then it continued in that detailed debate. Imagine, I took the liberty of reading as a Member or saying that I want to have my motion for a resolution. I've done a lot of daring. Imagine, I was prevented! Once again, ladies and gentlemen, to me on the Security Committee - and I would expect Mr Žáček to have some elementary experience after five years, that simply a Member who is the head or who is a member of the committee may make a motion for a resolution in a detailed debate. He said to you: You cannot give it, it must be adopted by fellow Mašek. So I thought to myself, he's had enough, he's probably not handling it, okay. So I pointed out: You're wrong, you're shortening my mandate. And that's my theme. Limitation, preventing - this is a better word - preventing the exercise of the mandate or the right of a Member. On the Security Committee, where the secret services of our republic are being dealt with, where one villain next to the other and a lot of problems are being dealt with, and I read that I wanted to ask Mr Mlejnek to resign as a committee. That's what we're asking for a resignation. That was it, resigning as director. That was my suggestion. I wasn't allowed to file it. I read it. But about my proposal, my colleagues, who was there, you will confirm it to me. It's on the record. There were quite a lot of cameras. I Žáčekn't know what happened to him. I pointed it out to him, and he limited my mandate. This is how we live here, ladies and gentlemen, you are watching this. Members of the Coalition are restricting the exercise of the mandate here, making it impossible for someone to read their motion for a resolution. Very simple. It sounded - Mr. Mlejnek, just consider it, we're asking you to step down. That'll solve everything. I was actually helping you, you coalition. So Prime Minister Fiala doesn't have to deal with anything, so Mr. Rakušan doesn't have to do anything. Just Mr. Mlejnek will sort it out by seeing you, I'll finish tomorrow, and it's settled. So I suggested it. That wasn't such a resolution. But I couldn't suggest it. My proposal wasn't voted on. I was prevented - according to the Rules of Procedure. That's why I came up with this topic, and I wanted to place this point, as in help me. You know, I put it on the mandate and immune committee. But there is no mandate for Mr. Žáček. We can't get rid of him there because he doesn't behave properly, or he doesn't know the Rules of Procedure better. Well, he doesn't. I don't know. If this happened last time, Mrs. Černochová would have been running around the House long ago and we'll call Koten off, we'll call everyone off because they can't execute a mandate and stuff like that. I want to ask you, help me, let me place this point and tell me what to do. Should I file a criminal report? That's stupid. He's got immunity. What am I supposed to do? Mrs. Helena Válková, chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, so I told her, I gave her the record, so they'll deal with it. So this is the absurdity of this democratic House, allegedly under the leadership of people who are lashing out their democracies and won't even let the opposition Member make a motion and have a vote on it. That's what we've done, people of this country. That's the government. It's the House's leadership. These are the chairmen of the various committees. Once again, I'm asking you to place that point not because I'm hit by it. I can do this. But that may happen to each of you, that you will be prevented from exercising your rights like this, the performance of the Member's mandate. I don't know how many preferential votes he had. I've always been here for preferences. He's fighting for the Comanche. Actually, against the Comanches, I'm sorry. And I'm on the ground, I'm a paramedic. Help me figure this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u159	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Just your point? Because you have another one in the design here. Failure to exercise the mandate of a Member?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u160	Yes, I'm sorry I didn't say where. I'm the one who put my first proposal in the first place that I want to be the last, so I don't want to tear it, so I want it to be the second-to-last. So the second-to-last and the last point is going to be a Milan Brázdil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u161	Wait. So what point...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u162	Madam President, the previous one about the rescue workers I wanted to include last, and I would like this to be the penultimate point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u163	Like the second-to-last. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now - Mr Jáč cancels his proposal to amend the approved programme or the application, and now Mr Jiří Mašek will appear, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u164	Madam President, Minister, fellow Members, I am asking for this inclusion of the CEZ point fully in the hands of the state. Why am I asking this? We have a number of important topics that are currently resonating. We have Mr. Rakušan, we have Mr. Mlejnek, mentioned by my colleague Brázdil. We have a meeting to discuss the financing of health care. However, what our citizens and our businesses burn most is dramatic energy prices. The price on the energy exchanges continues to affect the astronomical level. While European gas had already humiliated EUR 300 on Tuesday for a megawatt hour, electricity was at 600, so on Wednesday it was over 700. So it's roughly CZK 17.5,000 per megawatt hour of electricity. Just to compare and illustrate and some comparison with the past, over the past decade, the average gas price was below EUR 20 per megawatt hour and in the case of electricity around EUR 40 per megawatt hour. Why don't you make proposals for solutions at central level within the European Union when we chair it as a government? It's up to you. You have a great opportunity to do something about it. Not only households, but in particular about half of our energy-intensive industry, have become involved in existential problems by doing nothing. You, your government, are responsible for this entire economic disaster. Not all events were such that they could be responded to in time, but we would expect a much faster response. Unfortunately, you almost bailed on this as a government and preferred the interests of Germany and the European Union within Europe as well as, among other things, the interests of CEZ minority shareholders over the interests of the Czech nation. The Czech Government's existing measures aim to compensate for higher energy costs for households and, to a lesser extent, companies. The question is, will it help? At this point, I am convinced that not much more. At current energy prices, it's obvious that adequate aid would have to be a lot higher, and this republic doesn't have the power to do that. In other words, the energy crisis is gaining momentum in time, and if we do not believe in its rapid end, we need to start looking at more comprehensive proposals on how to reconfigure the entire energy concept. Of course, there are several options. The one that the government is now beginning to approach and is even talking about is the energy ceiling. Here I would like to remind you that we proposed a proposal for a ceiling on energy prices early in the spring when we were in the crisis. I also recall the possibility of reducing VAT, which our government did at the end of the year for fuel and gas prices in the past period. It's interesting that some states have already done this. These are, for example, our neighbors in Slovakia, who were able to negotiate with the dominant owners of the power plants there, and under a certain threat of sector tax they reached a ceiling of about EUR 61 per megawatt hour. Similarly, France, Spain, Portugal and other countries proceed. The restriction of the electricity market, where the State Trader Institute could play an important role, would also be a solution. Finally, the last frequently tilted option is the reform of the emission allowance market. But it is currently dealing with this situation from a relatively small part. So please start doing something really. In Czech terms, we could use the fact that we are a net exporter of electricity, or that we are fully self-sufficient and that we sell something above self-sufficiency abroad. Strangely enough, it is also Slovakia. [[18.00 hours]] One of the options that can be considered and should be considered is therefore to get ČEZ fully into the hands of the state. In ČEZ we currently have 70 percent as shareholders, as a state. And in a normal stock company, it's usually enough to have 51 percent, dominate there, and then make decisions about it. Of course, I understand that minority owners, which are 30%, have some rights and that it is not entirely easy for them to redeem the shares. Experts estimate that this would cost approximately CZK 200 billion at present. And we're still hanging out with it. Here I would like to remind you that today the government boasts that it has already given around CZK 177 billion to the bailout of inflation, boasting that it has given about CZK 66 billion to energy compensation, which is huge amounts, and yet does not solve the fundamental problem, that is, the ceiling on energy prices, which, as we all know, is being translated into the prices of everything that is produced in this republic and increasing inflation. Let us note that in those countries where they somehow managed to control those energies, inflation is significantly lower than inflation in our country. I understand it's a long run, that we're not gonna do it here day-to-day, but we need to make a deal about it, get on the coalition-position line and enforce the nationalization of ČEZ. I would like to say one thing. Because I am a member of the Security Committee, and today I will not bother you with Mr Mlejnek or Mr Rakušan, although these are also important topics, but I will remember a memorable meeting of the Committee 31. 3rd of this year. It was shortly or about a month after Russia invaded Ukraine. And then we had a point there to quote it precisely, Information on the Czech Republic's energy security in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. One of the main guests there was Mr. Václav Bartuška, a special agent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for energy security issues. And gentlemen, who may even be sitting here from the coalition, they will remember that, because he told us so much information that we all got serious and, so to speak, our chin fell down on all of us. I expected the government to react somehow, and very quickly. Mr. Bartuška literally told us... - And I'm going to say that I was very surprised today by the Minister of Justice, who basically said the same thing here five months after that. But five months have gone by, and nothing has happened, the government hasn't done anything significant, even though it has nine of its coalition MPs as members of the committee. And I assume that information is being transmitted from the committee to those responsible ministers. - And there Mr Bartuška literally told us that if we don't do something and we don't provide enough energy resources, the Czech Republic will collapse as one of the first ones, because we are mostly tied to the supply of gas from Russia, but at the same time he said that if the whole of Europe doesn't take on this, some major measures, and he said there were indications that one of them was also a price cap, so the whole system of the European Union will collapse. And today, for the first time in five months, we hear it, or we hear it, from the Minister of Justice. Why not from Mr. Síkela, why not from the Prime Minister? Today, the Minister of Justice in such a mood that he probably stopped being a disciplined member of the coalition and said what he really thought, so he said it here. But we know this information from a person who is most eligible for it, is actually an envoy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Energy within the European Union, so we knew the information, so we, as opposition MPs, had to know it too. Then I watched Mr. Bartuška perform in the media. He said it again in about two days on ČT24 and later he was probably advised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to slow down in these considerations. So we know the problem, we knew the options. I'm not going to deny the current government some of the steps in the field of investigation, apart from the nonsense that has been said here, of course, about reducing the temperatures in the individual bathrooms, the unheated corridors, but just nonsense, which I think we all know here, according to which if we were to follow, we would have gone wrong. So I'm almost over this. We can consider it quite a success to obtain a LNG terminal in Holland, which could restore up to one third of our winter consumption. But many experts here say "could," but many of them question the possibility of transporting the gas in sufficient quantities to the Czech Republic and, respectively, the issues of ownership of some of the other reservoirs where the government negotiated gas supplies, but a number of experts question whether the private owners would actually deliver the gas to us. And the so-called winning that we have negotiated solidarity within the European Union, with those states like Germany turning off their factories in solidarity so as not to freeze our old-ageers, I guess few people can believe that. And with the fact that I actually referred to Minister Blažek today in this talk of mys, and I very much appreciate his opinion because he said it openly here and I hope that the government will follow up on his words, so I will borrow from today's article on News from the statement by Mr. Governor Martin Kuba, the Regional Association chief, who named it very cleverly and also said that there is nothing left to wait for, that the government must put a stop to the price of those energies, that there is no other way. According to him, the cabinet should regulate prices for households no later than the beginning of next year. Let's call it a regulated or austerity price, said Mr. Kuba. At the same time, he said that the authorities are proposing that the state should gain 100% share in the production capacities of ČEZ, and he was just talking about the fact that the state is 70 percent in the current state and that we should essentially nationalize the ČEZ. At the same time, he suggested that the government should negotiate at European Union level on the price cap in so-called closed power plants, the supply of which depends on the stock exchange prices. The power plants would receive the subsidised part of the electricity produced, which they supply on the market, which would lead to a decline in the market as a whole. Spain and Portugal, among other things, have already taken such a step. At the same time, Mr. Governor Kuba said that we should take advantage of the current negotiations with the representative of Germany, especially with Germany. According to Prime Minister Fiala of the ODS, the incentives of the regions to change energy are not new. The Prime Minister says the government has been dealing with them for weeks. However, according to the Prime Minister, none of the proposed measures has a quick and simple solution. And we're still in this problem over and over again: we're acting, we're looking for a solution, it's not easy. At the same time I would get from Novinek.cz He even borrowed a survey to which about 1,500 respondents contributed, and there was a question: Should the government put a stop to energy prices? What about our citizens? For the sake of interest, 96,7 percent of our citizens demand a ceiling on electricity and gas prices, and only 3.3 percent think that this is not necessary. Finally, I would like to borrow the words of Minister Síkela, who said: Energy prices are completely out of reality. I would add: No, unfortunately, energy prices today are real exchange prices at which energy is purchased. Outside of reality is Minister Síkela. So thank you for your attention and I would like to include this point, which would be called CEZ fully in the hands of the state, and if you're so kind, write it as the first point. [[In the meantime, the President has changed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and allow me to say hello to all of you. Before we introduce another speaker, I will read Mr. Jan Bureš's apology for business reasons. Now I would like another enrollment, this is Mr Richard Brabec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u166	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am pleased to be able to follow up on the speech of my dear and esteemed fellow Member, Mr Mašek, because I will follow up on a topic that he has been talking about for quite a long time. Now I'm going to paraphrase the classics a little bit, so really "sprained out of the joints is going crazy" and in this case not just in the field of energy. But I would like to talk to you today, and, of course, if that point were approved, I would like to talk more about one specific indicator that we've already talked about here, or the parameter, and that's actually what the new government, the Fialův government, did with the price of emission allowances. And I'm going to tell you a few numbers that quite recently appeared, and I think they're very interesting because they tell a lot about what's actually going on in the world today. These are the figures for global greenhouse gas emissions, because those emissions increased sharply by 6 percent last year, i.e. 2021. When I say sharp and 6%, maybe it's a bit of a contradiction for someone, but really from the world's point of view, the increase of 6% is huge. And I will not surprise you that, of course, the biggest issuer is China, which has already reached a third share of world emissions, has over 33 percent, but what may surprise you, and that is the most important thing, in my opinion, what is then, as a donkey bridge to the question that I want to talk about, that while the heat hardly other continents of the Earth, in this case, when we are talking about the continent, especially Europe, or the European Union, to be absolutely accurate, it is so hard to try to reduce emissions, and that reduction of all countries, including the EU, was about 570 million tons a year, so China has fully increased by 750 million tons. That means everything the world saves, so China makes up and adds something else. What's the best proof that the system is completely - well, we'll say it sucks, it's just the numbers. This means that it is not alibiism, I have tweeted it and, of course, I have received a number of different reactions, from the praiseworthy ones to the less commendable ones, but I want to say this because I am saying this because what the European Union is playing, what some Czech politicians are unfortunately playing here is the famous fairy tale of the Emperor's new dress. Everyone just admires the emperor who's naked, but few are willing to say when the child says it, that the emperor is naked. We're just still pretending that Europe is going to save the system, and obviously, according to those numbers, Europe can't save it because it's less than 9 percent and it's falling logically. And now, in a situation where at least this year will be even worse, because of course it is growing not only this year, but also in the next at least one year it will increase the combustion of coal, which naturally increases CO2 emissions significantly compared to, for example, emissions from the combustion of natural gas. That means we can expect another increase in emissions. And if we look at it this way, we clearly find that what Europe is really trying to do behind big victims, reducing competitiveness and pooring people, and what I wouldn't even question if solidarity were world-class, i.e. reducing CO2 emissions, so if it turns out the way it is so far, unfortunately, it always turns out from other issuers that it ends up on the level of those promises at those climate conferences, where everyone really poets and promises the mountains and the hordes that they can do, but then, of course, the hard numbers will come, and the only thing that has happened was the time of the covidic, when the world economy has fallen, and then emissions have fallen significantly. But we've already settled them, and they've been levelled primarily by countries like China. On reducing emissions in Russia, I think that we need not even talk about the current situation, but especially about the current situation, but of course India and other giant issuers, including the United States, are not better off. And now I come to the issue of emission allowances, because we remember how Prime Minister Fiala was doing both in the election campaign and here in the House, in the context of a situation where the roles were reversed, when we were in the government and today's government represented the opposition, and so did how something has to change fundamentally in the emission allowances system, in the European system - and something has changed, but worse. Definitely. This means today's price is somewhere around 90 euros, but until a week ago it was 100 euros per tonne of CO2 and it is possible, or almost certain, that it will get back to the 100 euros and maybe even over the psychological limit soon. Of course, this is simply related to the demand for the purchase of those emission allowances, because the fuels that are more demanding are going to burn more, so it is clear that it will have pressure to increase the price of the emission allowances. And the current Czech government, however intensely in this, let's say, has fought against the extremely high price of emission allowances, so the concrete steps it has taken paradoxically lead to an even higher price, because it has decided, for example, that in the so-called market stabilisation reserve, where they are postponed, when I say it to the people, those allowances, when the price is low, which happened last quite a long time ago, will be even faster, according to the current decision, to withdraw the emission allowances from volume (?) and it's gonna grow even more, it's gonna push for another increase in emission allowances. So what I meant to say is that I would like to hear from the government - and that is also where my proposal to include a new point, which would be called Government Information on how to deal with the high price of emission allowances - how it wants to face it in this situation, in a situation where, of course, we are chairing the European Council and we should come up with those proposals. I don't see in the environmental department's agenda today that we're going too far into what we're proposing. And yes, it is not at all simple, but if that government had the rhetoric, or the former opposition, today's government wants to fundamentally fight against the extremely high price of allowances by, for example, by ceilinging, I would very much like to hear what it has done or what it intends to do, especially in the light of the situation that I just said a moment ago, so in this global view, it is clear that it is failing, and let's just say that there is an increasing argument that the European Union's alone effort to reduce emissions in this global context is simply failing. Because, unlike other emissions, global greenhouse gas emissions, as we know, do not have boundaries, it does not matter whether these emissions are released into the air in Germany, the Czech Republic or China, simply from the perspective of global emissions and the impact on the greenhouse effect or global warming, of course, have the same effect. Even worse, because the European industry is, let's say, the least demanding, that is, if we close a part of the industry in Europe here, we move it to China or India or other countries that aren't so emissively watching it, so paradoxically per unit of production, we're going to have that volume of emissions higher than we should at the same unit of production in Europe. So it's worse for the planet. [[18.20 hours]] I would very much like to see, even in the Czech Republic, in the new Czech government, and then the wish, which, of course, is already entirely science fiction, that even some of the main, say, European Union players, this fairy tale of the Emperor's new dress will stop playing and to look the truth in the eyes and say that the very worst outcome that could have it would be that it will not help in the finals of the planet. Europe will become poor, people will become poor, and we will not have enough money for these adaptation measures, such as water retention in the countryside. And these are the measures that we have in hand, and unfortunately those measures to reduce greenhouse gases significantly, we do not have so much in hand. They have the biggest issuers in their hands, and they're very stepmotherly about it. So, finally, Mr President, I would like to ask for the inclusion of a point, as I have already said, entitled Information on the Government's solution to a high emission allowance price, and I would like to ask for the inclusion as a third point within the thus fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u167	Thank you. So the government's information on solving the high price of emission allowances as point three. Now I would like another enrollment, and this is Mr Karel Tureček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to propose the inclusion of a point of the Czech Government's measures in the area of food prices, because I believe that in this area, the Fiala Government, unfortunately, Petr not only done nothing in 242 days, but it is building an interesting system in which the Czech Republic should become a food producer for the top ten thousand inhabitants and not a food producer that is affordable for the ten million inhabitants of the Czech Republic. I would like to return a little to 1990, when the federal government of Prime Minister Čalfa and eventually the government of Václav Klaus, the father of the founder of today's ruling Civil Democratic Party, were faced with a similar problem. At that time, deregulation of energy prices, prices of water and sewers took place, but what Václav Klaus, Chairman of the ODS, Minister of Finance federal and then Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, was very careful so that food prices in the Czech Republic would not start to grow uncontrollably. In his own way, he did not agree to regulate food prices, but two steps by the government back then, Čalfův's federal government sought to maintain socially available food prices. The first step was when the government abolished the so-called negative agricultural tax on individual commodities in 1990, so it was that the return or savings of this step represented CZK 14 billion for the state budget. However, the then government did not decide to keep the money and keep it in the budget for other purposes, but it divided it across the board to all citizens of the then Czech and Slovak Federal Republics. Maybe some of you remember, it was a year and a half, every citizen at the time received 140 crowns a month, which, of course, in today's kind of purchasing power, it was definitely about other funds. It was also Václav Klaus, who, as Prime Minister, when the bill on value added tax was discussed in 1992, and in 1993 the value added tax was introduced as a new tax as part of the tax reform, made a significant contribution to ensuring that the rate of food was not higher than 21 per cent, but was set at the limit except for luxury foods such as caviar, so it was set at 5 per cent. These two steps practically contributed to the fact that KDU-ČSL's proud folk chair and then the Minister of Agriculture could talk about food prices becoming a pillow for inflation in the Czech Republic. This was the case, because, whether it liked it or not, then the government secured practically affordable food. However, it was also in cooperation with the great victim of all farmers and food professionals, who for about six years had lost affordable food for the Czech Republic. Back then, Czech agriculture and food industry ended up in deep red numbers. However, it was a kind of partnership between farmers and food professionals on the one hand and on the other hand the Government of the Czech Republic. I am talking about this quite in detail because unfortunately, the Government of the Czech Republic, the Government of Petr Fiala as Prime Minister, the Ministry of Agriculture, under the leadership of Mr Nekula, does not want this partnership. Since the start of the government, it has been doing practically contradictory steps, which, of course, have an impact not on the stabilisation of food prices, but are driving food prices up so that after energy, gas, fuel food prices become practically one of the sources of inflation, which, of course, affects all citizens of the Czech Republic negatively. One of these first steps on 9 January, and I stress this, was - we have been talking about this for a long time, but I think we will continue to talk about it, we will talk about it all autumn, because from the very beginning we have said that this is a bad solution, which, of course, will not bring good things to Czech agriculture and ultimately to Czech citizens - it has been a quick adjustment without any consultation, an adjustment of the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy for the period 2023 to 2027. At that time the government without any documentation, or sorry, the government did not, at that time it was a special group called "the big five," so there wasn't even the Minister of Agriculture, he couldn't speak to the expert, decided that from one day to the day he would change the practically negotiated strategic plan and set up another. I just want to remind you that paradox when I asked the Minister of Agriculture about the grounds on which the government had decided, or the five coalition council, on the basis of a study that had been sent to me. The paradox of this is that the study was dated January 11th, and the five-calice decided on this point on January 9th. So I think it was a short-term feedback study. I want to say that she has decided unprofessionally that she prefers practically just a narrow group, a group of producers, who are practically involved in total food production in the Czech Republic with one and a half percent. So he prefers a narrow, very narrow group of these producers. [[18.30 hours]] Another essential prerequisite for stabilizing and reducing food price growth is, of course, the regulation of trade chains. This is where the government presented a law on significant market power, which we will discuss in the autumn at second reading. And when I asked the Minister of Agriculture himself to speak publicly and give all his colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies a guarantee that this bill on significant market power will not make the position of farmers and food professionals worse against transnational trade chains worse, the Minister kept silent. Why, if he is convinced of such a quality of this bill, why is he silent and pushing for practical enforcement of this law in an accelerated procedure without possible amendments? And the other problem that the government is practically leaving food prices at the mercy of the free market is that it does nothing about the price of energy towards farmers, which, of course, puts Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmers at a disadvantage towards colleagues from Poland, which, for example, significantly contribute national budgets to energy prices and fertiliser prices, further disadvantages Hungarian farmers, so I could continue. Not to mention Western Europe. When the Minister of Agriculture Nekula was given the great chance to provide rapid assistance to our farmers in the form of a crisis package, which they approved at the Council of the European Union and for the Czech Republic in combination with national budget funds, it meant an amount of CZK 831 million, he did not take this chance. Although the programme has been written out, while in Germany and in the countries around Europe, the funds have already been paid out, our farmers are still waiting for these funds. But what is literally reprehensible is that the Government of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture, when the Minister of Agriculture of the Czech Republic became President of the Council of Ministers, virtually European Minister of Agriculture, does not use this position to convene an extraordinary Council of Agriculture Ministers on issues that should address precisely the area of food price growth throughout the European Union, but also, of course, to give recommendations to the Council of Ministers for Energy on how to contribute to the stabilisation of food prices in this sector by stabilizing energy prices. The Minister didn't just use his right, but he's been silent and sending out strange signals. I will recall his statement on July 13, when he said in front of TV viewers that food price growth is short-term and that food prices will go down in three weeks. Of course that didn't happen. And he was already well aware of that in that statement, only he had a need not to speak the truth and mist, as he has done for 242 days of his reign. I also want to say that he told us yesterday that, of course, growth in food prices is due to energy prices, but we have been telling him here, through my colleagues, from the beginning, that one of those early ones that started slowly uncontrolled food price growth is the rise in energy prices and other inputs, fuels and fertilisers in particular. He didn't deal with it, and he doesn't deal with it any further as Chairman of the Council of Ministers. It's not the whole government, it's not Petr Fiala, who's talking about some green agriculture. But I say again, he talks about wanting to produce food clearly for the top 10,000 inhabitants and not affordable food for the citizens of the Czech Republic. He does not want to take advantage of the potential of Czech agriculture and food industry, which he certainly has in terms of increasing the Czech Republic's food self-sufficiency. On the contrary, with his speeches, Prime Minister Fiala divides farmers, dividing them into small and large ones. And the big and medium-sized farmers are enemies of the government because they're responsible for rising food prices. I can't imagine, gentlemen and ladies, if that's what German chancellor Scholz would say about farmers from Saxony and prefer small farmers from Bavaria. I've talked about this several times, it's a matter of historical moments. And just as agriculture in Saxony must be bigger than that in Bavaria, it has a historical context with us as well, why fewer people are employed in agriculture in the Czech Republic than in Western Europe. Why, for example, the size of a farm is larger than in Western Europe. Of course, this also has advantages that the government does not want to take advantage of, and it prefers a narrow group of interests of those who are not interested in producing these foods. Therefore, I would like this point, when Petr Fiala and Zdeněk Nekula will answer to us, to be included on the agenda of this meeting. As I have already said, this point should be called the Czech Government's Action on Food Prices. And I propose his inclusion in this meeting as the first item after the new points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u169	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. So I repeat: you propose the Czech Government's measures in the area of food prices as item number one. Thank you, and please, another of the applicants, and this is Mrs Lucie Šafránková. And please prepare - Mrs Lucie Šafránková, you have two requests here, correct? And after that, I ask that Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská prepare herself. Thank you and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u170	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, I wish you a lovely evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include the SPD's proposal to amend the Social Services Act as the first item on the agenda for today's meeting, which is House press number 9. It is a proposal which is the essence of increasing the contribution to care for disabled persons in the so-called first and second degree of dependence on home care. These persons have been increased by about 10 per cent in the last six years in 2016, while in the third and fourth levels of dependence, this contribution - and it is correct - has been increased more frequently. Just to give you a closer idea, the right to a care allowance in the first degree of addiction are those persons under the age of 18 who, due to their long-term adverse health condition, are unable to cope with three basic needs of life and who are entitled to this allowance in the second degree of dependence then have persons who are unable to cope with four to five basic needs of life. At the age of 18, they are entitled to a care allowance in the first degree of dependence of persons who are unable to cope with three to four basic needs of life, and at the second stage those who cannot handle five to six basic needs of life. So these are people with quite serious and fundamental health disabilities and life restrictions. [[18.40 hours]] To grant a care allowance, the ability to manage ten basic needs of life is assessed: mobility, orientation, communication, eating, dressing and shoeing, physical hygiene, physiological needs, health care, personal activities, household care in persons over the age of 18. The present amount of care allowance for persons under 18 years of age is CZK 3,300 per calendar month in the case of degree one, and CZK 6,600 in the case of degree two. The amount of care allowance for persons over the age of 18 is currently CZK 880 per calendar month if it is level one, which is absolutely unacceptable when we realize that these are persons who cannot handle up to four basic needs of life, and CZK 4,400 per month if they are degree two. The financial gap between the amount of the care allowance for persons in the first and second stages of dependence on the one hand and those in the third and fourth stages of dependence on the other is increasingly widened, while the current amount of the allowance for the first group of disabled persons, for those with a light and moderate dependence, is absolutely insufficient in particular in some of these categories and cannot in any case ensure the acquisition of adequate qualified care, assistance or assistance in particular, and this is very timely when the prices and payment limits of these services will be increased at present and when the government in its draft budget for this year reduces the amount of funds allocated to the care allowance and reduces it by almost one billion crowns. As a result of the absolute inadequacy of the amount of these care allowances for home care workers, the placement of those dependent on the care of others from their natural home and family environments in various social services establishments is often a consequence, which cannot be judged to be a positive trend, not only from the economic point of view of the balance of public budgets. Therefore, we propose to increase the allowance for care for persons under the age of 18 by 50 per cent in the first degree of dependence from CZK 3,300 per month to CZK 4, 950 per month and in the second stage of dependence from CZK 6,600 per month to CZK 9,900 per month. Furthermore, we propose to increase the care allowance for persons over 18 years of age by 200 % from the current 880 crowns to at least 2 640 per month and for those over 18 years of age, then we propose to increase this allowance by 50 percent from the current 4 400 to 6 600 per month. The budgetary effects of our proposal are at most in the order of lower units of billions of crowns per year, which is not a dizzying sum in the context of all budget expenditures. It is a sum that can be quite easily replaced by cutting off other, very unnecessary expenditures that do not serve to increase the quality of life of our citizens and which are not in the public interest, unlike the care of the state and the public sector, of our disabled fellow citizens, who are clearly in the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your support and inclusion of this point. And as a second point, I suggest we put it on the program -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u171	Sorry. I'm gonna interrupt you here. So once again, I'm going to repeat the title: I'm going to increase my contribution to the care of the disabled. This is the Social Services Act, House Press 9, and it is the first point. Yes? [[Yes, it is.]] Okay, thank you. And please, to the next point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u172	Yes. As a second point, I propose to include on the agenda of today's meeting a proposal by the SPD to amend the Act on granting benefits to persons with disabilities, and this is House Press No 119. Specifically, it is an increase in the mobility allowance. The current amount of this contribution is only CZK 550 per month. As a general rule, a person older than one year of age is entitled to a mobility allowance when it comes to a citizen with disabilities, i.e. mobility or orientation. They are therefore citizens who are entitled to a ZTP or ZTP/P licence granted under the regulations effective from 1 January 2014 and citizens who are repeatedly, periodically, transported or transported each month for reimbursement. Compliance with the conditions for re-transporting for reimbursement shall be demonstrated by the applicant for this contribution by an honest declaration. At the same time, they must be those persons who are not provided with social services under the Social Services Act in a home for disabled persons, in a home for seniors, in a home with a special regime or in a health facility for institutional care. For reasons worthy of special consideration, the mobility allowance may also be granted to persons who are provided with resident social services provided that it fulfils all other legal conditions. Compliance with the conditions for re-transporting shall be demonstrated and demonstrated in such cases and shall not be sufficient for a declaration of honour. The procedure for granting the mobility allowance shall be initiated on the basis of a written request made on the form prescribed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The application shall be submitted at the contact point of the regional branch of the Labour Office in the place of permanent residence of the applicant for a contribution. The contribution to mobility in its current form exists from 1. 1st year 2012, when the current benefits replaced the contribution to the operation of the motor vehicle and the contribution to individual transport, which until then had been paid once a year. The contribution to the operation of the motor vehicle was CZK 6 000 per year for the holder of the ZTP licence and CZK 9 000 per year for the holder of the ZTP/P licence. The contribution to individual transport amounted to CZK 6,500 per year. In particular, for the holders of the ZTP/P card, the change in the settings of this contribution made by the ODS and TOP 09 was highly descriptive and very negative, and its current level is far from close to its level at the time, and this needs to be changed. We therefore proposed an increase in the mobility allowance from 550 crowns a month to 825 crowns a month. This contribution in its current form was last increased on 1 January 2018, i.e. more than four years ago. Since then, there has been a significant increase in fare prices in public transport, in particular the interurban bus and train, beyond normal average inflation, and especially in recent times there has been an extreme increase in fuel prices and other costs associated with individual car transport. And there has also been a significant increase in other irreplaceable living costs of disabled citizens, including the cost of providing them with the necessary social services, medicines, medical aids and so on. At the same time, special regional discounts on public transport are cancelled in some regions of the Czech Republic. A higher increase in the mobility allowance than is included in our proposal about six months ago, which we are addressing with our amendment, in which we are proposing a new increase in the mobility allowance from the originally proposed 825 crowns per month to CZK 1,650 per month. This is, among other things, a double increase compared to its level in 2012, before the then ODS and TOP 09 reduced it very insensitively and senselessly. In short, increasing the mobility allowance is one of the ways to compensate for the steep increase in transport costs not only to our disabled citizens in at least part of a certain way, given that transport in the sense of mobility needs to be an absolute, often daily necessity for traveling to employment, to doctors, to authorities and so on. The submitted legislation is in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic and fully respects the general principles of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and does not conflict with the Constitutional Court's findings. The proposed regulation also does not conflict with the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. We estimate the financial impact of the increase in the mobility allowance from CZK 550 to CZK 1,650 per month on the state budget according to data on the number of people who receive the mobility allowance on a regular and long-term basis to approximately CZK 2.5 billion per year, which in the overall context of the budget volume is not an item that we could not afford to invest on a good and worthy cause. The proposed adjustment will have no impact on regional and local budgets. [[18.50 hours]] At the same time, increasing the mobility allowance will strengthen the purchasing demand of those with disabilities, i.e. by increasing their interest in purchasing transport services, which will in turn strengthen the revenues of suppliers of these services and goods. The proposed legislation will have favourable social implications, as will the impact of the proposed measure on families of people with disabilities dependent on transport security, which will increase the available revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, in the name of our disabled citizens, on whom the current price increase is really very difficult and the quality of their lives is unacceptably worse, I ask you to include this item on the agenda of this meeting and, consequently, to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u173	Thank you, Madame. I'm just specifying when you want to place that point. [[Second.]] Second. Yes. Thank you. And I would like another logged in, and that's the last logged in - Mr Radek Rozvoral, Mr. Excuse me, we still have Mrs. Lesenská. I'm sorry I forgot about her. So also Mrs Lesenská and then the last one registered so far, and this is Mr Radek Rozvoral. You have the floor, Madame. Thank you. And I'm sorry to do enough, I'm sorry, or I'm canceling Mr. Oldřich Černý's apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues, allow me to propose to include in the agenda of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies discussing the proposal of the SPD to amend the pension insurance law, when it comes to the House press number 24. The basis and substance of this proposal is the introduction of a minimum guaranteed old-age pension for all Czech citizens, but for those who are entitled to the creation and receipt of an old-age pension, i.e. for those who have fulfilled the relevant legal conditions for achieving the pension age and fulfilling the necessary period of pension insurance. We propose the amount of this minimum old-age pension for starters to set at the level of the current minimum wage. The proposed design of this minimum old-age pension fully respects all other legal conditions for granting separate old-age pensions and so-called combined pensions. The basic legislation for calculating the amount of pensions thus remains unaffected, due to the smooth and smooth administrative integration of the minimum pension institute into our pension system. The relatively important provision of our proposal is the fact that the granting of a minimum old-age pension will always take place on a case-by-case basis only on the basis of the assessment of the insured person's application, and therefore the employees of the Czech Social Security Administration will not be unduly overwhelmed by the obligation to recalculate thousands of individual existing pensions and their constituencies. This will always be done only at the request of a particular citizen of a pensioner. The fight for a significant increase in the lowest pensions from which we cannot live dignifiedly is one of the main long-term priorities of our movement. This is a step which can no longer be put up with a long delay because the life situation of our low-income seniors, even with regard to the current context of enormously rising energy prices, food and other basic needs of life, is absolutely unbearable. In this context, the introduction of a minimum pension is clearly a better and more systemic solution than referring to seniors by the current government to apply for a housing allowance, which is lengthy and administratively extremely demanding. Not to mention that many low-income seniors will not achieve this contribution at all. Mostly because they do not know about this possibility at all, which, according to serious studies, is basically about 300,000 of our seniors and even those who are entitled to the housing allowance. It is totally unacceptable for us that tens of thousands of seniors, after a lifetime of hard work, are forced to live from income far below the poverty line and fall as a result of this into debt traps and executions, or undergo debilitating and often degrading Martyrium applications for social benefits several times a year. Build old-age pensioners who have worked for the company for several decades and who have often broken health, into the situation of social welfare applicants, figuratively and literally in one row with those who have not worked at all, is also unethical, immoral and inhumane in my opinion. Citizens who have worked honestly for our country all their lives deserve to experience dignified old age. The introduction of a minimum pension institute will also undoubtedly reduce the costs and demands of the social system itself. It is also an institute that has been a standard part of many European countries' pension systems for a long time. On the other hand, the current setting of the Czech pension system is unfair and systemically defective and does not guarantee the possibility of a dignified experience of the retirement age of our citizens. Quite the opposite. I ask that we have the opportunity to change this while there is still time. Thank you for your attention and I would like you to support the inclusion of this item in the agenda of this meeting as the last one for the points that have already been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u175	Thank you, Madame. Everything's marked. I warmly greet you, Madam and Members, on this evening. And now the last one is signed in with a proposal to amend or amend the agenda, namely Mr Radek Rozvoral. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u176	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to propose an extraordinary point, to discuss the constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Czech Republic, House Press 7, which concerns the direct election of mayors and captains, as the first point of today's negotiations. The SPD is proposing this amendment to the Constitution with the conviction that the subsequent adoption of implementing regulations on the direct election of mayors and captains will lead to a better democracy and a revival of governance in the Czech Republic. At the same time, the personal responsibility of the mayor, the mayor or the governor and the higher stability of the municipal and regional system are anticipated from direct elections. Moreover, there will be a substantial strengthening of citizens' confidence, which will thus return to the necessary feeling and interest that they are involved in governance and are actually making decisions about them themselves, which should also significantly increase electoral participation. Today's legal order says that the mayor or the governor is elected by the council of the municipality or region from among the members of these councils. The current model of management of municipalities and regions is thus based on citizens of elected councils. The embassies then elect from among themselves the mayor and the council of the municipality, respectively the governor and the council of the region. This principle has been applied in the Czech Republic since the middle of the 19th century, albeit with small exceptions. It is therefore a characteristic of the collective decision-making process for the self-governing authority, where the electorate has no stake in this, and the will expressed by it in the form of preferential votes is no influence, since only the closed group, members of the relevant representatives of the municipality, city or region decide in the present case. The current legal situation is thus completely unsatisfactory, as it promotes collective irresponsibility. The mayor or the chieftain may be restrained by the demands of the members of the council who, however, bear no visible political or factual responsibility for them. Moreover, a proportional electoral system contributes to the unfortunate situation, but it is due to the swaying of faces as a majority. [[19.00 hours]] This outline therefore wants to create room for the establishment of a direct election of mayors and captains to address these problems, so that it will be up to the legislator whether and when it will introduce a direct election, because the constitution will give him room for it. Indirectly elected mayors and governors may not always have public support in the territory of the relevant territorial unit. Someone who is not wanted by the citizens may become the leader of the community or the region only for political reasons and on the basis of opaque agreements. There are cases where the indirectly elected mayor or governor has only a very weak mandate and cannot accept and implement the necessary changes in the public interest. An example of such a condition is the Representation of the capital city of Prague and the Mayor of Prague. During one parliamentary term, there has been a double change in the ruling coalition, in which all three strongest parties have been replaced. As a result, the original Mayor of Prague was also removed and replaced by a new one. All this was done without the inhabitants of Prague having any influence on this situation. At the same time, the indirect elected mayor or chieftain must exercise his mandate in such a way as to please the members of the council who voted for him. It does not have such a strong mandate for action that the locals would welcome, but the council does not agree with. Citizens are also very often dissatisfied with their local involvement in the operation of the community or the region, and thus have a completely slim chance of having a real influence on this and thus have the opportunity to influence governance in their immediate surroundings in any way. The negative phenomenon of the current situation is also that mayors and captains often blame the failure of the electoral program on the council, which will not allow them to do so. On the other hand, the directly elected mayor would go into direct elections with a clearly given programme, whose implementation could be very easily controlled. Dr. Petr Jüptner, director of the Institute of Political Studies, says that people, in addition to strengthening their participation in governance, promise to eliminate local government policies, low transparency, little budgetary responsibility, or clientelism. According to a study The Transformation of city councils in the European perspective supports the introduction of a direct election of mayors, as well as the captains of some 75 percent of respondents in the Czech Republic. In an survey organised by the Ministry of Interior among the mayors of individual municipalities, 65 percent of the mayors who responded were asked for direct selection. The direct choice of mayors, as well as the captains, is a perfectly standard way of choosing in many European states. This type of election is known from countries such as Italy, Portugal, Greece, Cyprus, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Macedonia, Albania and Croatia. For example, a direct choice is applied in the UK, where citizens decide how to vote in a referendum. Furthermore, in Germany and Austria, a direct choice is used in a number of Länder. In Norway and Hungary there is a direct choice in municipalities of up to 10,000 inhabitants. For the Czech Republic, knowledge is very important, which was obtained after the introduction of a direct election in Slovakia. In some parameters, the Slovak model could be inspirational for the Czech Republic as it affects both mayors and captains. It can be described as a clear positive from Slovak experience that the mayor's position is an individual position and is, in this sense, under greater control by citizens who can remove him from office. The practice also results in simpler and more flexible administration of the municipality. Similarly, the position of the President of the Autonomous Region, the equivalent of the Governor, can be evaluated. It was the last elections to self-governing regions in Slovakia that showed that the direct choice is also an effective broad civic policy against negative social phenomena such as the Banskobystrica region and the election of Marian Kotleba by the People's Party Our Slovakia. Also in Poland, there are indisputable positives to the direct election of mayors. This is, above all, a higher level of involvement of citizens in the administration of the municipality and their greater interest in local matters. The assumed position of the mayor carries with it the claims of the mayor's personality. Every candidate for mayor is going to the election with his political agenda, which he fulfils after being elected under the control of the citizens of the community. Following the experience gained so far, the introduction of the direct election of the mayor is assessed positively by both the citizens and the Polish Ministry of the Interior. The need to amend the Constitution for the establishment of a direct election of mayors and governors is mainly due to the fact that, on the basis of the current version of the Constitution, the council of the municipality or region is entitled to decide on any matter falling within the separate jurisdiction of the municipality or region concerned. However, the direct election of the mayor and the chieftain makes real sense only in the situation that certain decision-making powers will be put into the authority of the mayor and the governor, and they will be able to exercise the mandate and governance that are essential in deciding questions within the community or the region. The Constitution should therefore allow this possibility to be granted and thus introduce mandatory legislation by the relevant laws. The petitioners deliberately do not propose a specific interface of competences between the individual authorities of the municipality and the region. The aim of this law is to find consensus on the most basic and general parameter, and that is the choice of the mayor and the governor directly to the citizens. The individual parameters of direct choice and division of competences between the municipal authorities and the region are a matter of further discussions, whose main purpose should be to seek consensus and the early introduction of a direct election of mayors and governors. The constitution also clearly states the possibility that the mayor of the municipality and the governor of the region are elected directly. The only logical condition of the system of the Czech Constitution, which is further mentioned, is that the mayor or the captain, who is elected directly, is elected by a secret vote on the basis of universal and equal electoral rights. The other parameters are intended to entrust the petitioners with a broad public debate aimed at finding a consensus on the individual parameters of the implementing law. The aim of the proposed amendment to the Constitution is to introduce a direct election of mayors and captains, thereby achieving the positive effects that this change brings as opposed to today's indirect choice. Primarily, more responsibility can be expected for directly elected mayors and captains of managed property in the village, in their public appearance and thanks to the increased interest of their constituents and the increased degree of transparency throughout their term of office. Every such mayor and governor will have direct political responsibility for key issues within the municipal or regional administration. The voter will be better equipped to control the selected mayor or the governor, as he will verify the accuracy of his choice. Their election in the next period will not depend on the opinion of the members of the council of the municipality or the region, but only on the opinion of the voters, whose share of governance will also be expressed in reality and indisputably. The directly elected mayor or chieftain also has a much stronger mandate to do their job, which strengthens their authority and enables them to better promote the programme set before voters. With his electoral program, he will go to the elections and then he will be very easy to control how he fulfilled it during his mandate. The directly elected mayor or governor should also have a higher range of powers to take over from today's powers of representatives or council. In the village or in the region it would not be the collective irresponsibleness of the members of the councils, but rather the personal responsibility of the mayor or the governor. As a result, citizens will be much more involved in the administration of the municipality or region. There would also be an elimination of cases where the mayor or the governor is elected someone who has no support for citizens in the assigned territory and is placed on the basis of political agreement in the council. The greatest risk of direct election of mayors and captains would result from an inappropriate division of powers between the mayor or the governor and the relevant council or council, in the event that they block each other, so that there would be stalemate situations. It is therefore necessary to specify precisely within the framework of the implementing act the competence in order to minimise this problem. In addition to the fact that the direct election of the mayor and the governor will clearly strengthen their mandate and authority, but there will also be the introduction of direct responsibility for the performance of the mayor or the governor and the associated greater involvement of people in decision-making processes in municipalities, cities and regions. It will certainly increase the credibility of politics, as the proposed direct election of mayors of municipalities, mayors of statutory cities and regional authorities will strengthen citizens' confidence in politics and will not be able to repeat excesses that cannot be accepted further, that citizens will show free will in democratic elections and that their majority elected representative will end up in opposition. The proposed direct election of mayors and captains will make policy more accessible and understandable for citizens, increase transparency and closer links between citizens and directly elected politicians, which will certainly affect increasing people's interest in politics and, at the same time, greater participation in elections. Of course, the new way of elections must be accompanied by changes in the laws on municipalities and regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You suggested to put it as the first point, just to make sure everything is registered. Mrs Schillerová is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u178	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would still like to place a point following the speech I think that President Jakob, who was recording two prints, if I am not mistaken, I was just watching on the screen, exceptionally, so I should counter-proposal and propose to include points in the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in agreement with the ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty, House prints 274 and 275, as the first two points of this meeting. If I'm not mistaken, I think you suggested a second and a third, so I suggest a first and a second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u179	Thank you. Will I make sure that there is still a proposal for the agenda for this meeting? If this is not the case, we can therefore proceed to the vote on individual proposals. First, I'm gonna go on to give my colleagues a chance to come. [[It's ringing with a bell.]] Sorry, mistake after the holidays, the gong is here, of course. [[It's gonging.]] Now we would normally - I'll just ask for silence - yes, I see a request for everyone's checkout. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your registration cards. I will just ask the President, as this was also a proposal concerning the procedure, so we would normally vote on individual proposals purely in the order that they were submitted. [[Schiller]] You have suggested that the votes on those points proposed by President Jakob should be seen as counterproposals, so if there is no objection - I will ask my fellow Members - if there is no objection, then I suggest a procedure that we first vote on those points proposed by Jakob on the order proposed by you and then possibly... Thank you. So we are clear here, and I suggest, just in case, that we vote for this proposed procedure. I hereby initiate the vote. Who's for the procedure, the order, the Madam President's proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 5, 165 Members and Members were enrolled, for 164, against 1, so that this procedure has been voted on and we will proceed in this way of your proposal for inclusion. We will therefore now proceed to the individual proposals tabled. I will read them as they are here in this approved procedure. I'm just gonna ask for a really careful follow-up of the plaintiffs. There are a lot of proposals, inaccuracies are not the intention, so please contact us. We will be the first to vote on Mr Andrej Babiš's proposal - and I will also point out that we will first vote on the proposal for a new point and, if agreed, a solid inclusion proposal would be voted on. The idea of a point is How organized crime placed his man behind the Director of the Office of Foreign Relations and Information. I'm opening the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 67, against 94, so that they were not adopted. Also Mr. Babiš, the name of the new item Status in Czech Health. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? Who's against it? In voting number 7, 166 Members voted in favour of 66, against 97. The point was not accepted either. Furthermore, Mrs Dostálová's proposal - Solving the housing crisis. Yes? There is a reminder of the vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u180	Thank you. All I have to do is vote number six, vote 'no', and I'm high on drugs. I'm not questioning the vote, I'm just stating for the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u181	Okay, thank you, for the tape. We will therefore proceed to the proposal tabled by Mrs Dostálová - Solving the housing crisis. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 8, 168 Members and Members voted in favour of 68, against 97. Denied. Mr Vondrák's proposal - Energy financing by organisations established by municipalities and regions. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In vote number 9, 168 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 69, against 92. He wasn't admitted. Mr Tomio Okamura's proposal. To the vote again? With priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u182	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I just want to point out that you have now rejected the proposal made by the head of the Association of Regions, Mr. Martin Kuba, a member of the ODS. Just so we know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u183	Thank you. We're good to go. Mr Tomio Okamura's proposal - The government isn't helping people get expensive. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal by the Member? Who's against it? In the vote number 10, 168 Members and Members were again voted in favour of 68, against 98. This proposal was rejected. Furthermore, another proposal by Mr Okamura - Increase in the number of illegal migrants to the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 11, 168 votes cast, for 66, against 98. This point was also not accepted. [[19.20 hours]] Mr Radim Fiala - Kauz Petr Mlejnek and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan's proposal. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 12, 168 were voting, for 67, against 97, and this item was not accepted either. Mr Radim Fiala's next proposal - The Government is unable to deal with the energy crisis. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 13, 168 votes were cast, for 67, against 100, not accepted. Mrs Alena Schillerová's proposal - Energy crisis. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 14, 168 were voting, for 68, against 96, not accepted. Mr Karel Havlíček's proposal - Encrusting energy prices. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 15, 168 votes were not accepted again, for 68, against 92. Mrs Schillerová's proposal - Response to the speech of Minister Blažek. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal. I said, who's against it? In this 16th vote, 167 were voted in favour of 68, against 93, and it was not adopted. Mr Lang's proposal - Reorganization of NCOZ in the context of the Dosimeter case, organised crime of the STAN movement and the role of Minister of the Interior of Austrian. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 17, 168 Members voted, for 68, against 98, they were not adopted. In addition, Mrs Pastuchová's proposal entitled Prognosis of the population development below the income poverty threshold in the next two years. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 18, 168 Members and Members were enrolled, for 68, against 98, also rejected. We approach Mrs Adámková's proposal - transplant law, House press 162. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 19, 169 Members voted in favour of 69, against 97, and this proposal was not adopted either. The second proposal by Mrs Adámková is called the Impact of Energy Prices on Health and Social Issues in the Czech Republic. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the 20th vote 169 Members voted in favour of 69, against 95, this proposal was rejected. Furthermore, Mr Pražák's proposal - Information of the Ministry of Environment regarding the Turów mine. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 21, 169 Members were in favour of 69, against 92, and this proposal was rejected. Mr Pražák's second proposal is called Information of the Ministry of Agriculture, how it will help food producers. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the 22nd vote, 169, for 66, against 98, we were also rejected. Josef Bělica made the following proposal - The credibility of the ÚZSI in the context of international cooperation of the secret services. I have begun the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 23, 169 Members voted, for 69, against 97, was rejected. The next proposal is Mr Strýček's proposal entitled Proposal for an MIT Order laying down specific rules on heating and hot water supply in order to prevent an emergency. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 24, 169 Members and Members were enrolled, for 69, against 97, and the proposal was not accepted. Mr Stržínek's proposal - Help the government to buy energy for cities and municipalities. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 25 169 Members and Members were enrolled, for 68, against 91, also rejected. In addition, Mr Brázdil proposed an item entitled How to go further with pensions for the IRS. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In vote 26, 168 votes were cast, for 66, against 93, rejected. [[19.30 hours]] The following proposal was put forward by Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, and it sounds like Building Savings as assistance in a time of energy crisis. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? The 27th vote was 169 votes for 69, against 95. The point was not accepted. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, too, has proposed Rewarding in Culture following energy prices. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 28, 169 Members and Members were enrolled, for 68, against 96. The point has been rejected. Since it's time for the rotation, I'll hand over the proceedings to the meeting as agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u184	Good evening, honourable Members. We shall continue to vote on the proposed amendments to the agenda. Another proposal was made by Mr Patrik Nacher. This is print number 41, classification of the new item Amendment to the Trade Act. I'll start... [[Mr Nacher is reporting for the floor.]] Yes, Member, please adjust if the President's remark is wrong. Please, what's the point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u185	That's a point that's already there as press 41.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u186	No, there's only one point in this meeting, and then there's an interpelation. That's why it's a new point. So it is an amendment to the trade law that the Member would like to include. I'm registering an interest in the check-out, so I'm checking you all out. I beg you to re-enlist with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has settled, we will begin voting on the inclusion of a new item. Initiating vote on the inclusion of the Amendment to the Trade Act. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 29, 167 were registered, for 68, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Mr Jaroslav Foldyna also wants to include a new item under the title Energy savings in the framework of the operation of the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 30, 168 were registered, for 69, against 92. The motion was not accepted. Mr Jaroslav Foldyna also proposes a new item entitled Parliament's Chamber of Deputies on Terrorism. Initiating vote on the inclusion of this item. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 31, 168 were registered, for 68, against 99. The motion was denied. Another motion for inclusion was made by Mrs Lenka Knechtová. It is the name of the Energy Payment Contribution to municipalities. Initiating vote on the inclusion of the item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 32, 168 were registered, for 68, against 90. The motion was denied. Another proposal was made by Mr Jiří Kobza. It's the Amendment to Law No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 33, 168 were registered, for 68, against 97. The motion was denied. Mr Kobza also proposes a new point, namely the Act on State Holidays, which is press number 16. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 34, 168 were also registered, for 67, against 97. The motion was denied. Mrs Peštová Berenika proposes a new point of compensation for entrepreneurs in Czech Switzerland. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 35 168 were registered, for 68, against 94. The motion was denied. Another point was proposed by Mrs Balaštíková Margita, under the name of the Agriculture Crisis. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 36 169 were registered, for 69, against 96. The motion was denied. Mr Jan Jakob proposes a new point, and it is a Government proposal asking for consent to ratify the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Finland... and here I see it. I'm sorry, but the notes are quite inconspicuous. However, there is a counterclaim from President Alena Schillerová. First we need to place the point, yes. This is really a new point. So the counterproposal wasn't made. It was raised to a firm classification, so it is the classification of a fixed point. I will reiterate that the new item is called the Government proposal asking for consent to the ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Finland to the North Atlantic Treaty. I therefore initiate the vote on the inclusion of this item in the agenda. A firm classification shall be put to the vote subsequently. Who's against it? In vote number 37, 169 were registered, for 149, against none. The motion was accepted. We have thus included this point and now we will be voting on the solid inclusion of a point where a counter-proposal has already been tabled, which is the first to be put to the vote. This was put forward by President Schillerová, who proposes that we discuss this point as the first item in today's negotiations. We all know what we're voting on. Initiating a vote on the fixed classification of the item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Also 169 were registered in the 38 vote, for 51, against 6. The motion was therefore rejected. [[19.40 hours]] That is why we will now vote on the original proposal made by Mr Jakob, which is that this item should be considered as the second item in today's negotiations. I'm just going to erase all the facts that are here, and I'm going to remind you that if someone actually made a statement that we're not in the debate, it's not possible to apply the facts. I am now opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item as item number 2 of today's negotiations. [[Who's in?]] Who's against it? In vote number 39, 169 in attendance, for 137, against none, the proposal was adopted, so this item will be the second on the agenda. The next point was proposed again by Mr Jakob. This is the inclusion of a new point - a Government proposal requesting consent to the ratification of the Protocol on the access of the Kingdom of Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty. We vote to place a point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 40 registered 169 present, for 150, against none, the proposal was accepted. We will now vote on the solid inclusion of the point. First, Mrs Schillerová's counter-proposal to be the second point, this time the second point, because we have one already started. So please, I can't really do that. [[Voices from the diaper that can't be done.]] I'm sorry. I declare the vote confusing. This is how the proposal was put forward, but we have now placed the second point, so it should be logically to the third point or the first point. Therefore, since the second one has already been firmly placed there, it is necessary this time to amend the original proposal for the third one, and the President agrees with this. That's why I'm fixing it. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this item as the third act that awaits us. That means the third point of the meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 42 registered 169 present, for 146, against none, the proposal was accepted. We have therefore included this point, so there is no need to vote another one on this point. I'm going back to the next points. Mr Ryba proposed a new point and it is called Changes in the legislation and equipment of firefighters in view of the experience of fire in Høensko. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 43, 168 present, for 69, against 82, the proposal was rejected. Mrs Fischerová made another proposal. A new point called The Impact of Government Inability to Solve the Energy Crisis on Education. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 44 registered 169 present, for 69, against 91. The motion was denied. Mr Robert králíček proposes a new point - Combating misinformation. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the 45 vote that is now ending, 169 votes were cast, 169 votes were registered, 68 votes against 88. The motion was denied. Another new point has been proposed by Mrs Karla Maříková, under the title of the Discussion on Compensation for Damage after vaccination against Covid disease 19. This is the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 46 registered 169 present, for 65, against 98. The motion was denied. Mrs Marie Pošarová proposes a new point - Tax advantage, an amendment to the Income Tax Act as a new point. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. Those in favor press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In vote number 47 registered 169 present, for 68, against 96. The motion was denied. Another proposal was made by Mr Vladimír Zlínský. This is a new point, and it's called Is our company ready for a possible blackout? I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 48 registered 169 present, for 68, against 96. The motion was denied. I'll ask my colleagues for silence. We will proceed to the vote on a new proposal for a point from Mr Marek Novák, who proposed a point under the title "Newla of the Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances." It says it's nicotine bags. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 49 is 169 present, for 69, against 86. The motion was denied. Mr Martin Kukla has proposed a new point - the government does not deal with expensive energy and has turned its back on people. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this point and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In the 50th vote 169 were registered, for 69, against 96. The motion was denied. Mr Martin Kolovratník has proposed a new point - A threat of a lack of finance for the basic operation of Czech railways and motorways. I'm opening the vote on the inclusion of a new item and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 51 registered 169 present, for 68, against 96. The motion was denied. Mr Lubomír Brož proposed a point entitled Valorisation of parental contribution in the light of dramatic inflation. I'm opening the vote on the inclusion of a new item and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 52 is 169 present, for 68, against 94. The motion was denied. Mrs Helena Válková proposes a new point - The rights of older people during the energy crisis. Initiating vote on this point. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 53 registered 169 present, for 68, against 94. The motion was denied. Mrs Jana Hanzlíková proposes a new point - the impact of an increase in energy and fuel prices on specific population groups. Initiating vote on the inclusion of this item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 54 registered 169 present, for 69, against 95. The motion was denied. [[19.50 hours]] Mr Petr Sadovský proposes a new point - concrete assistance to citizens and reduction of VAT on basic foods - I presume. That's what the MP will do, but I guess it's the right thing to do, if I'm reading it right. So I'm opening the vote on this new point and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 55, 169 is registered, for 68, against 96. The motion was denied. Mr Tomáš Helebrant proposes a point of the Government's inadequate response to the deepening of the energy crisis and the resulting threat to households, industry, health and the operation of the state itself. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 56, 169 in attendance, for 68, against 98. The motion was denied. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová has proposed a new point of weakness in the management of the sittings of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 57, 169 in attendance, for 69, against 95. The motion was denied. Mr Aleš Juchelka proposed paragraph of the MIT Decree and the social and energy non-help of this government. Initiating vote. I said, who's up for a new point? Who's against it? In the 58th vote is 169 present, for 68, against 98. The motion was denied. Mr Karel Rais proposes a point - How will the government ensure that non-production organisations and, in particular, universities cover increased energy costs and the operation of these institutions? I'm opening the vote on the inclusion of a new item and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the 59th vote, 169 present, for 69, against 95. The motion was denied. Mr Jan Síla proposes a new point of the National referendum law. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this point and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 60, 169 in attendance, for 66, against 95. The motion was denied. Mr Petr Vrána proposes a point of village problems in connection with the abolition of free zones. I'm opening the vote on the inclusion of a new item and I'm asking who are you in favour of? Who's against it? Voting number 61, registered 169, for 67, versus 95. The motion was denied. Stanislav Berkovec proposes a point The impact of austerity on the most vulnerable groups of the population. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 62, 169 entered, for 69, against 97. The motion was denied. Mrs Ivana Štefanová has proposed a point on the impact of inflation and price increases on the operation of health establishments. Initiating vote on this new item. Who's up for his assignment? Who opposes it? Voting number 63, 169 in attendance, for 68, against 93. The motion was denied. Mr Jan Síla is proposing a new point of inflation, an energy increase and a collapse of the economy. Initiating vote on this new item. Who's up for his assignment? Who's against it? In vote number 64 is 169 present, for 67, against 96. The motion was denied. Mr Milan Brázdil has proposed a point to prevent the execution of the Member's mandate. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 65, 169 in attendance, for 66, against 93. The motion was denied. Mr. Jiří Mašek proposes a new point of CEZ fully in the hands of the state. - Do you report, Madam President? No. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 66, 169 are registered, for 67, against 87. The motion was denied. Mr Richard Brabec proposes a point of Government Information on the solution of a high price of emission allowances. Initiating vote on this new item. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? In the 67th vote, 169 Members and Members voted in favour of 66, against 95. The motion was denied. Mr. Karel Tureček - Measures of the Government of the Czech Republic in the field of food prices, a new point. Initiating vote on this new item. Who's up for his assignment? Who's against it? Voting number 68, 169 in attendance, for 68, against 96. The motion was denied. Mrs Lucie Šafránková has proposed a new point of increasing the contribution to the care of disabled people, the Social Services Act. I'm opening the vote on the inclusion of a new item and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 69, 169 in attendance, for 68, against 89. The motion was denied. The next point proposed by Mrs Lucie Šafránková is to increase the mobility allowance for disabled people, i.e. the Law on the provision of benefits to disabled people. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 170 in attendance and 68 in favour, versus 83 in favour. Therefore, the proposal was rejected. [[20.00 hours]] Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská proposed the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. I said, who are you up for? Who's against it? In vote number 71 registered 170 present, for 68, against 97. The motion was denied. And if I am not mistaken, the last proposal to change the agenda is from Mr Radek Rozvoral, an item entitled "Search of Constitutional Law," a direct election of mayors and captains. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. I said, who are you up for? Who's against it? In the vote number 72 170 registered for 29, against 101, and the motion was rejected. According to my records, we've dealt with all the proposals for changing the agenda, including new points and so on. Is there anyone else whose proposal hasn't been read? No. So we can proceed to the vote on the agenda as a whole. Initiating vote on the agenda. I said, who are you up for? Who's against it? In the vote number 73 170 in attendance, for 101, against 18, the draft agenda of the meeting was approved. I'm gonna read one more apology first, and I'm filing an application. [[President Schiller is reporting for the floor.]] Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes because of negotiations in the electoral region between 20.00 and midnight today. President Schillerová is now reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u187	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, let me just briefly comment on the outcome of the vote on the items proposed on the agenda for this meeting. There is certainly no doubt when we heard what the individual points contain, that these are points relating to citizens, about companies and about current problems. I'm just gonna let myself poke out the real seed beads. I will not repeat that about Mr Martin Kuba's proposal, the head of the Regional Association, to address energy, to put a racket in relation to the regions. But there were other interesting suggestions. For example, my colleague Patrik Nacher, a Member and representative of the capital city of Prague, repeatedly proposes solutions under the amendment to the Trade Act, which deals with Airbnb, which solves the housing issue on the territory of the city of Prague. And how did Prague's representatives vote? No, no, no, no. Let's just remember that. Prague representatives from the ranks of five-wheelers voted against. Social services. There have been a number of proposals from opposition Members, I will recall, for example, Mr Juchelka, who spoke to social services. I will always remind you, Mr Kaňkovský, of our last term of office, when you were able to convene extraordinary meetings for 200 million or a hundred million to finance social services. And all of a sudden, we don't mind that there's over one billion missing, that the 3.2 billion haven't even gotten there yet, that they're just threatening, and now I have very much information from the Moravian-Silesian region that there's a risk of closing social services. So let's just tell each other how these things stand. But now the biggest seed beads. I have suggested that the speech of the Minister of Justice, Mr Blažek, be discussed here. I appreciated him, his performance. He came out here very factually, very correctly and said simply that yes, it is a problem that he is also among people, he also hears that they complain about energy, that he simply has to do something about it, that simply as a lawyer - he has to look for a way, and not to hear from his colleagues constantly that it cannot, and that otherwise there will be very large social unrest, and he said that political stability can also be threatened. I quote, it was also public in the media. I appreciated it. I only said it was a pity that the Prime Minister or one of the economic ministers, such as Minister Síkela or Minister Stanjura, did not perform with such a speech. And I hope that he will have the strength to assert his opinion on the government, because he is certainly a member of the government. He's the Minister of Justice. When I suggested that we talk about it so we could use the Prime Minister's presence, the five-calice rejected it. Well, the biggest pearl is the rejection of all proposals relating to the ceiling on energy prices. So we've been listening to the long months, weeks and months of five-calice, that it can't be, that it's just a bad way to read today that the Prime Minister is considering and thinking about it, and they're starting to work on it, that there's a lot of energy going on. Of course, at European level, which I know from my experience will be a long time, if there is simply an agreement at all. But many countries aren't waiting for it, many countries are already dealing with it at national level. So you feel like this isn't completely normal? No, that's the reality of this Parliament, where most of it has five-calibers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u188	The President of Radim Fiala has claimed another priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u189	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to comment briefly on the SPD's position on this meeting. Of course, we have proposed a lot of proposals, which also concern the energy crisis relating to social affairs, we want to give money to people, we simply want to draw the government's attention to the fact that the energy crisis is out of control and that there is a danger of deep destruction of the Czech economy, industry and agriculture, that people, citizens of the Czech Republic, will get into almost unsolvable problems. Of course, all of our proposals have been rejected, none of them have been reflected in the agenda of this meeting, and actually remains one of the main points at that meeting, and that is that we want to take 14 billion from the health service, because we need to put them somewhere else, like fighters or something else. So the SPD has voted against the programme, against the approval of the agenda of this meeting, because there is nothing there that would help citizens of the Czech Republic at present. It is the first meeting of the Chamber of Deputies after long government holidays. We thought the government would have some sort of solution by then. We see that there is no prepared one, and it is a great pity for the whole Czech Republic. I will end it with one sentence, which I say now, unfortunately, the Czech Republic will have to go to the bottom, but I feel that this is too harsh for Czech citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u190	President Schillerová is now reporting once more with the priority right. [[Argumenting about the order of the performers.]] Sorry, I'm sorry, I just realized, the MP here told me, Mr. Chairman, President Michálek reporting. I am sorry, Madam President, and thank you for reminding me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u191	Thank you for the floor. I also applied with priority rights to respond briefly. We met here today, and some of us got up early in the morning. [[Noise in the left side of the meeting room.]] For example, my colleagues from Earth came here to discuss the things that are on the agenda. These are things such as the allocation of CZK 14 billion to help citizens, which would otherwise be lying on the health insurance accounts. And this money is supposed to go to help the citizens, because it's easy to promise everyone where we put how many billions without the opposition coming up with where to take that money in particular. And now, specifically, we are collecting money that can help people, and we need it so that we can pay for it. And the second thing we're proposing is that we take care of the security situation in Europe. We approve that there are other Member States, we need to work together on security in Europe, and that is no point, as the SPD says, something that would be unnecessary or useless to act on. The program was announced in advance, it was properly announced. And now that you've shown that you've been here all day, ten hours of meeting, you've been blocked by some political theater. This is a complete contempt for the Chamber of Deputies and by having a predictable programme so that citizens know what is being discussed and can monitor it. The person who wanted to follow the Chamber of Deputies meeting to the announced points this morning, so now he's gonna have to wait for the night, he's gonna have to do something about it, and he's gonna be there at about four o'clock in the morning to watch how the announced points are discussed, because you've been here ten hours defiling on sixty different topics that haven't been included on the program. [[20.10 hours]] So I'd like to ask you to be like the farmers. If farmers worked to decide such a huge length, such a huge amount of time about what they would bet, they would not be planted until now. And the whole Republic is knocking on its forehead the way you're building the Chamber of Deputies here. By your own behaviour in this way, you destruct that parliamentary democracy and create only your own actions for the purpose of narrowing the room for individual Members so that we can discuss something effectively here at all! Please think about it so we don't have to be ashamed of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u192	Now she is indeed President Schillerová and then she is Minister Jurečka. Again, I'm sorry about the mess before. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u193	I wanted to make a technical proposal, so I'm gonna keep it for a while, because I can't leave it unanswered. You wanted to make me cry, Mr. Chairman, through Michálek President, that you came from the land of the breadwinner? No way! That's your job and your duty. You take 14 billion, you rip off, you rip off public health insurance by 14 billion. At the same time, you will collect about 130 billion more this year. You can touch the huge dividend of ČEZ, you just have income. Look how other politicians in other countries speak. German Finance Minister Christian Lindner considers it immoral for the government to keep the money that it withdraws from inflation and from inflation from citizens and companies. Learn from this! [[Applause and screams from the right side of the hall.]] And, Mr President, through Madam President, the programme is always... or the meeting begins after the approved programme. And the fundamental right of each Member is to propose new points. I know you could use us sitting in the corner, shuffling our feet, but you're not gonna get it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u194	Minister Jurečka is now registered with priority right. And I ask for a quiet and dignified atmosphere in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u195	Thank you, good evening. Dear colleagues, it is important that we have a debate here, so people are watching us, so that we can also send out some kind of signal about the intellectual and human plane to the public. No one denies the opposition's right to express themselves, but now you've shown after 11 hours that you can be a caricature of yourself. I saw today 11 hours before the eyes of Andrej Babiš's billboard, which he had almost all over the Republic years ago: Work and stop babbling. The House isn't a blabbermouth. What have you been doing here for 11 hours? What have you been doing here for 11 hours? From Šumava to Tatras reading meaningless texts. The normal person I talk to in my village, which I meet in my neighborhood, can describe the nature of the problem in a few minutes. And not that you're here, you're giving dozens of suggestions from Sumava to Tatras in a situation where there was a clear agenda. And you walk and you tell lies and you haunt! What kind of talk is that people won't have money to pay for energy? It's a lie! It's a lie! [[Speech of disapproval from SPD and YES benches.]] You're lying. You were part of the last government coalition. At least those of you who were part of the Social Committee, so if they are not lying, they must explain to the rest of you how the housing allowance works, which guarantees that every household in the Czech Republic will not pay more than 30% of its income for the cost of living. You don't know? You don't know? It's a principle that's been going on here for years. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Why are you lying to these people? Why are you scaring them? The CZK 4 100 monthly receives 177 000 households in the Czech Republic to cover increased housing costs. Walking and scaring seniors, singles, and saying that they won't have anything to pay for housing costs and higher energy prices is really pathetic. Some of you know, and they're not able to explain it to the rest of you. Madam Secretary might know. Madam Secretary might know how it works to contribute to housing, how the surcharge works. And how extraordinary immediate help works. These people have a social system set up here. You were part of the previous government. You've been editing it, too, and you know that the help and the safety net are here and that it works well. I am sorry that you here at 11 o'clock are using this to cause panic, instead of having a member of the opposition come here to express himself briefly, factually and say: This is something about the program and I suggest it and then I succeed or fail. So I really need to make myself clear here about the way you're lying here. The government is taking steps. The Prime Minister clearly said, and today I witnessed his call with the President of the European Commission, the government is taking steps to find a European solution to find the solution within two or three weeks. And you know that, but you've been coming here for 11 hours to scare people, and you're showing how inefficient this House is because of this opposition. If people in this country were acting like that, working like that at work, it wouldn't be on your salaries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u196	President Radim Fiala is now in favour, followed by President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u197	Well, I'm glad Minister Jurečka said it here, because I think, Minister, if you go - through or you're a minister, I don't have to through - if you go, if you run government help and go to the square in a month or two to talk to these people, they'll tell you how they handle it. So far, while we were there, they told us they couldn't handle it, they got invoices coming, they got bills coming, they couldn't handle it, and they won't be able to handle it, especially when they're astronomical energy prices. And the other thing is that your help can work for a year at the most - and then what? Then the entire state budget will fall because the state simply can't afford it if the energy is as astronomical as it is now. So we're not lying. I'm afraid you're lying about certain things because it's normal. If anyone has a family home, it's not exactly that obvious. So we can still fight each other in some debate, some debate. But I don't think it's that simple. And you know who's gonna judge us? We'll be judged by those people on the street in a month or two, in three, and they'll tell you how they're handling it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u198	President Okamura is now in favour, followed by Vice-President Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's any point in commenting on Minister Jurečka. The citizens have already evaluated you, so I understand the nervousness here, the screams, the desperation, because we have read on the front page that Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the worst trust of all European leaders. Only 22 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic and 78 percent, or 80 percent of the people no longer trust your government. People don't want your government anymore! Get it over with! You're desperate, incompetent. People have had enough. I go to action among the citizens. I listen to those citizens, and people just, even those who voted for you, they're just desperate, too. And eight out of ten people, according to this survey, for example, the last, and it was also in the mainstream, thinks that the Czech Republic is going in the wrong direction under your government. That means people don't want you anymore. They've just had enough. That's all. So you can yell here, Minister Jurečka, whatever you want, but it's at this point - politics is fickle, I say, it can be up again and others can be down, so it just is, but at this point, people don't want you anymore. [[20.20 hours]] That means - and to help. You have plunged millions of people out of the ten million in the Czech Republic into great uncertainty. Millions of people don't know how to make money. That's right! You didn't offer any solutions. You refuse to solve the opposition. We're two opposition parties here. And you don't offer any solutions yourself. Now we're here for today's meeting where you're taking 14 billion crowns of health insurance companies in a situation where people aren't on dental leave, in a situation where months are waiting for different performances. And you're gonna take 14 billion of people out of that health system, and you think that's right. That's totally missing. In my opinion, you miss the reality of most citizens of the Czech Republic. And there's no point in getting upset and screaming. After all, KDU-ČSL is currently moving to a 3% threshold of popularity. So I don't know what most people you're talking about. I don't know, who's a normal person to you, then? [[A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] I don't get it at all. Surely you are not the measure, as I appreciate all citizens of the Czech Republic, including KDU-ČSL voters. But you're not in a situation right now, maybe you will, maybe you'll be in six months, maybe in a year, really fickle, once up, once down, so I know that, and I've been there myself. That's for sure. But you're just not in a position to tell us what to do right now. Because your politics, Minister Jurečka, I already told you last time... You know I know people in KDU-ČSL. Even your members don't want you anymore. They don't want to. They say so. They're desperate of you, Minister. You put the KDU-ČSL party in a situation that you are addicted to the ODS if it takes you into the coalition of the SOLO, because they already know that for your leadership and for this policy of yours, you don't have to go to the House anymore. They're afraid of your KDU-ČSL members. A lot of them are completely wiped out of it. You're bubbling. I know that. That means that's the situation with you right now under your command. You threw down a party that you had about seven percent when I entered the House, and today it's three. Well, I don't think you're in a position to tell us what to do right now. So for me, it's a disaster. Millions of people are being thrown into huge financial and social problems. Unfortunately, the situation will get worse, because by rejecting our proposals for rejecting opposition proposals for changing the agenda, you caused the situation that the last possible meeting, when it was still possible to make some changes before the heat season, because now it's getting colder, now people will have to start drowning gradually, so the last moment that we offered you here as an opposition, so you just threw it in the trash. You threw in the trash, you threw millions of citizens of the Czech Republic into the canal, who won't be able to afford the backup right now, they won't have the energy. That's where the food gets expensive. And you just did that here with the vote. You preferred to take CZK 14 billion from health care to Czech citizens. That's the result of the vote that was here. We have proposed as opposition, and I would like to speak for both opposition parties, financial assistance to people, proposals to address the energy crisis. We've been saying this since spring. We wanted to take advantage of this last opportunity. Maybe that option would have been a little earlier, but you guys took government vacations, so we wasted our time here again because of you. And now you threw it all in the trash. Another meeting, if I don't tell the government the mistrust next week, it's not until next week. There's nothing left to do. So you are fully responsible, and I want to tell you this, for all the problems of Czech citizens not only in health care, if you are voting on strength today in the end, but also for all the problems of economic, social, health that people will not have on energy, fall into debt traps, into executions. There's a 40 percent increase in new executions, he's here under your rule. It's all your fault, that's all I have to say. Everything is caused by the government of ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN. You have full responsibility for everything. It's all your fault. And I'm going to repeat that over and over again in the media. There's no one else to blame. And I must be laughing at the fact that our chairman of Radim Fiala was on TV the other day, and the Minister of your government is asking him, "How would you handle this? So if you don't know how to handle this, and you have to ask the opposition, then go away. Then put it down. Then put it down and leave it to someone else. But don't be embarrassed to ask us on the air - how would you deal with it? That's really desperate. But if you could at least do it for yourself. But you're harassing the whole republic with your desperation. The whole Republic is going into huge trouble, huge problems. And I'm saying, get it over with, 'cause people are desperate about it -- you probably don't go out there -- and they're really sick of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u200	Mr. Vice-President Havlíček, then Minister Jurečka, is now registered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u201	Thank you, Madam President, Madam President. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, you live in a completely different space-time. What are you saying to us here? That in a few weeks, there's gonna be a solution for the ceiling? I mean, it's unrealistic. And I'll explain why. The important thing is that since the beginning of the year we have been urging you, please and ask you to prepare a plan and a solution for all possible options that may occur in the sense of the measure, including that there may come a situation where the ceiling will take place. We've been saying this very strongly since March. And since July, we've been doing nothing but talk about the need to be grounded. You've been laughing at us the whole time. The Minister of Industry and Trade, Síkela, says he won't let us talk to him about anything, that he knows the solution himself, and that we forget that there's gonna be a ceiling. As a reason, it says that it would be unmotivative, that it would not be agreed that they do not do so elsewhere and so on. It's only after we see that it's been cropping up in one country after another, after the President comes out and tells it, after he gets out of the region, where you have a clear majority outside one, and it's quite clear that it's no longer possible to tighten up because it's not just about households, it's not just about businesses, it's about businessmen, but obviously it's also about regional institutions, but we can go further, municipal and so on, so suddenly you come up with this, in a situation where we have 37 times the price of gas that was two years ago, and 17 times the price of energy, I mean electric, than two years ago, that you're starting to think about it might have been cropped up. That's what Prime Minister Fiala said today. And I thank him for saying that for the first time, although a few days ago, Minister Síkela said it was something unrealistic. But it's not really that simple. You have nothing prepared, including the possible nationalisation of ČEZ, including the solution of the Lipske Stock Exchange, including a model that your member Miroslav Kalousek also reasonably designed here. And there's one thing to remember: even if you decide that in the coming weeks, as you say, most of the electricity for next year is sold, if we didn't realize it. What does that mean? Those households couldn't reach it anyway. You've missed a few months, you've let the households, or the companies buy energy, and now you're thinking maybe it's gonna go down. And the highlight of everything is that you say: we are going to discuss it in the European Union. In case you haven't noticed, most countries have done so without the European Union. Let us act in the European Union, but let us prepare our position! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u202	So now I'm just reminding you, because I've been asked such a question, we're out of the debate. We haven't started the point yet. Minister Jurečka with priority rights is now registered, then President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u203	President Okamura is a man who is a convicted liar in a court of law. And he had to apologize to the MEPs he lied about. If he was a guy, he'd apologize at the best time on Facebook's top ratings, but he hung it up heroically sometime in the middle of the night. And now I'm gonna respond to that in fact. He said here, you've all heard that the number of executions is increasing. I would have expected a Member and a President of Parliament's party to follow information as important to the citizens of this country and to look at the development of executions in this country, the data available to this effect. And the number of executions in the half of this year has fallen. [[Ambassador Okamura from the alley calling: New executions!]] This government is making arrangements to make the last end of the House's parliamentary term, together with government and opposition MPs, whether it was Patrik Nacher, or Marek Výborný, who were pulled to succeed. And the action of the graceful summer continues. We're really giving people a chance to quit the executions. September, October, November is the graceful summer of 2. The Ministry of Finance is preparing measures to put an end to financial execution. We at ČSSS are dealing with the end of further executions, which burden people from the point of view of claims in the Czech Social Security Administration. We're taking steps that you didn't recover from the last government you supported. So don't talk about executions. And please don't lie here. Thank you for the touching effort you're taking care of KDU-ČSL. But when I look at the election results, that's what they say about trust. Those aren't polls. When I look at the results in the municipal elections, we've been winning over and over again for years. We won the Senate election as a party last time. I don't know how many SPD senators I've never heard of in the Senate. At the regional level, we have a completely different representation than you. The mandates are calculated, preference is not calculated, electoral results are calculated. So I don't think you need to worry about KDU-ČSL. [[20.30 hours]] And if we look at other measures, let us consider, for example, the development and support of the elderly. Now also the study published by Czech Radio Radio or Czech Radio Plus says that the government is very good thanks to legal valorizations, I underline this thanks to legal valorizations, for which I, as a Member, voted to adjust the valorisation sample, so the situation of pensioners with regard to the effects of inflation will succeed and manage to balance very well. So don't spread fear, you're like a fear businessman. You always scare people, use some untruth, sometimes lie about it, like you lied about migration when you framed our MEPs, and after years you were convicted and you're a convicted liar. So please nicely, I think a normal politician would also get by sometimes and acknowledge that just lying and scaring is not a good strategy, but you have a business political model built on it. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u204	There are a few other applications, but I have some apologies here too, so I'll take the liberty of loading them. So now Jan Kubík apologizes for reasons of family, between 20.30 and midnight, Mr Aleš Juchelka for personal reasons until the end of the day, and Mrs Věra Adámková apologises for work reasons, from 21.30 to tomorrow midnight. I will now ask, with the priority right of President Schillerová, for President Fiala and President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u205	Minister Jurečka, please, you just said exactly the same nonsense as your Prime Minister recently, with all due respect, but he said nonsense at a press conference. It will not cover more than 30 per cent of the actual costs by means of a housing allowance, but table costs, normative costs. So please don't confuse that. Mr Hůle of Man in Need and other nonprofit organizations warned you about this. That's a huge difference. And please don't complain anymore. Yes, I remember the housing allowance, I remember the extra immediate help, you're right. But don't complain about the fact that it's just complicated whether it's him or him. You have decided to choose this institute and this tool as a form of assistance. You could have chosen completely different ways, faster that would have worked quickly, so don't complain now. And I'm the only one who can afford the two numbers that my colleague, Mr. Hendrych, gave me. The first number is as follows: the number of applications and the number of contributions actually allocated in May 2022 are lower than in May 2021. I don't really feel like it. And the second number, it just takes about 20 percent of the households. So that's the help you're talking about so loudly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u206	It is now the turn of President Radim Fiala with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u207	Thank you for the floor. To Mr. Minister Jurečka. I like it when there are no arguments, so you have to say that someone is a liar. At least a professional liar, a convicted liar, a hundred-time liar, and so on. Then Okamura switched the word, and the court said: Yes, but the responsibility is not sanctions. You said it, and you wrote it wrong, so the court told him he had to apologize to Mr. Zdechovský. Mr Zdechovský, MEP, voted in favour of sanctions against the Czech Republic for not accepting migrants from Syria. And it's just like that. And you can sue me, and you can also declare me a million-dollar liar. But you're not getting out of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u208	The President of Okamura is now registered and followed by Minister Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u209	Again, I wouldn't have responded to Mr. Jurečka here anymore, because of course there's no point. But then I'll read what the lawyers have written, because what Mr. ZechovskZdechovský here always adjusts to his own, so I prefer to quote it here. So the court has finally rejected the claims of the KDU-ČSL MEPs of Zdechovský and Svoboda to apologize to them - to apologize to them through television, newspapers and on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies here. That was denied. And he decided that I should publish on my Facebook profile that they did not vote for sanctions against the Czech Republic. Therefore, as I have already said, both gentlemen have voted in favour of the Czech Republic and other EU countries taking responsibility for the resettlement and reception of refugees. They couldn't disprove that in the courthouse. So they actually voted in favour of receiving migrants from Syria. In my opinion, this is punishment for the Czech Republic and sanctions. And the only thing we didn't agree with the judge there was that he said we couldn't call this punishment for the Czech Republic. So, yes, they failed to disprove it - it is in line with KDU-ČSL's position, the reception of migrants from Muslim countries, the migration policy, it all took place there and they failed to disprove it. And as I'm saying, the court has finally denied their claims to apologize everywhere. So now it's the reality. But now that we're talking about the Euro Zdechovský Zedochovsky from KDU-ČSL, that's a pretty good look. I'll read the headline in the media and look it up. He bragged about protecting Čech money. Years ago, however, Zdechovský defended dirty business - one headline is. Another headline: Tomáš Zdechovský, KDU-ČSL, worked for a company a few years ago, which literally took money from dozens of people. Those are the headlines of a story in the media, and you can each find them now. Specifically, it was loans. There wouldn't have to be anything wrong with the loans if the company he represented Zdechovský before he joined politics didn't have one tiny hook that only pulled money out of people's pockets to secure any loan. The Czech Television programme Black Sheep also dealt with the case. This is a public show seen by many viewers who filmed with Zdechovský, who defended the strange practices of CPE Credits of Private Equity, a.s.. CPE claimed a loan mediation fee for its clients, people paid the company, but they never received their loans. So it was a problem. And here's where it'd be good to say this to each other, so we can say this to each other forever. And I, of course, acknowledged that if the court said that the reception of migrants for whom KDU-ČSL MEPs voted, Muslims from Syria, I think it is a punishment for the Czech Republic, it is a sanction for the Czech Republic. Punishment said I couldn't say it like that. Okay, so I apologized for that. Okay, so I misspelled it. I have no problem apologizing if that's how it's decided. But the principle that they voted for the reception of migrants, KDU-ČSL, to Europe and that it harms the Czech Republic is what I stand for, so it is. But now that I have heard the KDU-ČSL President of Mr Jurečka here, but the President knows what will happen next, the people also know that we will have to remember who you are meeting abroad and how it is. So I must say that the people's people attend a regular convention of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which has Nazi roots. As we know, such conventions were attended by Pavel Bělobrádek, President of KDU-ČSL, Culture Minister Daniel Herman, but also MEP TOP 09 Daniel Korte, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marksová Tominová and so on. So let's think about what conventions you go to, who you support. And I don't think it's okay. The Sudeton German landsmanšaft, with which you cooperate, and openly supported by KDU-ČSL, is an organization founded by Nazis, fascists and German chauvinists. In 1949, one of the basic and still valid documents of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, the so-called Eichstätt Advent Declaration, was announced, where, among other things, these requirements appear - I quote: "Our inalienable requirement is the return of our homeland to the linguistic borders of 1937. It is about establishing a sustainable relationship between Germany and its West Slavic neighbours. The readiness of the Čech and Polák to return their homeland to the exiled Němec would also be a prerequisite. All these tasks can only be addressed within the framework of the federalist organisation of Europe." I quote from one of the basic and still valid documents of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, where Members and senior representatives of the KDU-ČSL regularly go. [[20.40 hours]] And let's see who signed this declaration to make it even more clear who KDU-ČSL's friends are. What conventions they go to physically. He physically goes to Germany. So this declaration was signed by Becher, former Kameradschaftsbund, member of NSDAP, Walter Brand, member of the Henlein movement, Brehm, SS-Sturmbandführer, holder of the NSDAP, Hergl, SS-Hauptstrumführer, NSDAP official, Hönig, member of the NSDAP, Nazi journalist, Götz, former associate of the Nazi Secret Service, member of the NSDAP, Lemberg, Nazi and in 1938 member of the Sudeton German Freikorps, Turnwald, member of the NSDAP. And here I had to Google this name to know where KDU-ČSL MPs go, top officials. This declaration was signed by Franzel, a police officer involved in the executions of Czech patriots in Kobylisy, Prague. I'm so sick of where you guys go. It's unbelievers! Zawadil, a senior NSDAP official and associate of the Nazi Secret Service. Schreiber, former Nazi. Preissler, former Nazi, etc. etc. That's where you go. And part of those, you think, of your kind countrymen, as you call them, is the Witikobund organization, which is clearly linked to the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft. I quote from the 2004 report by the Czech Ministry of Interior. Not Okamura. Czech report by the Ministry of Interior from 2004. I quote: Attention is also deserved by the organization of the Sudeton German Nazis Witikobund, which in the Landsmanshaft environment, I quote, spreads anti-Czech views. You're okay with it! Anti-Czech views! It's KDU-ČSL! It's the People's Party! The organization's program, I'm still quoting from that report by the Ministry of the Interior, the organization's program is to undo alleged war crimes committed by allies on the German nation, and to further eliminate lies about German crimes, including the so-called Holocaust culture, as an expression of non-German thought. So I will repeat again what the Czech Interior Ministry writes about the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft, where KDU-ČSL regularly goes. That's where you go to Germany. I'll do it again. The organization of the Sudeten German Nazis Witikobund, which spreads anti-Czech views in the Landsmanshaft environment, also deserves attention. So I'm going to move on to reacquaint ourselves with that, because it seems to me that we've already forgotten a little bit about who the friends of the people's, what politics they're developing, whose side they're on. And it is also: The Sudeton German Landsmanshaft has set up on January 25, 1950 at a meeting in Detmold, where the second basic statement of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft was accepted, which once again claimed legal claim to the homeland and to reclaim the homeland. Well, questioning Benešův's decrees, briefly and briefly. Among the 17 signatories it was once again crawling with former NSDAP officials: Lodgman, Benatzky, Staffen, Wolner, Leibl, Schnewider, Schneider, Diewock, Diewock etc. So, according to the SPD movement, the official representatives of our state shouldn't go to such meetings in your opinion of nice countrymen with a Nazi past. So you guys go there on a regular basis. So it's the People's Party, it's the People's Party, it's the KDU-ČSL. And now there's one more thing I wanted to tell you. So if you keep attacking the SPD desperately here, and I've already said that in the last term, I'm going to read it over and over again today, so hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic are going to play it again, why not, but at the same time it's good for me if you guys are going to go out here to attack something because my goal is not to take 14 billion insurance companies and make health care worse for our citizens. So I have enough time here, because I will fight to the last moment for Czech citizens, so that they have available health care, so that we don't make the health care conditions that they have today worse, and you want to make health care conditions worse and make access to health care worse for citizens worse. That's the content of the meeting you've called today - a meeting based on your proposed law. That means, let's talk about it for a long time, I admit to it, I'm happy to read it over and over again, because my goal is not only to familiarize the public with history and with the current KDU-ČSL activity, when it is to be spoken of, otherwise it is not my priority at all, I repeat it again, it is not my priority, and if we move on, then there is no need to talk about it today, but on the other hand, I say again, we openly report as SPD that we want to prevent you from taking 14 billion health insurance companies, that is what you are presenting here today, because we are opposed to making the availability of health care for citizens worse and against the deterioration of health care conditions. So I've got plenty of time. We can be here on Saturday as much as you want. We can still be here on Sundays. It is up to you only how long we will spend on this topic, à la activities of KDU-ČSL, but if you want to move on, then let us throw ourselves at the next point and we will do our best to prevent it, of course, from making your law, when you are making health care worse for Czech citizens, to make it harder for you, and we will, of course, explain why it is wrong and why the law is simply against people. So now there's actually a match. It's against the people that I read here, and so is your law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u210	Minister Jurečka is now registered with priority rights. I'll remind you that we're in the middle of a debate. Unfortunately, there is no way to report with factual remarks, even if some are interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u211	So I think whoever's following us, I'm going to refer him to the whole sentence and the apology and the apology thing, it's beautifully processed in an article that's on Radiožurnál's website. I suggest you take a look at him. There's the whole sentence, including the justification, it's a good read, and then let the reader take his own view of who's fabulating here and who's twisting some facts and making the atmosphere of fear and then building his own politics on those lies. But it didn't, and I have to respond briefly to the Minister here, because it's important for me to explain to people how the contribution is set up, because it's important, and the Minister here hasn't told the truth, or he doesn't know how the concept works. [[Ms Schiller]] [[Ms Schiller]] It is set that if it is a household that is outside of Prague, whether it lives in a family house or in a rental house or, rent or in a cottage, so if it is not enough 30 percent of the household's income to cover the costs, then over 30 percent of the housing costs, such as electricity, gas, water, rent, so the labour office pays this cost up to the level of normality. Yes, it's normal, but up to its height. And in the meantime, they pay it on the basis of the actual costs that the household has over 30%. When he lives in Prague, it's 35 percent. And what I want to say is that it is important - and I ask the Members not to yell at me and follow the Rules of Procedure here, I also do not do this - that when I started at the Ministry at the beginning of this year, 50 per cent of the applicants were ceilinged by the standard. We've modified the normalizations, and today, 70 percent of the people who ask have paid them in full, up to the full amount of all those costs that are above 30 or 35 percent. Seventy percent of people get their full costs, which exceed 30 percent, paid. That's what's important to see. That's the shift. And now for the normal one. 10. adjust and apply afterwards, it is possible to apply the claim even three months backwards, so for the second half we will increase it again. And I'm saying it's very important because for the family, for the household, it's really a basic certainty that no one ends up anywhere in a situation that he wouldn't be able to pay both higher advances and billing and the housing costs that just grow. So I'm just saying this here to make it clear, because I see that many Members don't know the design of the aid. And the help is absolutely clear and clear in this regard. We return again to the key sentence, which is true and said by the Prime Minister: the basic parameter for the household, which has a housing cost of more than 30% of its income, is 35 percent in Prague, so we will pay the higher costs in full up to the level of normality. And the normality, let's just say it, is about 6 to 20 425 today. [[1000]] This means, for example, a four-member household in Prague can get 12 times 20 400, i.e. roughly 240 000 crowns can get the household in Prague to cover higher costs. On average, we're paying the applicant about CZK 4,118 a month, times 12. That's the amount that goes to the support. The household, which has about two children today, is somewhere over 6,000 crowns a month. This form of support works very efficiently, meaningfully and the standard, there is a certain valve to avoid abuse. So the help is good, it's meaningful, it's not easily abused, and it's not that Jurečka invented it, it's been here a long time, it's been under your rule, we digitized it. Thank you, too, Members, and thank you for your cooperation that week before the first July, we cut off some of the administrative claims that are there. [[20.50 hours]] And I think at this time, I'd like us all to be together, and feel free to say that it was also in your government, that you encouraged us to tell people - well, we don't agree on many things here, we can argue here, there may be emotions involved, but let's say you and we to the households that you need, this form of help here is here. It is not even a government, it is the aid of this state, it is the assistance paid by the taxpayer in the context of solidarity among themselves. I'd like us to agree on that. And to the point that awaits us, I will just point out - please do not say indelicately that 14 billion crowns are being taken here, which will make the comfort of citizens' lives worse. You're about to hear hard numbers, hard data, how many health insurance accounts there are, how the balance sheet has been developing over the last month. We have set up a transparent predictable system of valorising those payments for the future, and it is for the benefit of the citizens, and that money that would be wasted there at this point, we can use it to help in other areas of the state. That's how every household, every family, every businessman, every company would act, if I don't need the money right now, and I can put it somewhere else to help, we'll do it in a crisis situation. That's the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u212	Now signed with priority right, Mr. Chairman Excellent. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u213	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, maybe I'll follow up with Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. All directors of all health insurance companies have made it clear that there is no threat to availability, quality, or scope of health care. That's right, the chairman of the committee clearly illustrates it here. That's what Secretary Válek said repeatedly. You'll hear it again. Then why are you dealing in fear, why are you scaring people? There will be no such thing, and at the same time the money will be used for the benefit of you, citizens, households, families. That's one thing. The second thing I have to respond to, unlike President Tomio Okamura, I didn't pull out the file that I have written to Tomio Okamura's lies about KDU-ČSL, which I could take here now and, like him, read and refute his lies that have been repeatedly told here. Perhaps one comment would be enough for that. What was said here was told by a convicted liar by the court. However, let me say two things. The president of the exiled government in London was the founder of the People's Party, Monsignore Šrámek. So just think of the bizarre nonsense that SPD President Tomio Okamura is making. And the other thing. Representatives of Jewish organizations also attend the meetings of the Sudeten Němec. So if the lies and the manure that sounds out here from the mouth of Tomio Okamura, you're referring to the representatives of these Jewish organizations, that's exactly what indicates who's closest in this House to that brown danger. That's exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u214	No one else is reporting now. This is President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u215	I'm really the tech guy. We're going to talk about health care now, so of course I'm going to say something about it, and all my colleagues, my doctors, so they're going to tell you what's going on with the money. What's left for those insurance bosses, too, isn't it? than to agree with you when they're basically in the situation they're in. Well, we'll talk about that in a minute. I actually have the technical design now. We've been here since nine o'clock, there's been no break at noon, so we'd just like to relax in some way at least a little bit, maybe even ate, probably even you, have prepared the documentation, because we're definitely going to have a very, very long debate over the Public Health Insurance Act. So I'm asking for a half-hour break on behalf of the club of the ANO movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u216	Yes, and I therefore accept this proposal and declare a 30-minute break. That means we'll meet here for the next meeting at 21.24 hours, if I count correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-26-ps2021-033-01-000-000.u217	The honourable Member, honourable Members, the time for a meeting between the members and the members of the YES movement has expired. [[That wasn't a meeting.]] And so now we will continue as approved by today's programme. So I am opening the first item on today's day, and that is
