ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u1	19. Government bill amending Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as amended /German press 201/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I just point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill in the first reading. Before the words of the petitioner, Vice Prime Minister Rakušan, I add my apologies: from 15.00 to 18.00 pm, Mr Svoboda for work reasons, from 1.00 pm to the end of the meeting day, Mr Marek Novák, for work reasons, and because of a doctor's visit from 11.00 to 11.30 pm, Mrs Válková. Before the Prime Minister takes the floor, I will ask for peace of mind. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the bill amending the Senate Rules of Procedure Act. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The aim of the bill is to legally anchor the electronicisation of the legislative process at Senate level, which is implemented through the electronic Collection of Laws and International Treaties and the electronic legislative process. The proposed proposal contains changes relating to the electronisation of the legislative process, the introduction of new terminology and also the obligation to submit an overview of public obligations on draft legislation. Similar amendments are already included in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u3	I apologize, Mr Vice-President, but I will ask that all those who wish to discuss or move before the Chamber. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I've lived a part of my life behind the department, and I'm used to it, but I still thank you. The necessary amendment of more than 60 laws to bring the rule of law into line with the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, including the said Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, was implemented by the so-called amendment law in 2019. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate in view of the different voting procedure were set aside for a separate proposal, but unfortunately this proposal was not discussed in the previous parliamentary term. In view of the advanced time of work on the project, legislation needs to be introduced into the legal system as soon as possible. It is therefore proposed, as you have already mentioned, Mr Vice-President, that the Chamber of Deputies should give its approval at first reading. Thank you for your attention and I'm ready for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u5	Thank you. And now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Ožanová, to take the floor. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, on 13 April 2002, the Government submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a Government Bill amending Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as amended. First of all, it should be noted that the effectiveness of Act No. 222/ 2016 Coll., on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the Creation of Laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and the so-called Amendment Act No. 277/2019 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, is set out on 1 January 2023. This is the basis of legislation enabling the implementation of comprehensive electronization and modernisation of lawmaking. The Government's proposal for press 201 is intended to ensure that the above is reflected in the Senate's Rules of Procedure. [[11.30 hours]] The Rules of Procedure of the Senate were proposed in the last parliamentary term to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and other related laws, which were amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll. However, in the course of the hearing, the draft amendment law was dismissed for procedural reasons and subsequently prepared a separate amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate could not be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and other laws have therefore already been amended and adapted to amendments related to the adoption of Act No. 222/2016 Sb. The proposed changes take into account the fact that the amendments will only exist in electronic form. The proposed provisions refer to the rules of reasoning contained in the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, where the main emphasis is on the addition of documents provided for by this Act to the text of the draft legislation. However, it is explicitly stipulated that only reasoned amendments can be tabled in a detailed debate on the draft Senate bill. By replacing the word "written" with the word "written," the use of this term in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate is united. Senators will have the opportunity to get acquainted with the proposed amendments to the Senate Bill and to take a stand on them. There will be a refinement of the procedural procedure in situations where there is a vote on amendments which only formally correct legislative technical, grammatical and letter errors. In these situations, it is legitimate that voting on proposals of this type can be carried out without interruption of the Senate's deliberations. Another of the proposed amendments processes a new obligation to submit, at the same time as the draft legislation published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, a so-called informative overview of the public obligations arising from the draft legislation. This obligation shall also apply to amendments or international treaties which are submitted to the Senate. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies also contain a similar amendment. Through the electronic law-making system, it will be mandatory to make proposals containing the text of the bill itself, the draft legislative measure of the Senate and the draft Senate bill, its amendment or justification. It is also envisaged to maintain the possibility of making oral amendments, with the need to insert them immediately into the electronic law-making system. The proposal assumes that this system will be linked to the Senate information system, which will serve to distribute the authorized version of individual senators' proposals and their publication. The proposal should guarantee that senators always have access to the actual texts of the laws at different stages of negotiations. Implementation of the amendment of the text of the legislation is entrusted to the President of the Senate because of its specific role in the legislative process. In the case of the adoption of legal measures in the Senate, the President of the Senate is in principle in a similar position to the President of the Chamber of Deputies in the adoption of laws. In view of the scope of the entrusted competence and the requirements for specific expertise for its performance, it is not possible for the President of the Senate to exercise that competence himself. For this reason, synergies are highlighted in the role of the Senate Office. As in the case of the Chamber of Deputies, it will, of course, be possible for the President of the Senate to delegate the exercise of the powers in question to the Vice-President of the Senate, leaning on Section 34 of the Senate Rules of Procedure Act. The explanatory memorandum states that the economic and financial scope of the proposed legislation on the state budget, other public budgets and the business environment of the Czech Republic is described in the context of the overall solution in the explanatory memorandum to the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. The transitional provision addresses the procedure for the completion of the examination of draft law in the draft Senate Act and the draft legislative measure of the Senate which has been passed or submitted before the date of application of this Act, in accordance with existing legislation. The effectiveness is proposed on 1 January 2024 following the parallel amendment of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, the following print 202, which proposes a shift in the effectiveness of the Act also to 1 January 2024. The proposer asked the Chamber of Deputies to agree to the proposal at first reading in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies for reasons of urgency. The urgency of the changes to the Senate's Rules of Procedure was justified by the already ongoing electronicisation of the legislative process. In view of the ongoing work on the development of the eLegislativa system, I consider it necessary to fix the legislation of the legislative process in the Senate so that it can be reflected in this system. I thank those who listened for their attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u7	Thank you and allow us to open with this the general debate that she has signed up for - I do not see any priority right - Mrs Marie Pošarová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u8	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, the House Press 201, which we are discussing right now, is a government bill amending Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as amended. Applicable Law No 222/2016 Sb. and so-called Amendment Act No. 277/2019 Coll. addresses the shortcomings of the current state of law in the area of lawmaking and lawmaking. These two legislations are effective from 1 January 2023. While the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and other related laws were amended with the adoption of Act No. 277/2019 Coll., in the case of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, no amendment has yet been made and the proposal has not been discussed in the past period. This bill will therefore ensure that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate are amended to comply with the legislation already adopted. Access to national law is now regulated by Act No. 309/1999 Coll., on Collection of Laws and on Collection of International Treaties, as amended. The issue and publication of legislation and international treaties is based on a traditional form of official collection of legal regulations in paper form, which also constitutes a single legal binding source of information on legislation. Current practice lacks a modern tool for drafting legislation, which would be based on the use of accurate data on the text of legislation in full. It should respect the natural form of legislative work, link the entire legislative process from the beginning of the work to the publication of legislation in the Collection of Laws, increase the clarity of the legislative process for lawmakers as well as for those who follow it, and strengthen the transparency of the legislative process. [[11.40 hours]] It should contribute to the quality of legislation by enabling the systematic application of legislative rules and the unification of legal terminology, facilitating compliance with them for all stages of the legislative process. It will allow the automation of part of the formal law-making processes and provide greater scope for law-makers to focus on the content of legislative proposals. The amendments proposed in the Senate's Rules of Procedure relate, on the one hand, to the electronisation of the lawmaking and the inclusion of the full text in the present, approved and published text of the law, and, on the other, to the clarification of the process of drafting the law and to the introduction of uniform standards of lawmaking and justification. By building modern instruments for the development and consultation of legislative proposals within the framework of the eCollection and eLegislative project based on work with consolidated wording of the legislation, an open database of texts of legislation and a single registration and recording of amendments to legislation, there should be increased clarity and clarity of legislation, as well as to facilitate orientation in the process of discussing proposals for changes in inter-departmental commentary proceedings and consultation in both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The SPD shall support the draft law on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. However, on the one hand, you are asking the Chamber of Deputies, by this press, that consent be given to the bill at first reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, but at the same time as the 202 press, which we will discuss subsequently, you delay the effectiveness of Act No. 222/2016 Sb. and Act No. 277/2019 Coll. January 1, 2023, January 1, 2024. I believe that if we used the shortest possible time limits for further discussion of this press, then the need for a reduced legislative process would not be necessary. But be that as it may, it is your coalition decision to use this accelerated process unnecessarily often and I will leave it to those who follow the law making to make their own opinion as to why it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u9	Thank you and Mr Vladimír Balaš has made a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to support the proposal that we are discussing. As for the question of postponement, I would just like to add that private firms have been working on digitising our legal order since the 1990s and it is clear that the debt that the state is due in this area cannot be caught up within two or one years. So I would ask you to be lenient so that we can really postpone the law just so that we can do everything right so that we can enter the next century. We have a legislative process that is a remnant of the 19th century, but given that we have thousands of legislation adopted since 1990 each year, the system must be clear and properly processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u11	Thank you. The rapporteur, Ms Ožanová, was also enrolled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, press number 201 appears to be problem-free, and it cannot be agreed with the paragrafo text. However, the problem is a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, namely the provisions of § 86 para. 3 which I would like to quote so that I can better explain the inadequacy of the proposed proposal. Paragraph 86 (1) (a) is replaced by the following: 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies read: "A part of the bill's proposal is an explanatory note which justifies the principles of new legislation. It will assess the legal situation in force and explain the need for a new regulation in its entirety - the general part - and the individual provisions - a special part. The explanatory memorandum shall also include the estimated economic and financial scope of the proposed adjustment, in particular the state budget, the budgets of the regions and municipalities, and the assessment of the compliance of the draft law with the international treaties referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Act. 10 Constitutions and Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic." Now to the point itself. The explanatory note states... [[He's shutting himself down because of the noise from the left.]] Again, because I was probably not heard: The explanatory memorandum states that the economic and financial scope of the proposed legislation on the state budget, other public budgets and the business environment of the Czech Republic is described in the context of the overall solution in the explanatory memorandum to the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. I understand that the plaintiff did not even bother to make Ctrl+C and Ctrl+V and merely stated that he should test the Members to see if they could look? Yes, I can look, and I found that I have to look not at the previous but the previous parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, 2013 to 2017, into the press 646. At that time it was a chapter of Benefits and Costs, with several variants being developed. I'm sorry, I don't want to study all the options at the time, I'm interested in today's version of what costs have been incurred, what costs still have to be incurred. The rapporteur's work and Members' work are not separate surveys to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. in accordance with the law laid down in the explanatory memorandum. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law is intended to include the anticipated economic and financial scope of the proposed regulation, in particular the requirements for the state budget, budgets of the regions and municipalities. Does this or doesn't this adjustment have any effect on the budget? Probably does. The influence, ladies and gentlemen, was to be read in the explanatory report. However, I have not found this, but I have read about the obsolescence of the means for law-making and also about the low transparency of law-making. In this case, I am in complete agreement with the appellant. Obsoleteness and non-transparency are apparent from this proposal, but not given by procedure. It is given by ignoring the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, forgive me as rapporteur for actually reading the explanatory notes to the law. However, this ignorance of lawmaking does not change the need for law. And as I said in the beginning, I have no problem with paragrafo. I would like to secretly hope that this speech will make someone read the explanatory notes, considering whether they are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Despite this unusual error for me, I dare to be constructive and support the acceptance of the proposal at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u13	I thank the rapporteur and ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? Mrs Pošarová still shines on the board, but I already have her zeroed on the monitor, so if possible, I would like to reset it on the board as well. And before the debate is over, Mr Vice Prime Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to take advantage of the fact that I would react, if necessary, after the end of the debate as such, so that, if necessary, the rapporteur's response is still possible, so I am going into the debate at this point. It is a bit difficult, my colleague, through the President. This is a complex project, which creates all the e-collections, e-documents, which is financed in the total value of CZK 603 million, of which CZK 390 million is paid from the IROP, but in terms of financing it is not possible to extract one part of the Senate Rules of Procedure and to calculate isolated costs related to the Senate Rules of Procedure as such. Complex e-documents and e-collections are created. It's really something that can't be pulled out, and that number as such might not be accurate and could be misleading. [[11.50 hours]] Complex eDocuments and e Collections are created. It's really something that can't be pulled out, and that number as such might not be accurate and could be misleading. I understand that you are asking at this point because, of course, we have today's meeting divided into the Senate, which we need to discuss in such a way that it is prepared for the needs of the Senate as soon as possible. Then we'll talk about the collection itself. I wanted to forgive myself for the political comments, because, to be fair, they would rather be directed to the political party that does not already sit in the Chamber of Deputies. Nevertheless, the whole government is responsible. And the condition in which we inherited the esbírka, I would not wish that on anyone. So the rush we've just begun is not due to our inactivity, but it's due to the absolute neglect of this preparation by the former head of the Ministry of the Interior of the former government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u15	Thank you. The rapporteur shall be given priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for his response. Of course, I did not expect an accurate estimate of the costs, but the figures he gave would be sufficient if they were written in the explanatory memorandum. Let's face it, it was written in the explanatory memorandum, Mr. Ambassador, look for it in some other last period and see if you can find it. However, if you could just put in the total cost, you can't exactly extract it. This is just one narrow segment. All you had to do was write it down. So I suppose that's the next time. I have to say, frankly, that I have already communicated with a relevant member of the Ministry of the Interior, who I have explained to whom it is necessary to respect the House's rules of procedure, and it is appropriate to write it down. I understand it's customary that no one reads it, but I think it's appropriate to read the reports sometimes, to read the reasoning. As far as the last term is concerned, I myself was a member of the subcommittee on the digitalisation of justice and eSpis. At one time he was chaired by colleague Jakub Michálek, then there was Ondra Profant. I have to say that across the political spectrum, the Ministry of the Interior has been trying to make progress on this issue. There was no telling who was from the coalition, who was from the opposition. There was a uniform procedure. I understand that this is difficult, but it is necessary to move on. It is true that we will no longer write everything by hand, that we are now writing on computers, and unfortunately, the digitization is necessary and there have been some delays. But I would never blame the Ministry for that, because IT contracts are a difficult thing, and if we want to spend effective state resources, it takes some time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u17	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? If no one, then this... Sorry, I can still see. Yes. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u18	Thank you. I've been logged in before. Mr President, fellow Members, the House Press 202 is a Government Bill amending Act No. 222/2016 Coll., on Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on Creation... [[Reaction from the O.R.: This item is not currently under discussion.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u19	Thank you. The Vice-President is still applying for priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, only a brief response to the Minister of the Interior, although both the press are connected, because there is an extension of the deadline to that January 2024. Mr. Secretary, this has been extended to January 2022, January 2023. I think that e Collection and legislation has been going on for many years and I will be able to keep my fingers crossed so that we don't meet here again in a few months with an extended deadline, because Members are here for the proposal, and I think very well, they have claimed that one year must be the verification operation. And if we hadn't done it at this point, there wouldn't be a verification operation, and we practically couldn't handle it when it's finally done. So that's what I was gonna say. And I'm sure we'll support it in the '90s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u21	Thank you. I see that no one is reporting to the general debate anymore. This concludes the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in speaking? The rapporteur? Not interested. Thank you. And so we will now decide in accordance with § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I've already taken the liberty of doing the gong. In the meantime, I shall make a motion for a resolution. [[There's an application for check-out from the O.R.]] Yes, I'll check you out first. The motion for a resolution is therefore the following: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Parliaments of the Press 201 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'll wait a little longer for my colleagues to come. I hereby initiate the vote. All in favor. Who's against it? In the vote 54 registered 130, for 130, against no one, the result accepted. I am therefore initiating this detailed debate, in which I do not see anyone who has been enrolled. If no one is entered into a detailed debate, I will conclude this detailed debate and ask the Minister again if he is interested in the final word. The rapporteur? Neither do I. In this case, we can therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I've begun. In the meantime, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as amended, pursuant to House Press 201, as amended.' I therefore initiate the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 55, 140 registered, for 138, against no one, the result was accepted. I thank the Vice Prime Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and the discussion by saying yes is over. Thank you. We can go to the next point. Since I'm supposed to take turns at 12 o'clock, I suggest we take turns now to get my colleague to start the whole point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-005-019.u22	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with point number
