ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will check you all out first and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. So I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. So far, I am registering two Members with a replacement card, with card number 27 today, Mr Robert Stržínek and Mr Karel Smetana, Mr 35 will vote with card. I also say that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Mrs Věra Adámková for health reasons, Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Vladimír Balaš for health reasons, Margita Balaštíková for work reasons, Jan Bauer for work reasons, Josef Bělica for work reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for health reasons, Stanislav Blaha for health reasons, Richard Brabec for health reasons, Jan Bureš for health reasons, Oldřich Černý for health reasons, Jan Farský - for no reason, Milan Feranec for health reasons, Josef Flek for work reasons, Stanislav Fridrich for work reasons, Golasowská Pavla from 13.30 for work reasons. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you in part to keep your voice down so that you understand what I'm saying. Furthermore, Mr Karel Haas apologizes for medical reasons, Šimon Heller for family Ivo, Igor Hendrych for health reasons, Jan Hofmann for work reasons, Jílková Marie for health reasons, Klára Kocmanová for health reasons, Josef Kott from 9.30 to 11.30 for health reasons, Věra Kovářová for health reasons, Jan Kubík for health reasons, Petr Letocha for health reasons, Taťána Malá for work reasons, Jiří Mašek for health reasons, Jiří Navrátil for work Wenzl, Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš for health reasons, Nina Nováková for health reasons, Zuzana Ožanová from 13.30 to 14 hours for family reasons, Mrs Jana Pastuchová for family reasons, Olga Richterová for health reasons, Pavel Růžička for reasons of foreign travel, Jiří Strýček for health reasons, Julius Špičák for work reasons, David Štolpa for health reasons, Karel Tureček for Vondrák reasons, for family reasons, Milzk for Válková, for health reasons Vlová for reasons. The following government members apologize today: Martin Baxa for health reasons, Mikuláš Bek for work reasons, Pavel Blažek for work reasons, Jana Černochová for work reasons, Anna Hubáčková for health reasons, Martin Kupka for health reasons, Helena Langšádlová for work reasons, Jan Lipavskýý for work reasons, Zdeněk Nekula for work reasons, Zbyněk Stanjura for work reasons, Michal Šalomoun for work reasons and Válek Vlastimil, also for work reasons. We should start today's meeting by discussing the items under the approved agenda. Anyway, I am now registering three applications for the agenda, in order: first Mrs Alena Schillerová, then Mr Jan Jakob and then Mr Karel Havlíček. So I'm going to ask President Alena Schillerová to speak on the agenda. And I will ask you, colleagues, before I give the floor to the Member, that those of you who want to discuss go to the lobby to understand what the Member is saying. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me, on the basis of the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development which it adopted at its second meeting, adopt the resolution that it has elected the Committee Chair, Ms . Klára Dostálová - asked for the 6th meeting item Proposal for confirmation by the Chair of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as item 1, if that is correct. Furthermore, allow me, on the basis of the resolution of the Defence Committee, which I have chosen as my President, Mr Luboš Metnar, to apply for the inclusion of the item Motion for confirmation by the President of the Defence Committee by the Chamber of Deputies, as item 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. I just want to ask, Madam President: we have this point prepared for today, whether you will agree that we would take it as one point, that is to confirm the Presidents of both committees, if there is no contradiction with the proposal for this procedure, I would take it as one point of confirmation from both Presidents. Given that I do not see a contradiction with this proposal, I will take that as one point of confirmation by these Presidents. Thank you. Mr. Chairman Jan Jakob will now be on the show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a confession to make this morning. [[A disturbance from the left side of the hall.]] I'm 40 years old this year, and as old as I am - sorry, now I don't know what I heard, don't judge me in your own way - as old as I am, I'm not surprised. What happened here yesterday, I think I'm going to write down in my diary, because since this morning, the opposition, especially the SPD, has surrounded it for so long, when we as a government coalition offered something that wasn't customary, a great deal of sympathy to the opposition... that there will be a so-called opposition window here on a regular basis, so the opposition has spent so long building up itself. [[SPD riots, screams.]] I don't have a diary, so I'm not going to write it down, but maybe politicians should write a new term in their vocabulary, I don't know about Okamurův - I'm sorry to my colleague Hayat Okamur - it's not his fault - Okamurův's loophole, how to build, how to build, how to build myself. And what have you achieved? Why did you reconstruct? We're not stupid, we know that you're obsessing because you don't want to allow the correspondence choices of countrymen from abroad. And what have you achieved? That the correspondence choice is the first point today. Congratulations, Okamurův's loophole. So that's what I wanted to point out when I approved the adjustment to the program, that you have achieved that point, originally 7, the Senate amendment to the election, is the first point. [[9.10 hours]] However, we respect my colleague Schillerová's proposal. It is clear that colleagues who were in the previous government could not be elected as committee chairmen, so we fully respect that. We will support this to confirm them in the positions of committee chairmen, and I firmly believe that this will happen, that the opposition will not use this loophole and will not start building again at this point. I sincerely look forward to discussing the correspondence choice, where we will also tell ourselves why you are so obstructed, and it is quite clear. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u5	Mr President, before I give the floor with the priority right to Radim Fial, just for the record. I said it yesterday, I say it today, and I say it to all the presidents of the MPs regardless of whether they are from the coalition or from the opposition: this time is meant to sound proposals for modifications and changes to the agenda. I'm asking for both you and everyone else. Do not take advantage of the right of priority, and in this first half hour, proposals are actually meant to be made to modify the agenda. Move everything else into the discussion. It goes for everyone, thank you. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr President, fellow Members, I would just like to respond to Mr Jakob's words. Of course, they're turning it around completely because we've debugged ourselves. It's not true, you've brought everything to our attention, and when we come to the opposition window at 6 o'clock and we know that we don't have a single law, it's not logical for us to continue to be here to approve your laws on the pension world union and other nonsense and some nonprofits that we have there. So it's not Okamurův's loophole, it's a coalition loop, but it's like you said to the editor on Czech TV, Mr. Editor, here's your show, but you're not gonna be there. It's the same thing. So why would we be here? We got ready for today, we knew there'd be a correspondence call. I'm saying, frankly, that the SPD movement is interested in pervading two of your laws that are harmful to this country and society. Firstly, it is a pandemic law that we are going to build, which is an unprecedented attack on the freedom of people in this country, and then it is a correspondence choice that gives huge opportunities to manipulate elections and reduces citizens' credibility to elections and to elected people. [[Trust?]] I can document this in many states, in the United States of America, we have examples in the election of the President, in Austria, in the election of the President, where even the Constitutional Court canceled - this would not have happened here, I understand - or in France, where they simply had to cancel the correspondence option completely. They had to shut it down because it was such a scam that the world and the coalition didn't see it. Thank you, Mr. Jakob, for your theatrical insert. We're ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u7	With all due respect for your priority rights, these are the contributions that are part of the open points and the debate on correspondence choices. In that case, if my colleague Jakob wants to respond... but truly, this is half an hour for proposals to change the agenda of the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u8	Mr President, I am so sorry. I totally understand what you're saying, but I just have to react very briefly. The President here said that the correspondence choice is a harmful proposal. I really do not think that the electoral rights of our countrymen abroad are harmful. Unlike the SPD, I appreciate their opinions and voices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u9	I would be very pleased, colleagues, if you respect the Rules of Procedure. I've pointed that out, I can't take away your right to speak with priority rights, but I'm pointing out again that it's supposed to be on the agenda. I'll read an apology. Mr Miloslav Janulík apologizes from today's meeting. I will now ask for Mr Karel Havlíček's speech. Mr Patrik Nacher will prepare for the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to propose a point which should be called Covidová's support for entrepreneurs. Please, I don't want to take this conflictingly or confrontationally. I've got five minutes here, I don't want to delay anything, and if we go to that point, it's probably a matter of tens of minutes to figure out whether or not entrepreneurs get support. We mean, of course, covido. It's boiling in the business sector, I understand. I understood that when we, as a government, were under opposition pressure to give covido support quickly, to give it to all those who are limited and to give it to the maximum possible level, we discussed even 100 percent. The last covido support for November and December was prepared by our government. We've handed over the COVID support 2021 and the Uncovered Costs of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I'm saying again, I'm not going to take it in a confrontational way: Please, let's tell the entrepreneurs whether there will be any support, if there will be zero, as it will be with the compensatory bonus, let's tell them whether it will be reduced from the two programs to one or if the aid intensity will be reduced, but there is something that needs to be said. I understand that the correspondence option will be discussed, but today's priority is somewhere else. Since December, these entrepreneurs have been without any support and expect it, all the more so, that the individual members of the government clearly have different views on this. I understand it, it's a five-wheeler, everyone's looking at it from a different perspective. Minister Síkela claims that it would be better if the aid was already intended to go to specific segments, Minister Kupka responds by wanting to satisfy all those who have not been satisfied in the past - in my view, those who are limited here, but I understand that Vice Prime Minister Bartoš spoke very reasonably this week, who stressed on his Twitter account that the support of COVID 2021 and the Uncovered Costs should be in a certain version that is being prepared. We said, or the government said it might be this week, we were impatiently waiting for a government press conference where Prime Minister Fiala spoke, saying that they needed one more to two weeks. So we're in a situation where entrepreneurs have been without support for three months. If it's in two weeks, then the closest possible support will be - and that's real time - sometime at the end of March, that's five months after they've been limited. Let's have a few dozen minutes to discuss this, and please, imagine what this support is going to be for, if any, how much it will be, and what businessmen are going to be prepared for. At some point, it's better to stand in front of the companies and say, "There will be nothing." I'd understand because it could be the Treasury's request. I understand less if this request is defended by the Ministry of Industry, which is intended to defend the interests of entrepreneurs. Usually, it's always a compromise, but it's better to say, you're not gonna get anything from us because we're gonna save money than keep pushing it around and saying, "Maybe there's gonna be something, maybe there's not. Entrepreneurs have to start working with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u11	Mr. Ambassador, just so I understand it, you're asking for a new point, and I'm asking if you want some solid assignment or just a new point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u12	I'd like to ask him for the points that were presented here at the moment, that's right at the beginning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u13	After fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u14	After that point, actually, what President Schillerová said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u15	After the election - well - confirmation of the Presidents. Okay, thank you. [[9.20 hours]] Mr Patrik Nacher will now speak for the inclusion of a new point and then his second application for the inclusion of paragraph 41. First application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it is not the inclusion of a new point, that point is in the programme, but I would like to put it in place. It's press 34, Act No. 222/2002 Coll., on Financial Arbitrator. This government said it would be consumer-friendly, that it would support this legislation. Here comes a proposal that I think we can go through relatively quickly. It is an extension of the options to address the financial arbitrary as an out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. This extension concerns non-life insurance, because today it can only cover life insurance, non-life insurance, and supplementary pension insurance with state contribution and supplementary pension savings. Then there are some other things in relation to this - I did the legislative work with the Ministry of Finance, with their legislative officials, I suppose there is some continuity, so the government will not question the legislative quality, although it is a parliamentary proposal. After all, the government has given you a neutral position, the current government, so I would like coalition MPs here - I will not read the whole of it, I will keep it for reading if you include it - but I will only read you the basic one paragraph of the government's position to understand that the government is in principle in agreement with this, although officially neutral position: "The government is aware of the problems posed by the current fragmented resolution of out-of-court consumer disputes in the financial market, when the jurisdiction of the resolution of these disputes is entrusted to several entities" - that is what we all want to unite in order to fall logically under the authorities where it belongs, that is under the financial arbitrary - "and the way of resolving disputes is different for individual entities." Yes, otherwise it is dealt with by the financial arbiter, otherwise it is dealt with by the Ombudsman of the Czech Insurance Association. "This fragmentation is particularly noticeable in the case of insurance disputes where two different authorities are responsible for their resolution in the event that both life and non-life insurance is agreed under one insurance contract.' Two different organs! We are in this situation, and I hope that both the opposition and the coalition want to help consumers in this case. "This situation certainly does not contribute to a clear understanding of the consumer's approach to resolving its disputes with the provision of services on the financial market, nor to legal certainty in this area of consumer protection. The government considers the proposed solution to the current situation..." Calm down, please! "The proposed solution to the current situation is considered by the government to be systemic and universally beneficial for the area concerned." For that I am glad, for this Government's position, although overall, the government's position is neutral. In addition, there are four other suggestions from the government concerning the extension to consumer credit at the moment when there is a guarantor. We can easily resolve this in the second reading with an amendment, because my original idea was to really extend it to things that are not there now, but there is no reason to delay and delay such a thing. So I would like to place it as a point today after the points that are agreed, that is, after the confirmation of the committee chairmen, if I understood correctly, in an alternative way before what Karel Havlíček reported, after him and after the correspondence choice. So much for this proposal. I've got 30 seconds left, and I'd like to take advantage of my colleague Jakoba here, to read him what I read on Whatsapp last night, so it's not my idea, but I think it's pretty precise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u17	Mr. Ambassador, I was mild at the beginning of the trial, and I really don't want this to become a debate. Please note: complete the speech, but I'll take the floor next time if you don't speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u18	It's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u19	Just for the record. It will concern everyone regardless of who is from the coalition or from the opposition. Finish it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u20	When the TOP 09 was in opposition, there was a complete master in obstruction. She said she was defending democracy. When the TOP 09 is in government and the opposition is obstructing, it is said to be a threat to democracy. That's how your constituents feel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u21	Now with the priority right of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová on the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u22	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I would like to propose, because there was a break yesterday when we could not continue the negotiations - I know that today the Minister of the Environment is excused, for which reason I would like to put forward the items of the Minister of Industry and Trade for today, following the confirmation of the Committee Chairs, or after the proposal by Patrik Nacher, I would like to ask that each proposal be put to a special vote, and I would like to place the items of the Minister of Industry and Trade there, namely paragraphs 57 and 58. At paragraph 57, it is the House's press 91, paragraph 58 is the House's press 92. I would then like to propose a further inclusion or, if necessary, a vote on paragraph 81, which is the point that we were talking about on the grémium under press 98e. I think I have said this in sufficient clarity for the Vice-President, and I think that we could discuss these House Presses properly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u23	Thank you. Mr Radek Rozvoral, who now represents the President of Radim Fiala, is now in favour of the agenda, because he is absent. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear government, allow me to propose an extraordinary point at today's House meeting entitled Information on the Government's termination of restrictions and division of society into two categories. I would like to say a few words about the question of when the government will finally stop making people from being vaccinated, but healthy people of the second category who are not allowed to enter restaurants, cinemas, theatres, to ban them from entering sports halls, swimming pools and the like. First, I will return to the beginnings when the government began to deal with the advantages of vaccinated persons in the context of covid-19 disease. All these activities which violate the fundamental rights of citizens and freedoms arising from our constitutional order, as defined in Constitutional Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and further from resolution No. 2/1993 Coll., the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as amended, began to assert themselves at a time when Europe was hit by the hysteria associated with the covid-19 pandemic and individual governments under the baton of the European Union began to promote the introduction of cod passports. So they officially signed up for people to start sharing into two groups. The first group consists of citizens who were obediently vaccinated against covid-19 disease, and they were also offered various benefits, allowed for seamless travel, entry to sports and cultural events and a number of other benefits. The second group from the point of view of supporters of this division is the bad group that does not want to submit, so they are made as many obstacles as possible in everyday life as possible, such as the ban on traveling without the corresponding covid passports, going to the pub for beer, visiting sports grounds and the like. Simply put, these so-called second-rate citizens are restricted by government restrictions and mandatory measures in a significant and possibly lasting way. By this illegal act, the government is making a significant contribution to the division of our society, making good relations between people in their employment, the pursuit of leisure activities, their life in municipalities and cities, or in society as a whole. [[9.30 hours]] In the SPD movement, we refuse to favour one group above another, for whatever reason. In several cases, the Supreme Administrative Court has made it clear by its decision that it does not want a double standard. The important thing is the infectivity. The same applies to those tested or those who have suffered from the disease. The completion of the vaccine alone cannot be the only condition. Last year, for example, the Supreme Administrative Court annulled the health department's measures because the Vojtěchův Office did not include the results of antibody tests in May 2021 in an offer of ways to prove the infectivity for internal entry. These develop the body after losing the disease and their sufficient levels prevent the outbreak of the disease. The judges stated that the Ministry's decision was not within the limits of the law. I hereby take the view of a number of lawyers that any measure which would confer an advantage only on vaccinated persons would be discriminatory and, in the context of the present caselaw, it would probably be found illegal. The SPD movement promotes voluntary vaccination without discrimination against non-vaccines. Whoever wants to inoculate, let anyone who doesn't want to be vaccinated be not discriminated against in any way. We also promote the recognition of antibodies, when citizens should also be able to have a free antibody test. We reject the division of society into vaccinated and not vaccinated, as many citizens do not want to inoculate themselves for, for example, health reasons or because they have antibodies. The Ministry of Health should legislatively regulate measures in the context of the recognition of covid-19 antibodies as evidence of infectivity and not force citizens of all ages, including children from 12 years of age, to vaccination. For the general public, the level of antibodies is still not defined and current legislation discriminates against these groups of citizens on a permanent basis. These are hundreds of thousands of citizens who have enough antibodies because they have either already had covid-19 or are vaccinated. In addition, experts say that further vaccination could harm those individuals. At the same time, the State should not only fully pay for these antibody tests but also recognise them. Our goal is to return all citizens to normal life. In relation to the coronavirus pandemic, we must provide for vulnerable groups, seniors, disabled people, as well as all possible medical care available. Let's allow the other citizens to return to their common ancestors' lives. The Czech company can be characterized by a large number of different opinion currents. If we want to manage and make good decisions in practice, it is good to take into account all aspects related to the decision. However, the condition is to be able to work well with different currents of opinion. The art of politicians is to make a decision that will suit all or most of the parties represented. Another, more complex situation is in a period of crisis or pandemic. Politicians make decisions primarily to eliminate risks, in order to avert the threat of pandemics. In crisis situations, the threat can harm anyone, so it should be decisively united and clear. This brings us to the essence of the problem, and these are the decisions of the government in relation to the covid-19 pandemic, which divide citizens into two categories, namely vaccination and non-inoculation. The covid-19 pandemic has intervened in all the spheres of our lives: health, education, economics and interpersonal relations. The pandemic has been going on for a long time. A lot of people are tired, frustrated, unhappy and disappointed in this situation. We see many times that society is like a pressurized paprika. Just a little spark and misfortune is in the world. That is why it is irrational to attach fire to this situation and to make decisions that deepen society's state - frustration - even more. Therefore, we require the government to adhere to simple rules for all, clear and understandable, correct rules in relation to the pandemic of coronanavir, that is dealing with the problem. Democracy has different forms. We assess how democracy works in which state, depending on how democratic values are applied in people's everyday lives and whether governance works in accordance with democratic processes. Proposals for compulsory vaccination, or the issue of measures that divide society into groups of vaccination-inoculations, only aggravate the existing conflicts between people and create completely unnecessary tensions in society. But politicians must also be able to convince people to take sides. We should convince people on the basis of relevant information, arguments, explain the nature of the problem and make logical arguments. Let us not spend people for their other beliefs. They developed their opinion from the information they had at their disposal, based on their experience so far. It's not their problem that they see things differently. It's a problem for politicians - they couldn't convince people, they couldn't put forward arguments that would change their attitude. To point out that we have a company fragmented into two groups, vaccinated and non-vaccine, is actually an indicator of the quality of the information submitted to the company. But we don't know which of these groups is right. Even opinions about vaccination vary from country to country in the world. Some countries provide for vaccination obligations for older citizens, public sector workers, health professionals, police officers, transport workers. Some countries have taken tougher measures, such as compulsory vaccination for all persons over 18 years of age, elsewhere from 14 years of age. Various overview tables can be easily tracked on the Internet. In a number of countries, measures are already being disbanded in relation to the coronavirus pandemic and the return to normal life. This is what we stand for in the SPD movement. Some information sources point out that the problem of the division of our society is that people do not have enough information compared to, for example, Great Britain. British experience suggests that if people have enough information, they will be much better oriented, whether vaccinations or not, vaccinations do, or not, as much as it protects, what side effects may be. This is also pointed out by a group of non-vaccines who have witnessed an extensive vaccination campaign without any information on adverse effects, method of production, vaccine action, etc. The non-inoculated consider media campaigns to be informationally unbalanced and targeted promotions to be vaccinated. So let us return to this idea in our decision on how we will proceed with pandemics. Let's look for a solution that will be valid for everyone. We do not spend time in crisis situations on different groups. Let us move unitedly so that no one feels discriminated against simply because he has his own free opinion. Now I would like to introduce you to an open letter from the medical school students to the current situation. It is addressed to the Minister of Health and it is certainly good to know how young people and students view this issue, students of medical faculties, in Prague on 24. 1. 2022, open letter of students to the current situation: "Dear Minister, as students of medical faculties, we are addressing you with two serious topics, which are currently a great concern of a large part of the population of the Czech Republic. One of them is discrimination against one group of citizens on the basis of their voluntary decision not to undergo vaccination against covid-19. The second one is the amendment to Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of covid-19 disease, hereinafter referred to as the pandemic law, which should be decided shortly by the Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[9.40 hours]] We would first like to comment on the amendment to the pandemic law and also on the pandemic law itself. Here we would like to refer to an open call to Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and senators of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, in which the lawyers of the Pro Libertate Institute expressed themselves on the whole of the above mentioned issue. As students, we believe that the covid-19 disease can also be combated in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Because if one day we start going around our highest rules, our constitution, it's the end of the society we've known so far. Therefore, Minister, we ask you, as a member of the coalition group of the SPOLU, which declared before the elections that freedom and rights of citizens are in the first place, to vote against the adoption of this amendment. We also ask you to appeal to other members of the government in this respect. Another subject on which we would like to comment is discrimination against non-vaccines and those with invalid covid certificates. First of all, we want to stress that we do not question the importance of vaccination in general as an integral part of the prevention of many diseases, but we require that vaccination against covid-19 remains a fully voluntary matter for the following reasons: 1. There is a high risk of serious illness and death on covid-19 in the vast majority in the higher age categories and in patients with comorbidities. In the Czech Republic, the average age of the deceased is 79 years. American CDC to 2. 1. In addition, 2022 points out that the deaths caused by the covid-19 are, on average, four other causes or comorbidities that led to death. Only 5 percent of patients reported covid-19 as the only cause of death. For these patients, covid-19 is a significant risk and the benefits of the vaccine outweigh its risks. However, the age category under which university and secondary school students fall is not an epidemiological threat to the overload of the health system. For category 15 to 24 years there is 1 % per cent hospitalization with diagnosis of covid-19, in addition it is mostly a health-risk individual. So far, 8 positive PCR subjects have died, representing 0.03% of all covid-19 deaths. Every death of man is a tragedy, but based on these data, we believe that for most of the population, covid-19 represents a minimum risk. Similarly, vaccination by strengthening the dose for all over 12 years of age lacks rationality in our opinion and is not based on empirical data based on evidence-based medicine standards. WHO chief scientist on Tuesday 18. 1.2022 stated: "There is no evidence at present that healthy children or adolescents need a booster dose.© No evidence at all. We have no idea what reasons led you to approve vaccination by strengthening the dose of children over 12 years of age. 2. According to available data, vaccination reduces the risk of serious disease progression, but does not prevent disease. Although vaccination decreases the risk of infection in the first months after administration, protection against infection decreases significantly after six months. If a breakthrough delta infection occurs with the SARS-CoV-2 variant in the vaccine, then the peak viral load in both the vaccine and the non-vaccine is the same. However, the vaccine is subject to a faster decrease in viral load and may be less infectious. The variant omicron goes around post-vacation immunity even more clearly than the variant delta. Unfortunately, vaccination does not provide promise-freeness, so it cannot be considered an effective tool to prevent the transmission of disease between persons. 3. We lack facts based on the reason why the disease or the presence of antibodies is not considered to be at the same level as the vaccination. More than 140 studies are currently published in renowned journals around the world, indicating that post-infectious immunity is superior or comparable to post-vaccination. Individuals who have suffered from the disease are almost absent from intensive care units, both in the group not vaccinated and vaccinated. In the period from 24. 12. 2021 to 6. 1. 2022 was hospitalized at the ICU in the conversion of 100,000 inhabitants to 218 non-viable non-viables, 46 non-viables vaccinated, 2.1 non-viables vaccinated and 2.2 non-viables vaccinated. Unfortunately, the IHIS does not provide such processed data, and we are based on the conversions developed by JUDr. Ondřej Dostál, . Analysis of data on association of microbiologists, immunologists and statistics provides similar conclusions. This data shows that vaccination brings benefits for certain groups of the population, but almost none for individuals who have gone through the disease. So we're in a situation where even though people have high levels of antibodies, they can't socially realize themselves. It is thus known that vaccination without prior detection of antibody levels can be dangerous. 4. We also express uncertainty about the alleged high safety of covid-19 vaccines. According to the American database VAERS was on 31. 12. 2021 reported 1 016 999 000 vaccine adverse reactions and 21 382 deaths. A large number of myo/pericarditis is also reported in the VAERS database. Compared to the influenza vaccine, the incidence of these adverse events in the 12 to 65 age category is almost 290 times higher. We know it's just a pharmacovigilance system whose purpose is to find a signal about safety, and it doesn't point to causality. However, this signal is very strong and cannot be ignored in our opinion. We would also like to point out the data from the official documents of Pfizer obtained from the FOIA court order. The document is called Cumulative analysis of the post-authorization side effects of the vaccine. It shows the passively collected data of Pfizer from the period from 1. 12. 2020 to 28. 2. 2021. It reports over 1,200 deaths and 42 085 adverse events reported with Pfizer and BioNTech. An incidence of adverse reactions may already be observed in this document. The American FDA did not recognise this adverse reaction until June 2021. Strangely, Pfizer and BioNTech did not experience these side effects during clinical trials. Possible reason for this omission is suspected of poor methodological practices in the third phase of the clinical trial. British Medical Journal 2. 11. 2021 has published a report that data have been falsified in the Prizer clinical trial, the study has not been properly blinded and there have been insufficient reports of adverse reactions. We will mention some disturbing studies dealing with the occurrence of myo/pericarditis after covid-19 vaccination. docent RNDr. Marek Petráš, ., reports that after a disease gone through, the second dose of vaccine worsens the immune response and poses an unnecessary risk of complications. The European Medicines Agency warns against repeated boosters that may tire the immune system. We believe that in the ongoing investigation of the Omicron vaccine variant proposed for the original Wuchan variant can be potentially dangerous, see the immunological phenomena of ADE. It should also be noted that there are no known data excluding long-term adverse reactions. This shows our legitimate concern that the risks of vaccination of our age category outweigh its benefits. From our own experience, we know that a number of side effects are not reported. [[9.50 hours]] We also want to state that the precautionary principle applies in the case of the approval of new medicines. The presumption of innocence cannot be applied here. Our task as students is not to demonstrate the safety of vaccines, but the task of pharmaceutical companies and agencies designed to regulate them is to prove their safety. However, there are already a number of studies that disprove the declared safety of these vaccines. 5. When teaching at medical faculties, we are encouraged to assess all laboratory findings in relation to the overall clinical condition of the patient. However, this principle is completely ignored as part of the field testing. 6. We also consider that mass vaccinations are carried out in completely inappropriate environments - railway stations or commercial centres. Vaccines should ideally be carried out by a physician who knows best the history and current state of the vaccine. Furthermore, we would also recall one of the basic epidemiological principles, namely the principle that vaccination is not carried out during the period of the current epidemic. 7. On 27 January 2021, the Council of Europe issued Resolution 2361, emphasising the Member States to ensure that citizens are informed that vaccination is not compulsory and that there is no political, social or other pressure on anyone to be vaccinated unless they wish to do so, to ensure that no one is discriminated against for being vaccinated because of possible health risks or that they do not want to be vaccinated. The patient should not be forced under pressure and threats to undergo a medical procedure, as mentioned in Chapter 2 of Art. 5 the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine. Any health care intervention may be carried out only on condition that the person concerned has given his or her free and informed consent. That person must be duly informed in advance of the purpose and nature of the procedure, as well as of its consequences and risks. The person concerned may withdraw his consent at any time. The Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine as a ratified international treaty shall have, pursuant to Art. 10 The Constitution of the Czech Republic takes precedence over the ordinary laws of the country. If the Czech law is contrary to the Convention, the law does not apply and the Convention applies. The Czech Republic ratified this Treaty in June 2001 and published it under No. 96/2001 in the collection of international treaties. If we were vaccinated, our consent to this procedure could not be free or informed, and we would act solely under social pressure. As part of teaching medical ethics at our faculties, we have learned about the principles of nonmaleficence, benefit and respect for the autonomy of a normal individual. We have always been placed on our hearts to approach each patient individually with a drop from the paternalist approach. Unfortunately, we see the above ethical principles being trampled on. These comments can help you deal with your advisor, Dr. Marek Orko Vácha. 8. Many experts express doubts about vaccination under duress. There have been several declarations signed by thousands of people. The doctor's declaration was signed by 1 961 doctors with a total of 83 969 signatures, the lawyer's declaration was signed by 351 lawyers and 15 896 supporters, the declaration of nurses 7 489 health professionals, the declaration of students 1 026 students and the declaration of members of the integrated rescue system and the armed forces of the Czech Republic 6 296 members and 20 799 supporters. More than 17,000 doctors and medical scientists have already signed the international declaration of doctors. 9. We believe that free and open academic discussion is essential for true scientific knowledge. Every day we see the voices of experts in the professional public in the media and on social networks being silenced just because they allow themselves to express a different opinion than the official one. For this reason, we believe that the submitted official opinions cannot be the result of an adequate expert discussion. 10. It is very unhealthy for society if it is divided into two groups. At present, it is divided into vaccinated and not vaccinated. Tribalism merely strengthens existing prejudices, opinions and attitudes and thus contributes to a black and white view of the issue. This creates mutual antipathy against the opposite group, and any view from the second camp is automatically considered unacceptable without his unbiased mandate. This again causes difficulties in finding true scientific knowledge. 11. A significant proportion of the population underwent vaccination not for health reasons, but rather for social and existential reasons. Many of our classmates were vaccinated as early as January and February last year at the time when they assisted in the covido departments. They are now forced to take even the third dose of vaccination so that they can function in society in at least the basic way. Non-inoculated people or those whose vaccination certificate has expired still cannot visit restaurants, sports facilities, go skiing, listen to a concert or get a haircut. This is totally unacceptable for us and we call on you to speed up the abolition of discrimination against citizens on the basis of their free decision not to undergo a medical procedure on condition approved by the vaccine. We also lack any rational explanation as to why an individual with a negative PCR test cannot visit the above mentioned sites. We therefore believe that this current measure, as one of many, is a mere tool to force citizens to undergo vaccination. At the same time, however, we believe that entry to these places should not be subject to either a test or vaccination in the event of a disease. 12. As Minister of Health, we would like to invite you to thoroughly review your statements that vaccination is the only way to prevent death from covid-19. At present, treatment procedures are developed to allow very effective covid-19 treatment, even without the use of expensive preparations of the form of monoclonal antibodies, molnupiravirus or Paxlovide. It can be registered that since spring 2020, when the main strategy for combating pandemics has been established by means of antiepidemic measures and vaccination, it has been resigned to finding treatment procedures, for example, already registered safe medicines. As one example of many dozens of medicinal substances, use a diluted solution of Betadine disinfection in the nasal and oral cavity. The principle is to reduce viral load, which reduces mortality by up to 88 percent. You yourself proposed in your Facebook paper that "doctors should inform the Ministry of Health about what the state of the art care looks like, and the task of the Ministry is to provide the necessary means to put it into practice. Therefore, we will be happy to meet you and give you our suggestions for prevention and treatment of covid-19, which is based on a number of trusted studies. In our view, it is very important that there be adequate recommendations for early primary treatment and that there is no unnecessary loss of human lives. 13. We have been fighting the covid-19 disease for over two years and it is still the only solution recommended and promotes only vaccinations associated with draconian discriminatory measures. However, there are a number of ways to defend yourself effectively. One of them is simple prevention, which is completely forgotten from our point of view. At the beginning of the pandemic, we could hear arguments that there was no time for prevention, but even after two years nothing changed in this regard. It might be more appropriate to draw attention, in addition to the vaccination campaign, to the possibilities of increasing immunity to the immune system - such as sleep, movement, balanced diet, vitamin D, adaptogens. With regard to surface measures, there is a reference to more than 400 studies showing a minimum, no or negative effect of surface antiepidemic measures. [[10.00 hours]] We would like to ask you, as young, critically minded people, for true knowledge, for an open discussion. We also ask you to comment on the individual points of this letter. We are open to new information and willing to change our minds based on factual arguments and clear data. We try to apply knowledge as it teaches us at medical schools. Finally, we would also recall that the primary goal of our students is to prepare for our future occupation. As a result of the current situation, however, we are forced to appeal instead of studying to you as Minister of Health on the return to the original idea of medicine, and that is the primary non nightere, because who other than the Minister of Health should bear this idea in particular in mind. We thank you in advance for the possibility of rethinking your opinions and allowing mutual discussion. With respect and respect below signed: Michael Kopecký - student of the 6th year, Pavlína Kopecká - student of the 2nd year, Denisa Matláková - student of the 5th year, Olga Ringelová - student of the 3rd year, Ján Dacho - student of the 1st year, Natálie Natálie - student of the 2nd year, Denisa Matláková - student of the 3rd year, Karolína Marklová - student of the 2nd year, Viktorie Žídková - student of the Tomancová year, Viktorie Žídková - student of the 3rd year, Anna Martincová - student of the 6th year, Patricie Moravcová - student of the 2nd year. the year of the year.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u25	Do you think it's necessary to read all the signatures? [[Member of the Council: It is necessary.]] It is necessary, it is necessary to justify this point. Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u26	Yes, it's necessary, it's necessary. "Jakub Diviš - student of 2nd year, Andrea Poljaková - student of 4th year, Barbara Filipová - student of 4th year, Emma Šlopková - student of 5th year, Magdaléna Šáchová - student of 1st year, Marek Špaček - student of 2nd year, Marie Švecová - student of 5th year, Michal Harazin - student of 4th year, Tereza Doleželová - student of 3rd year, Simona Kowaliková - student of 1st year, Alžběta Bláhová - student of 1st year, Eliška Lienertová - student of 2nd year, Lucie Krátká - student of 2nd year, Pavla Bukvová - student of 1st year, Anna Kolečkářová - student of 2nd year, Karolína Bezecná - student of 3nd year. the year of the year.' Then there are the sources from which the students were based. Finally, allow me to interpret the SPD's call to end the restrictions and division of society into two categories End the restrictions and division of society into two categories in relation to the corona pandemic. And I ask you to include this item called Information on the Government's termination of restrictions and division of society into two categories today after already firmly placed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Patrik Nacher is another duly signed up with a proposal to adjust the meeting. I have received a number of questions about why the Member could have spoken for so long. So just for the record - on account of the fact that he represents the club president and has priority rights - to be explained. Please speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a second point here. The first one concerned consumer protection, so it has to do with my expertise, and the second one concerns that I am speaking here now as a Prague MP, because I would like to ask you to pre-schedule a proposal from the Prague City Council to issue a law amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business business, the so-called trade law. You'll find it as House press 41. I would especially ask coalition MPs if they could pay attention, because this is what a coalition MP from Prague should suggest. I'm serious right now. This is the proposal of the council of the capital city of Prague dealing with Airbnb - short-term accommodation - and the problem we have in the center of the capital city of Prague. I am in opposition there, I am in opposition here, and yet I suggest it, although I should theoretically be interested in the current coalition in Prague. But I'm not gonna do it, I think it's for the good of the cause. So I would ask the members of the STAN movement, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL who are in the coalition in Prague if they could support this point. What's going on? The point is that the proposal empowers individual municipalities to issue regulations and limit short-term accommodation, as we know from some other cities in Europe. The extreme is I suspect Berlin, where it is about 30 days a year, but it is up to the decision of the municipalities. To let you know that I am consistent that I am not doing this here just because, in my opinion and in my information, the position of the Coalition Members and on the same side of the coalition representatives is somewhat different, so I have also proposed it here in the last parliamentary term, I follow up on that. And the point is that the municipality will be able, if it considers it necessary, to limit short-term accommodation to a certain period of time, to determine the conditions under which such a service, especially in housing houses, can be provided. This topic mainly concerns the city of Prague, to a lesser extent Karlovy Vary, I may have heard something in Brno and perhaps Český Krumlov. I would like to put this as a point after the financial arbiter, but in order for Mr President not to be confused, I had three different options, so I would like to ask for all three options: either if there is a will, because there is nothing, here we can put it into second reading, and then there we can talk about it, and if there is no will, then we will not include it as the correspondence option, that means behind the financial arbiter, which will be behind the correspondence option, so for these two options I will ask you. Again, it is a proposal on which the representative of the capital city of Prague, where the mayor - yeah, sorry, I forgot to mention the Pirate Party before, I would ask for the support, that is STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates, pirát have a mayor there. It is a proposal from the Council under the leadership of the Pirate Mayor, and I hope that you, colleagues, will support this, because I will inform the next council on how the members of coalition entities have taken up the Airbnb law. I understand that outside Prague, these people and Members may not be so interested, but Prague's Members across the political spectrum should be interested. Again, it's 41. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u29	Thank you for reading the proposal. Mr Radek Vondráček will now appear on the agenda for the meeting, and Berenika Peštová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I didn't even think it would be that fast. I come with my evergreen, with the law on lobbying - press number 1 and related law, press number 2. It almost occurred to him yesterday. I think he's become such a collateral damage to what happened here in the House yesterday. I think it was an exceptionally unwanted process, so I hope that if the press had a chance yesterday, he might still have a chance today. So I propose it as the very first point of today's negotiations. If it is not voted in this way, I propose it as the first point after the fixed points that will be put to the vote before me. Legislative efforts to include lobbying in our legal order appear repeatedly, but have not yet resulted in any comprehensive solution that should increase the transparency of lobby activity and legitimize lobbying as an activity that benefits the political system. [[10.10 hours]] As stated in the substantive intention of the Act on lobbying, approved by the Government's resolution of 21 February 2018, number 114, it would be possible to use non-legislative means such as ethical codes, public policy diaries and the like, but despite several attempts in the past, insufficient political will was not found to implement them. Here I remind you that we discussed this press or the bill during the last parliamentary term, the law remained hanging just before the vote at third reading. This was also due to the obstructive manifestations of the opposition at the time. This was also due to the fact that in some way the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee was delayed by one day, so we did not have a deadline and could not vote on lobbying before the end of the parliamentary term. It was kind of a little obstruction on purpose, and I'm a sportsman. We've always taken this sportyly, and I think in this House, some of us should finally learn to take hits when they want to give them away. It's just a reminder about yesterday. I'm saying, I don't think it was on purpose that it didn't happen at the lobby last night. He was placed in the opposition window as the fifth point. And only here in a brief response to Jakob's colleague: sometimes you have to tell me whose clever idea it was not to put a single point in the opposition window of the opposition party. Then I can't blame him for not even coming to my lobby. With regard to the ethical code, which could perhaps replace part of the law on lobbying and which we would adopt by resolution, I also proposed it in the previous parliamentary term, and in some mysterious way it was not discussed. In fact, as a plaintiff, I don't even know where he ended up, he fell through the grid somewhere on the Organizing Committee, and there was no further discussion of the code of ethics of the Member. So I think it is really unacceptable that this government does not have lobbying at all in its programming statement that it is completely silent about lobbying. I am convinced that self-regulation mechanisms are not enough, that lobbying regulation must be implemented here at the level of legal regulation, and that it is not always transparent here in this House and under clear rules to influence their decision-making. This, of course, poses a risk of endangering the public interest in favour of hidden partial interests. Lobbing can thus also have negative conventions such as unacceptable influence, unfair competition, political corruption in the form of so-called capture by a regulator that adversely affects public interest, public policy, and therefore the economy. That is why lobbying is often associated with corruption in the public eye, a lobbyist is perceived as a negative label, although it can be a beneficial institution, and another cause of negative perception can be, for example, a very fine line between lobbying and crimes, such as indirect bribery. Non-state non-profit organizations that have long sought to regulate lobbying in the Czech Republic consider it an important element in the fight against corruption. Remaining in the current state would also lead to international recommendations and proposals not being taken into account in this area addressed to the Czech Republic. [[pacts?]] [[Time.]] The legal regulation adopted by lobbying in recent years in individual countries in Europe also demonstrates the topicality and urgency of this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u31	Thank you for your point. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I will indeed try to be very brief and factual about the proposals tabled by colleagues from the ANO movement. I must say that I am 100% in favour of the trend, that is something that we have worked on together a lot in the last parliamentary term. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Government has committed itself in its programming declaration to improve the quality of legislation, to carefully consider any new regulation on the basis of an analysis of the expected impacts and that the legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration will be presented in a standard legislative way, and experts within the Government Legislative Council will comment on them before submitting them to the Government. As far as Airbnb is concerned, the government has committed itself to changes in the area of shared accommodation in the programming declaration, so this issue will need to be addressed, and given that there is probably not quite a consensus so far, I am not sure that we will be able to discuss this here on the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, but the Ministry of Regional Development will certainly work hard to implement this part of the programming declaration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u33	Thank you. Now, the speech to Mrs Berenika Peštová's programme and Mr Robert králíček will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u34	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to place paragraph 43, House Press 56, which, as has already been said, should have been discussed yesterday. Unfortunately, it didn't come up, and I'd like to place it as the first point. I realize that the Minister is not present, but I am sure we all know that ministers can delegate, and another Minister can present as an absent minister. Now, what makes me say that? This amendment law contains amendments to related laws, in particular the Act on Packaging, the Trade Act, the Income Tax Act, the Act on State and Agricultural Food Inspection and the Act on End-of-life Products, of course, other legislative technical adaptations. We all know that such a law is an excellent carrier. I don't have to say what a carrier is - it's just a law that's a good label. Already today in the galleys resonates the rebooting of backup. I myself have prepared an extensive argument which I would like to present in this Chamber of Deputies, with this press, of course, because I am the rapporteur. I'd like to poke out the negatives and the positives that may or may not bring it, and of course I'd like to hear your argument whether you're on the same boat, whether backup yes or backup no, because from my perspective, if it gets into this law, it's an ordinary sticker, and backup as such would deserve a separate novel and a big, really big debate, and not put it in this amendment law as an adhesive. So I thank you for your attention and I believe that this point will be included as point 1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u35	Thank you, Madame. For the sake of order, I add that yes, the Minister can be represented on the grounds that he is appointed by the Prime Minister or by the Vice Prime Minister to represent them or by a member of the Government. If this is documented, of course we can discuss the point. And now Mr Robert králíček has signed up for the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a new point to this meeting because I think it is very important and that we should discuss it perhaps before some other laws, and this is the fight against misinformation. In recent days, articles have appeared in the media that the fight against misinformation is not paying enough attention, and there have also been attacks on Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's government that it has not been involved in this issue at all. I dare say that this is not true and that the subject has been given great attention. As you will recall, we have also established a committee on hybrid threats across the political spectrum during the previous parliamentary term, and I think that colleagues who are here from the coalition can confirm that this topic has been given great attention not only on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but on the floor of the Office of the Government as well as on the ground of the Ministry of Health and other ministries. [[10.20 hours]] There was also exemplary cooperation with the private sector, because it is often blamed on the state administration for not being able to afford experts, and therefore private sector experts were also invited to cooperate with the then government, the then Ministry and the Chamber of Deputies. This resulted in a number of recommendations prepared by us, members of this hybrid commission, a committee on hybrid threats, and in rare agreement, 100% of all members, except for a member of the KSČM, for the then government. And I believe, because there were members of the current coalition on that committee, that the government of Petr Fiala also has these recommendations. I would like to be, because the current Minister for Science, Education, Development and Research also criticised the communication of the previous government and was the initial and pioneer to create strategic communication, or better communication, than was blamed on the government of Andrej Babiš. So I would like to place this point in order for the Prime Minister to tell us what steps his government has taken, what steps it will take to combat misinformation, what information it has taken from those recommendations, which have also been drawn up by the members of the Commission, who are members of the current coalition, what information it has taken and how it will continue to develop, because even in the media it has been mentioned that no one is doing this. Even at the Home Office, there's an expert team. It's a center, and now I'm sorry, I don't know exactly the name, terrorism and hybrid threats that are dealing with it 100%. There are plenty of high-quality experts who analyze various disinformation daily and prepare recommendations. The team's good, they're experts. And I hope and firmly believe that the current Home Secretary will develop this team, and our goal was for these teams to be formed in other ministries. And I believe it will succeed. Therefore, I would like to place this point as a second point for Prime Minister Petr Fiala to tell us a strategy in this fight against misinformation, because, as you know, the pandemic is not yet ending and, at least, in this area of pandemic and codium, disinformation is still growing. So I'm going to ask you to support this point and put it on the agenda as a second item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u37	Thank you for presenting the proposal on the agenda for the meeting, which has exhausted all the proposals. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to vote. And there's a colleague named Jakob reporting with priority rights. Mr President, I want to say one thing: you can now speak with priority rights, but no longer on the agenda, because the application had to fall by 9:30. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u38	Thank you. I have marked the individual designs, there are quite a lot of them. Please take five minutes to meet the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u39	Thank you. For the reason that Chairman TOP 09 requests five minutes for a meeting of the club, I am declaring a break until 10.28 hours. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 10.23 to 10.28 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will call my fellow Members to the Chamber for a vote. Time for recess is up. I'll check you all out, log your application for re-entry, ask you to sign up with your cards again. I'll read an apology or cancel it. Mr. Petr Letocha cancels his apology today. So we're going to go point by point as they were loaded, and I'm going to put them to a vote. First of all, we will vote on the inclusion of the first item on today's day, and that is the confirmation of the Presidents, both of the Committee on Regional Development and of the Committee on Defence, as one point. This is the first inclusion on the programme and then inclusion as the first item in today's negotiations. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal for this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 88, 143 Members and Members have signed up, in favour of proposal 142, this proposal has been approved. [[10.30 hours]] And now we will vote on this point being the first one to be placed today. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal that this item will be the first item in today's negotiations? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 89, 146 Members and Members signed up for proposal 146. It has been approved that we will be the first to discuss this point today. I also have a proposal from Mr Karel Havlíček, who comes up with a proposal to include a new point, and this is Covidová's support for entrepreneurs. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 90; 146 Members and Members are registered, for 65, against 1. This proposal has not been agreed with. We will therefore now vote on Mr Patrik Nacher's proposal. It's House Press 34, Financial Audit. I have two suggestions: before or after Mr Havlíček's point, which falls, and then he wants to include him after the correspondence vote. [[This is Mrs Schiller reporting.]] Please, you have the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u40	Just a little something, Mr. Vice-President. It's not a financial audit, it's a financial arbiter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u41	Yes, thank you for the clarification. So the House press 34 after the correspondence election today. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 91; 146 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 65, against 22. This proposal has not been adopted. Now, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal is three points, i.e. paragraphs 57, 58 and 81. Given that Mr Nacher's item has not been passed, as has Mr Nacher's second, third and fourth points in today's negotiations, each item being voted separately. First of all, we are voting on paragraph 57 as the second item in today's negotiations. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 92, 145 Members and Members signed up for proposal 145. This proposal was adopted. As the third point of today's negotiations, this should be paragraph 58. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 93, 146 Members and Members signed up for proposal 145. This proposal was adopted. And the next in order today should be point 81, that's the suggestion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 94, 146 Members and Members registered, for proposal 46, against 20. This proposal has not been agreed with. There is now a proposal for the inclusion of a new point, which Mr Rozvoral presented, and this is the Information of the Government on the termination of restrictions and division of society into two categories. It's a new point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 95; 144 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 63, against 16. This proposal was not accepted. Furthermore, there is Mr Nacher's proposal, House Press 41 - Trade Law, to include after the item Financial Audit... [[Arbitrary!]] ... arbitrary, financial arbiter, but since neither the point of the financial arbiter nor the point of Mr Havlíček has been included, I believe that this point is not a voteable one. Or do you want to place it after today's fixed points? [[Yes.]] Okay, in that case, modification of the proposal for this point to be placed after today's fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 96, 145 Members are registered, for proposal 75, against 6. This proposal has been approved. No one disputes the vote, in which case I will continue. We also have Mr Vondráček's proposal on the law on lobbying, which comes with the proposal that he wants House Press 1 and 2 to be the first to be included today, and then, if necessary, on fixed points. I see a vote check here - President Benda, please. [[The vote is being reviewed. After that, no one disputes the result.]] Okay, thank you. Then we can continue. Mr Vondráček, as I said, has made his proposal that House Presses 1 and 2, the laws on lobbying, should now be included as the first or, if necessary, the fixed points. So first of all, I will vote that this should be the first point today. I am opening the vote and asking who is the first two points to include these two points today? All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 97, 145 Members and Members registered, for proposal 64, against 25. This proposal has not been agreed with. Furthermore, there is a proposal for these two points to be included today after fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 98, 145 Members are registered, for proposal 45, against 8. This proposal has not been agreed with. Furthermore, there is Mrs Peštová's proposal that we put the House press 56, paragraph 43, the amendment law, as the first item today. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 99, registered 145 Members and Members, for proposal 62, against 27. This proposal has not been adopted. [[10.40 hours]] Furthermore, we have the last proposal, and this is from Mr Robert Králíček, to include a new point that he called the Fight against Disinformation. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 100, 145 Members are registered, for proposal 44, against 30. This proposal has not been agreed with, and therefore we will not vote on its firm inclusion. I assume we've dealt with all the proposals to amend today's agenda - there are no objections. Mr. Nacher, too. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u42	Thank you. Just for the tape screen, I voted in favour now, I couldn't do it again, I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u43	Only for the log, thank you. I thank you for agreeing on the agenda for today's meeting and handing over the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and from me. We should continue under the approved programme with a proposal to confirm the chairmen of the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, but I do see the Vice-President of the ANO movement with priority rights and therefore give her the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like, of course, to take as reality how the programme was approved, but let me say a few words about the rejection of Mr Karel Havlíček's proposal to say - he didn't want to delay it, he really wanted to, he had some simple questions and he wanted to respond to them - and these are covidic compensatory programs. I was intersecting the Prime Minister yesterday, intersecting him with a question about the budgetary provisional and the problems resulting from it. The Prime Minister has given me the answer that there are no problems, that if anyone has them, then let them turn so I don't scare them into contacting the Treasury Secretary, the Ministry of Finance. And when I returned home tonight, she played the Czech Television programme Ninety, where the director general of the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, Mrs Svobodová, performed there, then the director of the Broadway Theatre, Mr Lichtenberg, performed there, Mr Heřmánek, the director of the Theatre Without the Handrail, and talked there about the huge problems they currently have, that they do not have any information about compensation at this time, that they do not know what it will be, that they do not know what compensation will be, when those compensations will be, that perhaps they are promised that something should be decided within fourteen days. Anyway, Mrs. Director General Svobodová said very well there, she said: If it were decided within the next 14 days, and God pay, first entrepreneurs reach some compensation at the turn of March, April, rather later, because it is at the Ministry of Finance for subsidy programs and they have to be somehow processed, they must be declared, they must be assessed according to budgetary rules, it is not as simple as it might seem. They also talked about it - and I draw and refer you, I put it on my networks, I refer you to the performance in the public space, of course there are more performances - I noticed Mr. Kastner's performance, which brings together catering services, and others. But this was completely fresh yesterday after the interpellation. They were talking about how the theatre directors helped them, how the compensation programs helped them, how they actually survived. They talked about it, yes, there are not such restrictions as were under our government, but restrictions lead to the fact that even the limit of thousands of seats or thousands of visitors, half of them go there anyway, even the Theatre No banisters - the director Heřmánek spoke - closed it because it was uneconomic for this visitation to operate the theatre. They also talked about shutting down Antivirus B. And Prime Minister, Antivirus A, yes, you were talking about it yesterday, yes, that works, but please that's a few crowns, it's about quarantine, it's really not a big hit. Antivirus B was concerned when there was a fall and employees could not or were not for reasons not only epidemic and related to it, because of course you do not only have people in quarantine, but also because of the overall economic situation. The antivirus B you're judging now, so the one-- they were talking clearly and it was their intel from practice-- he was helping them. So I refer to it, it was absolutely contrary to what you said to me here, because I am convinced as the former Minister of Finance that the budgetary provisional is the problem for which compensation programmes, which were prepared by the former Minister of Industry and Trade, cannot be prepared. If these circumstances had not prevented it, they could have been processed long ago. I have also noted, I think, that this week on the Event, comments, where the Minister of Culture was Baxa and talked about the fact that entrepreneurs in culture have a compensatory bonus. Yes, they do. They have a compensatory bonus if they meet the conditions, they're businessmen, they're small eseros or they're negotiators, so they have a compensatory bonus that our government has passed, and they luckily have, because it's the law, hence the mandatorial expenses, so it's legally paid. However, I have noticed - and I have already been confronted with this by Czech Television - that it is not known whether the compensation bonus will continue. The first compensatory period was from 22 November to 31 December. The second is from 1 January to 31 January and then it can be extended in accordance with the law of the government. The Minister of Finance said that he doesn't know if he's gonna extend it yet, so actually - the Minister of Culture isn't here - so I wouldn't even appeal to the compensation anymore. So there are no compensation programs, the Antivirus is being assessed and the compensation bonus is not known if it will continue. This is reality, and the reality is in public space, so there's no way the Prime Minister doesn't know. Yesterday I'm referring to a completely fresh report, but of course there's more information. The fact that people write to me, taxi drivers, and others, of course, is another matter. I believe they're also writing to you. I remember when they were texting us when we were in the government. So I'm sure you know about the information, and that's what Mr. Karel Havlíček wanted. He wanted a few words, how it's gonna be, what it's gonna be. We have no choice but to interpel you again and express ourselves in public space, but I appeal that this is not about this, this is not about a political struggle. [[Do I accept?]] The point is, at the end of the day, there are people who are limited today, who have huge problems, and the government closes their eyes to it. That's all I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-000-000.u46	Thank you very much. That was President Schillerová's speech with priority rights. I'm just gonna read two apologies. From today's meeting from 11 to 12.30, Vice-President Bartošek apologizes for reasons of work, and another apology is Mr Ženíšek from 13.30 to the end of today's day for reasons of work. Well, that was an apology. And now we can get to the first point of our meeting today, and that's
