ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u1	19. Government bill amending Act No. 164/2013 Coll., on International Cooperation in Tax Administration and on Amendment of Other Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 203/ - First Reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who is, however, excused, and, if I understand correctly, Minister Stanjura will be represented by Minister of Culture, Mr Martin Kupka, and I am asking him to take the floor. [[The President is alerted from the O.R. to a slip of the tongue.]] Martin Baxa, sorry. Minister Baxo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I am a happy person today in the legislative process, because the amendment to the Act on Video Platforms has been very problematic in terms of time, so I am very pleased to present the proposals of my colleagues Kupka and Minister Stanjura here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you a bill amending Act No. 164/2013 Coll., on International Cooperation in Tax Administration and on Amendment of Other Related Acts. This bill is the implementation of the so-called Directive DAC 7, Council Directive 2021/514 of 22 March 2021 amending the Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. The proposal concerns changes in three laws. Firstly, it is an amendment to the Act on International Cooperation in Tax Administration. The automatic exchange of information obtained from operators of internet platforms in the area of the shared economy, such as platforms providing accommodation or selling goods, the obligation to provide information to vendors active on the platform, and does not fall on ordinary e-shops unless they provide sales or accommodation to third vendors via the Internet. Further, the Czech authorities will acquire... Sorry, I'm sorry, I said that wrong. This amendment causes the obligation to provide information but does not fall on the vendors active on the platform and does not fall on ordinary e-shops unless they provide sales or accommodation via the Internet to third vendors. This amendment will further lead the Czech authorities to obtain information about sellers from domestic platforms and from platforms from non-EU countries operating in our country. On the contrary, the Czech Republic will receive information from foreign authorities about Czech vendors active on foreign platforms. Furthermore, this amendment to the Act on International Cooperation in Taxation regulates the international exchange of information in tax administration, including so-called group applications, and further forms of international cooperation in tax administration, including so-called joint tax control, which is carried out in one EU Member State with the participation of the tax authorities of other Member States concerned, and extends data protection and correction of their security violations. The second law, which concerns the proposal for amendments, is the amendment to the Act on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic, where, following the introduction of other instruments of international cooperation, an instrument not yet used in the administration of taxes is introduced for the control of obligations, control purchase. However, it is now only being implemented for this area, not for tax administration in general. Finally, the third amended law is the amendment to the Law on International Assistance in the Recovery of Certain Financial Claims, which governs the possibility of international enforcement of tax sanctions. The effectiveness of the bill, therefore, is now meant, which I present here in the accession of Minister Stanjura, is envisaged on 1 January 2023, with the exception of joint tax checks, in which efficiency is assumed from 1 January 2024. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u3	děkovat you, Minister Baxo, and I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Hana Naiclerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, this is therefore House Press 203, Amendment No. 164/2013, on international cooperation in tax administration. A lot of things have been said here, so I just have some brief summary. It is a government proposal, it was sent to Members on 14 April 2022. The draft law translates Directive 2021/514 of the Council of the European Union of 22 March 2021 amending Directive 2011/16 EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. A change in these laws is proposed - the law on international cooperation in the field of taxation, the law on financial management of the Czech Republic and the law on international assistance in the recovery of certain claims. The proposal contains the following headings of legislation and it is an automatic exchange of information obtained from platform operators, an international exchange of information in tax management, including so-called group applications, other forms of international cooperation in tax administration, including tax control, which is carried out jointly by the authorities of the Member States of the European Union or the Contracting States, the protection of personal data and the correction of breaches of their security, international assistance in the enforcement of tax sanctions and the amendment of the law on financial management of the Czech Republic associated with the modification of the institute of so-called control purchase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u5	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm opening a general debate that I haven't heard from anyone yet... Madam President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. At this point, we can discuss the draft law, which is a response to the Council Directive 2021/514 of 22 March 2021 amending Directive 2011/16 EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, the so-called DAC 7 Directive. I'm so sorry the Treasury Secretary isn't here. I understand you've become such a general promoter today, the models, the tax administration, I don't envy you. But it's a shame, because I'm sure the Minister and I would have said something about it. I have also advocated the implementation of this directive as Secretary of Finance in our government. The digital economy and its relationship to tax issues are very close to us, and at a time when I was Minister of Finance, we were one of the leaders opening up this issue in the context of the European Union. The proposed amendment introduces rules to enhance transparency in relation to individual digital platforms, which will announce the income of individuals as well as businesses that have received through these platforms in such a way as not to report such revenue, and as a result that these revenues are not part of an economy that has not been taxed. Directive DAC 7 concerns, in particular, cases where digital platforms operate simultaneously in several countries. Without our intervention, a large proportion of these revenues would remain tax-free and the Czech Republic would be losing revenue to public budgets. At the same time, however, honest business operators would be disadvantaged. And here I want to point out that the honest ones are the vast majority. In this way, tax evasion and honest business must not be a competitive disadvantage. This directive is fully in line with the policies of the YES movement, when we tried to increase the revenue of public budgets by increasing the efficiency of collection of tax collection. The aim of the amendment in tax administration is to modernise and make international cooperation more effective, both in the context of strengthening the role of shared platforms and at the same time in the digitalisation of the economy. The main part of the proposal is the extension of the current framework for international automatic exchange of information in the field of digital economies. Thanks to our amendment, the tax administrator in the Czech Republic will regularly obtain information about individual vendors who receive income from the provision of services or sales of goods, rentals or other provision of real estate or means of transport on these platforms. Individual information relating to the identification of the seller and information on total expenditure and revenue generated on digital platforms will be sent once a year from digital platforms directly to the specialised financial authority. Thus, Directive DAC 7 responds to dynamically changing environments, especially to the consequences of increasing the role of shared platforms and the digitalisation of the economy. The individual tax authorities of the Member States of the European Union do not currently have sufficient information to correctly measure the income tax on commercial activities carried out through digital platforms such as Liftago, Airbnb, Uber, Bolt and others. The actual strengthening of administrative cooperation in the tax field is based on the efficiency and modernisation of existing institutes used in the framework of international cooperation in tax administration. At the same time, however, the amendment introduces new institutes to respond to changing economic conditions and the needs of modern tax administration in the 21st century. In strengthening the measures for compliance with the obligations under the International Cooperation in Tax Administration Act, the draft act also contains a clarification of the transposition of Council Decision 2010/24/EU on mutual assistance in the recovery of claims arising from taxes, charges, duties and other measures and makes clear the scope of the International Assistance Act in the recovery of certain financial claims as regards the enforcement of penalties imposed in tax proceedings. On a specific level, the draft law can be broken down into several thematic units. These include automatic exchange of information obtained from platform operators, international exchange of information in tax management, including so-called group requests, other forms of international cooperation in tax administration, including tax control, which is carried out jointly with the authorities of the Member States of the European Union or the Contracting States, protection of personal data and correction of breaches of their security, international assistance in the enforcement of tax sanctions, amendment of the Act on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic associated with the modification of the Institute of Control Purchase, which is actually the most important institutes that are introduced in terms of control and enforcement in DAC 7. The proposed bill will increase the tax revenues of public budgets, will have a positive impact on fair competition and is an example of how tax collection is to be made more effective. It is logical to say here that the ANO movement supports this bill, because the largest part of the work was done under our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if there's anyone else who's still reporting for the general debate? Yes, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad to see the Minister of Finance here. To that law, I am also glad that the YES movement has worked most on it. It's too bad it's only being presented now. About the law. The law is actually purely implementing, which is a response to the EU Council Directive 2021/514 amending Directive 2011/16 on the regularity of cooperation in the field of taxation. The bill itself contains measures to strengthen administrative cooperation in the tax field. In particular, the draft law can then be divided into several thematic units: automatic exchange of information obtained from platform operators, international exchange of information in tax management, including group requests, other forms of international cooperation in tax administration, including tax control, which is carried out jointly by the authorities of the Member States of the European Union or the Contracting States, the protection of personal data and the correction of breaches of their security. International assistance in the enforcement of tax sanctions and amendment of the Act on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic associated with the modification of the institute of so-called control purchase. The draft law amending Act No. 164/2013 Sb., on international cooperation in tax administration and on the amendment of other related laws, as amended, and other related laws, is a set of amendments to these laws, whose gesturer is the Ministry of Finance. [[13.00 hours]] These are already the three mentioned laws. It's Law No. 164/2013 Coll., on international cooperation in tax administration and on the amendment of other related laws, it is also Act No. 456/2001 Coll., on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic, and it is Act No. 471/2011 Coll., on International Assistance in the Recovery of Certain Claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u9	Thank you. Mr Hrnčíř came forward with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief statement on this press as well. Of course, we welcome the fact that digital platforms that, of course, have been booming in recent years and are going through this economy increasingly and more money, that information will simply be exchanged so that it can really be taxed effectively. I'm a little sorry that there's been a debate recently about the digital tax that we've been discussing over the last parliamentary term for quite a long time. We dragged her almost to the end. When we look at Internet giants like Facebook, Google, and the way they collect sales here and how they pay taxes here - when I looked at Google's Internet giant, for example, sometime in 2020, he had over 300 million revenue here and paid taxes including social and health insurance contributions for employees of about CZK 7 million, while in Ireland he paid billions, so I think we should also focus on this direction. I would like the Minister of Finance who has arrived to comment on how far the digital tax is, if any, is envisaged because I think our state budget is actually losing a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time, but next time I ask you to join the debate properly. A real remark responds to previous speakers. Now, Minister Stanjura is logged in, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u12	Thank you for the floor. Once again, I would like to apologize for my absence, but a few minutes ago, the joint negotiations with the Polish Government ended, so as soon as we were finished, I headed here to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you, Minister of Culture, for taking the floor for me. I heard President Schillerová's speech and the subsequent performance, so I'm not going to reinvent the law. I think it was introduced quite widely and it is true that it was de facto prepared in the previous parliamentary term. There's no reason not to. In connection with this, I would like to propose a shortening of the deadline in two options, either for 10 days, so that in 14 days we can go through second reading, if it were vetoed, then 30 days to 30 days. For Mr Hrnčíř, by your means, Mr Vice-President, the debate on digital taxation has been replaced by a global agreement at OECD level, which has two pillars. One pillar, which has already been approved and is now finishing preparations for the European Directive, is a minimum effective corporate taxation of 15%. The Czech Republic supports this. The second pillar, which concerns digital taxation, works are finished within the OECD framework, should be completed this year. It is exactly what many have called for in the last parliamentary term that there is a much better international solution. More than a hundred countries supported the solution in the second pillar. I suppose it'll be in the first pillar, too. Once this is adopted, we will implement it at national level without the risk of sanctions by the United States, because the United States has joined the agreement. Following the change of administration, the approach has been changed, so we have not underestimated it, but at this point it makes no sense to accept solutions at national level. The directive on the second pillar will either be adopted at the next ECOFIN in Luxembourg, or it will be during our Presidency, where unanimity of the Member States is needed. This has not yet been achieved, but compromise negotiations are moving towards an agreement. That's the way it should be. That's all. I hope that such an explanation of the digital tax is sufficient and the bill has been presented sufficiently from the mouth of my previous speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u13	Thank you very much. President Schillerová has yet to report, so I will give her the floor - the last one entered into the general debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. He's more or less the minister said it. I wanted to respond to Mr Hrnčíř with the fact that our proposal - and presented by our government, I was at the head of the Ministry of Finance - was the so-called digital tax, and it was supposed to be the pressure created on the OECD to finally start doing something after eight or ten years and create global taxation. I know that the work - you have a more detailed overview today, Minister - I only watch it from what is in the public space - that the work has progressed, which is good, because it is unfair that these platforms - it is unfair even to Czech digital companies that operate here and have to pay taxes honestly, and foreign ones that we will not catch today from the point of view of virtual residence, not really. So if this really goes on, there's going to be pressure, and we're going to support it as much as possible. When it somehow arrives in the Chamber of Deputies, I say we always support it for the YES movement. So I think that's a better step. That's what we've always said, we want global taxation. I even supported the European solution, although it wouldn't be complete, because it wouldn't actually capture a whole number of companies. That's on ice today, I know that from public space. But if it is, it's definitely better than the digital tax. But in our time, it was because of that that we created pressure, and I think that... I met several times with the then American ambassador, who was very concerned about it. He also promised me - he is a different person there today, of course - but he promised, and I think it also happened that the United States, which blocked it the longest on the OECD platform, would unblock the situation. If this is happening, it is the right path that has our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u15	Thank you. President Schillerová has so far been the last to be entered in the general debate. I said, anybody else checking in? Mrs. Schillerová reporting again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u16	I'm sorry, I could have said it at the same time. I would like to veto a proposal on behalf of two clubs - the ANO and the SPD movement - to shorten the deadline. I think, even if we support the proposal, we raise our hand for him, so we think he should go through a proper process. It's interesting, there's a whole bunch of things they want us to get to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-009-019.u17	Thank you. So you're vetoing the 10 days? Yeah, thank you for the information. Okay. Now, then, we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees. Since there was no proposal in the general debate to return or reject the proposed proposal, I am therefore ending the general debate. We will proceed to the commandment of the committees. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. I want to ask if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I'm registering an interest in checking you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your ID cards. In the meantime, I will correct one more omission and ask both the plaintiff and the rapporteur if they would be interested in the final words? [[- No. Newsletter: No.]] I think that the number of Members has settled. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 58, 141 Members were voted in, 141 voted in, there was no one against. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. [[13.10 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask, does anyone have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? It's not like that. We shall now proceed to the vote on the shortening of the time limits. President Schillerová vetoed a reduction to 10 days on behalf of two MPs. We will therefore vote on the option presented by Minister number two, namely the reduction of the time limits to 30 days. I will vote on this proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand? Who's against it? Voting number 59, 146 Members voted in favour of 82, against 61. The motion was accepted. We've dealt with item number 19 and I'm done negotiating it at the moment. Let's continue with point number
