ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-016-091.u1	91. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification The Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the transfer of sentenced persons (Kolombo, 14. 10. 2021) /Household printing 149/ - second reading Please take the floor not by the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek, but by the Deputy Minister of Transport, Mr Martin Kupka. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-016-091.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the Government's proposal by which Parliament is to agree to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Sri Lankan Democratic Socialist Republic with the new name Sri Lankan Democratic Socialist Republic. There is currently no bilateral or multilateral treaty on the transfer of sentenced persons between the Czech Republic and Sri Lanka. The transfer of sentenced persons with Sri Lanka cannot be carried out on a non-contractual basis, this is on the principle of so-called assurance of reciprocity, as Sri Lanka's legislation requires the existence of an international treaty in force for this type of international judicial cooperation. In view of these facts, the transfer of convicted persons between the Czech Republic and Sri Lanka is not possible at all at the moment. For this reason, the agreement submitted is considered to be very effective, since the agreement will allow cooperation between the Czech Republic and Sri Lanka in the transfer of sentenced persons. The convicts will thus be given the opportunity to execute prison sentences in the state of which they are citizens and in an environment that will facilitate their resocialisation. The agreement is in line with the foreign political interests of the Czech Republic and extends the possibilities of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Contracting Parties. The contract initiative came from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic. The implementation of the contract will fall within the competence of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as regards communication by diplomatic means. The costs associated with the implementation of the contract will be covered by the budget chapters of these departments, the impact on the state budget being insignificant. Thank you for your attention and please give a favourable assessment of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-016-091.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am here at the moment stating that the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, who should justify the committee's resolution, is Mr Hayato Okamura, but I do not see him in the hall. I would like to ask, who on the foreign committee will represent the Member at this time? Mrs. Eva Decroix. Then I'll ask the lady of the house. Here comes the MP! Can I ask you something? So once again, I ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Hayat Okamura, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House press 149. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-016-091.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a contract which clearly improves the current state and position of Czech citizens who would be sentenced in Sri Lanka. We have discussed this proposal in the Foreign Committee and adopted a resolution which recommends that this Treaty be adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-016-091.u5	Thank you very much. And now I dare to open a debate in which I have no written application. I'll ask if any MPs report from the post? I look around, I see no one, I end the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in the Minister's final word? Minister, isn't there an interest in the final word? The rapporteur, is the Member interested in the final word? No, thank you. So now we're going to proceed to the vote. I would like to read the resolution on which we will vote: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Sri Lankan Democratic Socialist Republic on the transfer of sentenced persons." Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Thank you for the vote. It was the 170 vote, 128 Members were enrolled, 96 were in favour, no one opposed and 32 abstained. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing item 91. Now, according to the approved programme, we will be dealing with item number
