ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 48th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. To record our participation, I've just checked you all out, and I'd like you to sign up with ID cards, or I'd like to know who's asking for a replacement card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 1 December of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We shall therefore now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we appoint a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková. Does anyone else have a proposal for a verifier? I don't see anyone reporting, so there's no other proposal. We shall vote on the proposal tabled. I am opening the vote on the proposed verifiers of this meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 1 of this meeting, 109 are registered, for 107. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies for the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Barbora Urbanová and Renáta Zajíčková. I declare that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologize for their absence from the hearing by the following Members: Bašta Jaroslav for the whole working day, Benešík Ondřej for the whole working day, Berkovcová Jana until 17 hours for the reasons of work, Dražilová Lenka for the whole working day, Dvořák Jaroslav for the whole working day for health reasons, Fischerová Naiclerová for the Krutáková Hana David, Vrána Petr from 17.30 for the whole family reasons, Golasowská Pavla for the žáček Pavel Sládeček for the Šimek Karel day, Hájek Jiří for the whole working day, Havránek Jiří for the whole Karel day for the whole Karel day, Klíma Pavel for the whole working day for the whole Wenzl Milan, for the whole Kasal Jana for the whole working day, kolovratník Martin for the whole working day. They apologize from the members of the government: Fiala Petr from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Balaš Vladimír the whole day - foreign trip, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting also due to foreign travel, Blažek Pavel from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Černochová Jana from the whole day of the meeting for health reasons, Langšádlová Helena until 15.30 and from 16.45 for working reasons, Rakušan Vít from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Síkela Josef from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons and Válek Vlastimil until 16 hours for working reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, on 1 December this year, by decision number 50, on the basis of the Government's proposal, I extended the state of legislative emergency until 20 January 2023. In connection with the extension of the state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House press, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a shortened hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended, and other related laws, House press 351. By decision number 51, I decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing, and I ordered the House Press 351 to the Security Committee to discuss it and set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 13 December 2022 within 9 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, pursuant to § 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this. I don't see anyone reporting to the debate. If that - President Schillerová is reporting to the debate? No, that was something... okay. So we're open to discussion. No one's checking in. Since no one has applied, I am ending the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I remind you that we are voting on the resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I will therefore begin the vote on the proposal and please press the button and raise your hand as to who you are in favour. Who's against it? In vote 2 of today's meeting registered 148 present, for 75, against 3. The proposal has been adopted, so the proposal has been approved. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 48th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. I'm going to ask you to keep quiet, colleagues, so that you can see how the 48th meeting should take place this week. We therefore propose, first, to include a new item in the proposal for a programme, House Press 301/4, a bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, returned by the Senate. The legal time limits are met, from Tuesday 13 December the House's press can be discussed. Secondly, we propose the following procedure this week. Today, Tuesday, 13. 12., discuss the points in this order: the newly entered point first - the bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, House press 301/4, returned by the Senate; item 1 of the draft programme, i.e. the House press 351, measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine, shortened negotiations. I would also like to point out that, in the case of a pause for the drafting of amendments to this House of the Press, we will continue the points of the Act block - second reading, item 5 of the proposal for a programme, House press 312, government bill on association in political parties and in political movements; item 2 of the proposal for a programme, House press 106, government bill on certain services of the information society; item 3 of the proposal for a programme, House press 107, government bill on product market surveillance. Furthermore, points from the Act block - first reading: item 11 of the draft programme, i.e. House printing 288, government bill on the protection of employees in default of the employer, item 7 of the draft programme, House printing 238, government bill on investment companies and investment funds, item 23 of the draft programme, House printing 346, government bill on electronic communications, first reading under Section 90 para. 2. [[14.10 hours]] Wednesday, 14. 12. discuss the points in this order: points from the section Laws - third reading: paragraph 102 of the draft programme, House printing 270, of the proposal of Members of Karel Haas and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport; paragraph 103 of the proposal for a programme, House press 313, Government Bill on the Terms and Conditions of Business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors. Furthermore, points from the Act block - first reading: item 16 of the draft programme, House press 311, Government draft law on public health protection, item 18 of the draft programme, House press 328, Government draft law on a single environmental opinion, item 19 of the draft programme, i.e. the House press 329, Government draft law on a single environmental opinion - related. On the Gremium was announced the inclusion of paragraph 20 of the draft programme, House press 330, government bill of construction, first reading, for item 19 of the draft programme. If this proposal is adopted by vote, the Chamber of Deputies will act as follows on Wednesday: firstly, if this item is negotiated within 13.45 hours, there will then be an election point 109 of the proposal for a programme, and given that on Thursday 15. The 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is convened at 9 o'clock, the 48th meeting will be adjourned until Friday 16. 12. Secondly, in the event that this item is not negotiated by 13.45 pm, the Chamber of Deputies will continue to negotiate in the afternoon, from 15 pm, i.e. between 13 and 15.00 pm would be a lunch break. In this case, too, the Chamber of Deputies will suspend its negotiations until Friday 16. 12. Friday 16. 12. We propose that we continue the points from the block of the Law - second reading and the Laws - first reading, which were firmly included on Tuesday 13. 12. and have not been discussed. We would then discuss further points according to the draft agenda. In conclusion, points were discussed at the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 2 December: paragraph 104, House press 333, amendment of the Act on Electronic Acts, third reading, and paragraph 141, House press 327, draft budget of the State Cinematography Fund. Therefore, please do not apply them. No need to vote on this and points will not be included in the approved agenda. That's all on my side. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] The following Members have applied to the agenda - I, colleagues, will finally ask you to keep your voice down. If you have any conversations you need to have, I'm asking you to move them into the lobby. Before we keep our voice down, two more apologies have passed: Svoboda Bohuslav apologizes from 16 o'clock for work reasons and Minister Lipavskýý Jan until 14.30 for work reasons. The President Jakob is now in favour of the agenda, followed by President Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Weighted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u3	Once again, I'm gonna ask my colleague and colleague to be quiet so we can write down the drafts for the changes to the show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of five coalition clubs, I would like to make proposals for a meeting that did not have a consensus within the framework of the Gremia. Therefore, I ask for the following modification of the programme: today as the first point of the block of second reading, i.e. as the 3rd point of the overall, please include point 4 of the draft programme, which is the House print 285, the Government's bill on some measures against the spread of terrorist content online, then today as the 4th point of the first reading point 67 of the draft programme, which is the House print 165, the Senate bill on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic and on the amendment of some laws at first reading. Next, on Wednesday, 14 December, as the third item in point 99 of the draft programme, the House's press 280, the Government's draft law on coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office, and right behind it, i.e. point 4 on Wednesday, in the order of point 100 of the draft programme, the House's press 219, which is the Government's draft law relating to the adoption of the law on coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office. Then on Wednesday as the 4th point of the block of first reading, i.e. if the previous proposals, as well as the 8th point overall, point 20 of the draft programme, the House's press 330, which is the government bill - the construction law. Last but not least, I will ask you to include point 12 of the draft programme on Friday, Parliament's Press 289, which is the government's draft law on teaching workers, which is at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u5	I also thank you for the proposals made. So President Tomio Okamura is now on the list, followed by President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose as an extraordinary point at the meeting of this Chamber of Deputies a point called Due to the inactivity of the Fialův Government, food prices in the Czech Republic are increasing almost as quickly as possible in Europe. And now I would like to justify this point. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Food and consumer goods are cheaper in Poland and Germany than in the Czech Republic. According to her Prime Minister Petr Fiala's statement from the ODS last week... [[The speaker is turning to the President.]] Well, I'd just like to ask you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u7	Yes. I will also ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u8	According to his Prime Minister Petr Fiala's statement from the ODS last week, the current government is negative for a possible reduction in VAT on food, while we have one of the highest VAT on food in Europe of 15%, while neighbouring countries have 10 percent or less, or even a zero temporarily, as in neighboring Poland. Moreover, the Polish Government extended zero VAT from January to another six months. The current government has thus knowingly resigned from any effort to help citizens with astronomical growth in the cost of life's basic needs. The majority of European countries have already taken steps to reduce basic food prices, for example by combining VAT reductions to a zero rate and price ceiling, including all neighbouring countries of the Czech Republic. As a result of the inactivity of the Fialův Government, there is an undignified situation where Czech citizens are forced, for existential reasons, to go shopping in large numbers to Poland or Germany, where food and other consumer goods are often significantly cheaper than in our home. [[14.20 hours]] The reason for high food prices in the Czech Republic is that the current government, once again the only one in Europe, is not helping domestic farmers and food professionals with high energy prices, which we have the highest in Europe, year-on-year growth +67 %. Therefore, because of government inactivity, food prices in the Czech Republic are growing almost fastest in Europe, significantly more than the average inflation rate in some cases: flour, milk, oils, fats, prices are rising by more than 50 percent year on year. This is one of the basic reasons for the decline in the standard of living of our households and the inexcusable failure of the incompetent five-police government of Petr Fiala from ODS, which we believe should resign. According to the iDNES server's information from last week, 1.3 million of our citizens are already having serious financial problems, and most of them are still falling through a system of public social support and assistance due to its complexity, as well as the lack of workers at the employment offices. Prime Minister Petr Fiala from ODS and also incompetent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka are fully responsible for this. The average real wage of Czech working citizens fell most significantly in the history of the independent Czech Republic in the third quarter of this year after taking into account inflation, by 9.8% year on year. The standard of living of working Čech has thus fallen by a tenth this year. This is primarily the result of the actions of the harmful government of Petr Fiala from the ODS and its responsibility. The reason for the significant decline in wages is the steep rise in prices, the cost of basic living primarily caused by the Fialův Government. The government's inactivity and incompetence threatens to make the situation even worse next year, as energy-intensive operations will start firing workers and, as a result of high energy prices, companies' profits across sectors of the economy will also drop substantially, which is inevitably linked to a further decline in wage levels. The SPD movement repeatedly presents its proposals for solving this critical situation. On the one hand, we must stop and reduce inflation through measures to reduce energy prices, fuel, food and housing, a combination of price ceilings and indirect taxes. On the other hand, it is necessary to increase the net income of households by increasing tax reductions and tax advantages on dependent children, by increasing pensions mainly to low-income seniors and disabled people, as well as by all-rounding support for working families with children by increasing parental allowance, maternity or childbirth benefits. If the Fialův government does not want or cannot deal with the current unhappy situation in society, it must leave in the interest of the state. That is why the SPD movement in the Chamber of Deputies is starting to collect signatures to convene a meeting to vote on the distrust of the government of Petr Fiala. Petr Fiala's government is simply not taking sufficient systemic steps to protect our companies and citizens from the existential problems of energy prices. Firms restrict their activity, release and collapse, and citizens and households become increasingly energy poor. Energy poor people are becoming households whose housing spending is higher than 40 percent of their income, and this is currently the case with 648 000 citizens, with an additional 157 000 people on energy bills. 231,000 people live in underheated apartments and so on. The current government came up with regulatory instruments for a) late and b) poorly priced energy prices, very high above supplier's production and distribution prices. We have the most expensive energy prices from neighbouring countries, +67 percent year-on-year increase, and at the same time the smallest support for our citizens and companies, while we export cheap electricity. Government measures in Slovakia are such that electricity will not cost at all year-on-year, it is CZK 1.50 per kilowatt hour, and gas by 15 per cent, so even the 1.50 per kilowatt hour is four times lower than the Fialův government has done here, which I think is completely insane, what the Fialův government has done here. In total, the Slovak Government will spend EUR 6 billion on compensation for this measure in Slovakia to producers and energy suppliers, which is less than what the Czech Government intends to spend on similar compensation. This clearly demonstrates the total inability or intention to intentionally damage Czech households and companies by the government of five-wheelers, ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL STAN and Pirates, because price and other conditions for electricity production are fully comparable in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Moreover, the government has long been waiting for a Union solution that does not come because individual states take their own measures and have each other's so-called energy mix. We have been pointing this out since spring that no EU solution has come, it does not come, but the government has been naively waiting and lying to the public all along. This inaction of the Fialův Government will bring our country and its citizens into the great economic and social crisis, which will mean for a vast part of citizens and companies, and it also means literally a struggle for survival for many citizens. So, to repeat that, I would like to place as the first point in today's meeting a point proposed by the SPD called Due to the inactivity of the Fialův Government, food prices in the Czech Republic are increasing practically the fastest in Europe. And, of course, I have now justified this also from the point of view of government's inactivity on expensive energy. As a second point, I would like to propose another SPD point at this House meeting, and it is a point called the Fialův Government does not want to address citizens' social problems. And now I'd like to justify it. Serious financial problems already have 1.3 million Czech citizens. In fact, the government is not developing any activity in this regard in order to help these citizens in some way fundamentally. Of course, an extraordinary meeting is being convened on this subject on Thursday, but I think it is necessary to open it up, because I have announced that the government coalition will again not approve the agenda for the opposition emergency meeting to address the social support of the citizens needed. That is why I have decided to propose this point here as well. This means that we simply want this topic to be discussed, that the government should put forward some plan, some proposals, because you have not submitted any proposals here or in a year. And as I say, 1.3 million Czech citizens have serious financial problems. On Thursday, when there's an emergency meeting, you don't want to approve the agenda, only people with priority rights will be able to talk here. That means I'm gonna say something, someone's gonna say something, and that's the end of it. This is how the government approaches and mocks the citizens in need. This means that I think that we really should discuss this here, because the subject of the SPD point proposed by me should also be a scandalous amendment to the payment decree, which the government is making more expensive to social services for disabled citizens dependent on helping others without increasing their contribution to care. And the increase has been proposed here for a year, more than a year, by the SPD. Furthermore, we want the government to discuss simply supporting the proposal to increase parental contribution for parents who care for children under four years of age, which the SPD has also repeatedly proposed in the House by means of an amendment to the law and the members of the Fialův Government Five-Calice have always rejected it. So of course we want to, which is why I want to put it here as an extraordinary point, because millions of people are already in financial trouble because of the Fialův government, and we want this topic to be discussed here, so that the government can finally say what it's going to do, because so far you haven't done anything at all. [[14.30 hours]] As the third point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose a point called Due to the inability of the Purple Government to lack medicine in the Czech Republic. And now I'd like to justify it. In the Czech Republic, some of the basic medicines, especially penicillin, other antibiotics and temperature lowering drugs are currently missing in pharmacies to a large extent. Patients often have to wait for these medicines for several weeks. Drugs are also enormously expensive. According to the Association of Practicing Physicians, some medicines that cannot be easily replaced, such as blood pressure lowering and cholesterol lowering, are currently unavailable. This situation lasts at least since this September, this has to be stressed, the situation has been at least since this September, and we have December and the government of Petr Fiala does nothing at all. Minister of Health is Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09. The government just doesn't care, you don't care. You refuse to deal with expensive food, you refuse to deal with expensive energy, you refuse to deal with lack of medicine. After all, this country is in a completely catastrophic state in a year of your reign. It hasn't been here yet. Of course, the five-calice government of Petr Fiala from ODS is responsible for this situation, i.e. from ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates. And, as I was saying, of course, Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09. We in the SPD have long insisted that it is necessary to take measures to ensure a smooth supply of medicines, so I would like us to include as point 3 today on the proposal of the SPD a point that due to the inability of the Fialův Government, drugs are missing in the Czech Republic. Of course, I know that all my proposals will be rejected by Members of the Government of the Five-Calice. You're gonna reject them all in a minute, because you don't give a damn. You don't care what problems the citizens of the Czech Republic have, yet the problems are really fatal. As the fourth point, I would like to propose another really serious issue for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It would be a point called the Purple Government wants people to fully pay for all dental care. So I'm just going to do it again, so I'm suggesting a point here to discuss it, because, of course, the SPD fundamentally disagrees with that, the Fialův government wants people to fully pay for all dental care. Now I'd like to justify it. The High Representative of the Government's TOP 09, its long-time Chairman and currently Vice-Chairman of the General Health Insurance Agency - VZP Miroslav Kalousek said last week that he would remove basic dental care from public health insurance and that it would therefore have to be borne directly by citizens or under some kind of insurance. So, of course, here I would like to point out that this is totally unacceptable for the SPD, and this is illustrated by the totally antisocial nature and intentions of the politicians of the government coalition. This also follows the statements of the Minister of Health War of TOP 09 on the introduction of double standards of health care, lower for poorer citizens and higher for the rich. Even now, people pay significantly for dental care. In addition, as a result of the critical lack of dentists, dental surgery increases, which do not have contracts with health insurance companies, and patients pay for all treatments in full, such as 9,000 for tooth extraction, 8,000 for emergency treatment and so on. In this situation, excluding dental care from the public health insurance system would mean its factual inaccessibility to hundreds of thousands of citizens. At the same time, this would also pose additional risks, as untreated dental diseases threaten the overall health and lives of citizens and, in their consequences, impose a much higher burden on the health system. We reject these antisocial plans of government politicians Petr Fiala and TOP 09 and insist that all health care in the Czech Republic be provided to Czech citizens by means of public health insurance without any additional supplements. I'm talking about basic health care. So these are our points, and I am glad that our MP Jaroslav Bašta, who is our presidential candidate, basically the only one who said that if he succeeded, he would stick to the end of Petr Fiala's reign. That's what I think is the right political agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u9	Now, therefore, President Babiš has been given priority rights and then followed by President Schillerová on the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask the Prime Minister that I would like to obtain a recipe for Mr Bašta to make Petr Fiala's government come to an end, but that is as close as possible. I'd like to suggest... Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one more good day. I'm paired up with Mr. Rakušan, but I came to work, although I think my work is among the people. Mr. Jurečka's not here, so you're gonna enjoy me tonight. [[Let's hear it for members of the government coalition.]] I hope you'll listen well, because you know when I come, it's worth it. I would like to propose a new item entitled Evaluation of the fulfilment of the Petr Fiala Government's programming declaration, as the first item in today's negotiations. 17. 12. 2021 at 8 a.m., we had health risk advice. At 12:30 we rolled up the red carpet, I waited with the flowers for the minister, and I handed everything to Prime Minister Fial in the records, a beautiful letter. I was gonna start a tradition like the American presidents have that I'm gonna write something for him. By the way, no one has ever published the letter, and it would be nice if the Prime Minister, if he didn't hand over the office to himself, would continue to do so. I think we handed it over in bows. Everyone said that Babiš, like Trump, wouldn't want to leave the Strakovka, and we made a record of demise. And why am I talking about this? I'm talking about it because the government's programming statement that I have here... Saturday is December 17th, it's exactly a year since Petr Fiala's government started. In that year, the government didn't once come before the public to file accounts, because the government's programming statement was already such a weaker decoy of electoral promises. I don't understand why that is. When I was Prime Minister, I'm gonna show you our government's programming statement here, and that was the job of ministers to evaluate every six months. [[He's pointing to the O.R.]] We had 657 homework. This government's programming statement isn't even numbered. By the way, I was talking about it on June 24, 2019. Here's a statement from the media that we had 657 tasks compared to Sobotkův's government, which had 111 tasks. We, when we left, fulfilled almost 80 percent of the government's programming statement, and we also justified the percentages that we didn't. Prime Minister Fiala's government doesn't deal with this at all, there hasn't been an evaluation once. In fact, I have now read these statements, such as the Minister of Finance Stanjura in an interview for Lightning on November 23, 2022. Question: "The objective of the programme statement that the parental contribution, which is 300,000, will be " - the ANO movement should have been "regularized" in the programme, they ask. That's in the government's programming statement. The minister answers. "There are debates about valorization, but I'm against it now. We wrote this in the programme statement in December 2020 and in January 2021 and the situation changed." So I think that in every government the situation was changing, and in our government we had a dramatic period, and that was covid. The ODS is bragging today that they made it through the covid, but you didn't have one. You didn't have a covid, and you're bragging about not having a lockdown. Well, why would you? You've never had hospitals like us overwhelmed, you've never been in that situation. You didn't have to do anything about the covid. Yes, as part of the government's programming statement, we evaluated and wrote accounts. [[14.40 hours]] On 10 November, for Blesk, the Prime Minister said that the government would adjust the government's programming statement. That's incredible. You guys haven't even started filling yet. And I'll evaluate it for you today. Actually, the Prime Minister is talking about it and he says, "We're not gonna sit on it for months." Well, that's amazing. "After the end of the Presidency, we will start having a serious and intense debate on the adjustment of our programming statement. We have to do this." So what I'm asking is, was the government's programming statement meant seriously and seriously, or was it just a voter scam again? Because even the government's programming statement was fundamentally different from what you promised before the elections. So it's unbelievable. Of course, the media, which supported the government, and now, of course, criticize the opposition, say nothing about it. It's okay. There was nothing in a year. On December 5, the Prime Minister says: "There are huge challenges ahead of us that we have in the programming declaration, and we need to meet them. From the perspective of young people, it is, for example, a pension reform or a change in the education system." So if you've read the interview of the best Minister of Plaga, and I've always been fascinated when the new Minister of Education - I don't even know what his name is - when he got in, he said Plaga was a better minister, and Plaga left because he just couldn't. So pension reform. And then the Prime Minister says, what do you think our country should look like in ten years? So I would just remind you, and if someone - or one of the presidential candidates - says that politicians only think about four years of their term, then I would like to inform you that under our government, I came up with a National Investment Plan. That's the 2050 plan. There are 20,000 projects for 8,000 billion. It's kind of an investment catalog. And if those ministers were interested... But since it was produced by Babiš, of course it's not accepted. For example, such a health minister would know that he has 165 billion investments there, and he could choose from priorities, and he could push the Minister of Finance to get the money to do so. This government is still making excuses for the war in Ukraine. Yes, it's a terrible thing, it shouldn't have happened. And someone keeps saying it's harder than covid, and it's not true. It's not true! It is also not true that when we look at how gross domestic GDP developed in 2020, we had a fall of 5.5 percent. This year is +1.2 percent and next year 0.1, so it's a shallow recession. What we experienced - and we fought against the invisible enemy, what was covid - everything we had to organize, and you didn't help us at all, so it was much worse than the impact of the war in Ukraine. What is the impact of the war on Ukraine? Well, the impact of war in Ukraine is, of course, energy prices, food prices, yes, it is. I never said Fialův's price, although the Prime Minister said Babišův's price. We had a 5.3 inflation, and now it's 18, then it's down to 15, now it's back to 16. And yes, no one's hit, not even Governor Rusnok, who, of course, raised us here for Czech companies that have no access to the euro, we have the highest interest. So the government's programming statement-- let's talk about it, or are you gonna push it back? Yes, the war only affected the budget, the money. The Prime Minister is the master of Europe, he has the Presidency since 1. 7. He promised to arrange money in Europe for us, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Germany. All these states have accepted hundreds of thousands of refugees, and that is good. Yes, we took care of it. And the Prime Minister promised to arrange the money. When illegal migration from Syria - and is still - historically Greece, Spain and Italy, especially Greece, received billions of euros, billions of euros! And why didn't the Prime Minister push Europe, now that there has finally been an unblocking and aid for Ukraine of EUR 18 billion, so why didn't he make money for Poland and these states for us, right? The government took a loan of 10 billion. I think, if Europe always talks about solidarity, of course, it should have helped us. She was supposed to help us, and it would definitely help the budget and everyone, so I'm surprised that V4 colleagues didn't lobby. And by the way, the V4 in the government's programming statement - and I will read it afterwards - was there support, of course, if the Prime Minister would not have been banned from meeting the Orbán at all by the President of the House and Mr Bartoš, then now the first time in Košice was the V4 in one year. V4 has been effective and has achieved tremendous success. Yes, Poland has a different view of the war in Ukraine, Hungary has a different view. But these are the things that the Prime Minister, as the master of Europe, could also promote for the benefit of our budget. There will be one more piece of advice, and it would be nice if our Presidency ended with some tangible success for Czech citizens, for example, in helping countries that helped with refugees from Ukraine. And if Europe gives EUR 18 billion to Ukraine, that's fine, but I think it would be great if there were a few billion euros there for states that had a huge financial burden. So the government's programming statement per year -- no report, no billing, just that it's moved on to next year. And, of course, if we compare the pre-election vows and the current programming statement of the government, which is not being fulfilled at all, we will certainly be surprised at what this government will be making excuses for. I would start especially with a resort that, in my opinion, works worst of all, of all people. Mr. Jurečka isn't here. I think he went to check on my Facebook page. And I made that Christmas at 7:00 a.m. except the team gave it to me this afternoon. So Mr. Jurečka always deals with Christmas, solves how much oil is costing on the pump in the direction of Průhonice, solves illegal migration, solves fuel in Hungary, solves everything, only - even though he is a minister of three ministries, it was a very funny report on TV: when they asked who the Minister of Agriculture, five citizens or four replied that Mr. Jurečka. And the last one said he was a minister who understood nothing. [[14.50 hours]] But I would just like to point out that Mr Jurečka is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, a department which is the largest in terms of budget and which is the most important. So what's going on at the resort? Yes, Christmas is coming, and it is likely to be one of the hardest that many people, and unfortunately children, will experience in our country. Of course, the government keeps promising people that it won't let them fall, even paid the campaign so that people won't be afraid to go to the employment office and ask for a housing allowance, a child allowance, or even for benefits of material distress. But somehow she forgot that labor authorities are simply no longer able to handle such a strain on people. As a result of incredibly high inflation and enormous energy prices, many people who had not thought of it before find themselves on the poverty line and would already be entitled to benefits. To do this, we must add Ukrainian refugees, all of them flocking to the offices of work, where they sit miserable, yes, miserably paid, overloaded and desperate workers. The starting salary for the employment office is said to be around 20 to 21,000. This is truly scandalous, scandalous! But the government doesn't care. She doesn't care that the social system is collapsing because it just can't keep up, it can't keep up. And how did the MPSV deal with the management of the employment office? Imagine that they limited office hours by the end of the year. Well, they wouldn't really have invented that in Kocourkov. So that's the introduction. Now let's name things by their real name. The social system, which should be the detention network for people sinking into poverty, is collapsing. Petr Fiala's government constantly calls on vulnerable groups to request a housing allowance. It is unbelievable that the Prime Minister boasts that the number of people who depend on doses is increasing. I've never seen that before. The truth is that only a quarter of those who would be entitled to it are currently using it. But I think the whole government is praying in spirit that the remaining three quarters of the people who could apply for them will never reach the office. Why? Because he can't handle the system anymore. This may be brand new to you, but do you know that there are families who haven't received social benefits in months? Yes, a few months - not weeks, but months, not because they forgot to document something at the office or because their situation changed and they didn't need benefits anymore, but simply because the authorities are so overloaded that they can't keep up. Do you even know that we have mothers with severely disabled children who have been on welfare for years, and now maybe even the fourth month without income? And those are letters to the Agrofert Foundation, so I'm not making them up. Those are the letters from the mothers where I send my political income. So what is a mother supposed to do? Do you think the landlord can wait that long with the rent? Yet families with disabled children cannot take advantage of your great advice on how to save money. You can't lower the room temperature to a kid who's just lying there. You can't stop driving him to the doctors. Yes, it was the oil cropping on 36 crowns when our mothers told us that they would no longer drive children every day - disabled children, unfortunately - to the hospital and school, that they didn't have gas to drive every other day. That's when we came up with it, and I'm gonna get to it. So it's not possible for kids to stop driving their cars to doctors. You can't turn off the pulmonary ventilator to save energy. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have to admit, we are facing a huge disaster that may result in a family tragedy. And yesterday we had one tragedy, I don't even want to talk about it. Labour offices have a critical shortage of workers and workers. Do you know what a clerk's starting salary is? Yeah, that's what I was talking about, about 19 to 21 grand. You would go to a place where you would be under constant pressure and meet desperate people every day who would curse you or cry desperately in front of you? And the insults and desperation belong to you, Prime Minister and the ministers, Mr. Jurečka. At least one day you should go to the employment office, go check it out. We, when we ruled here with social democracy 208 days and worked online as a government 24/7, talked to all the directors of employment offices in the Czech Republic. Yes, the labour authorities have long since lost their role and are in a really desperate situation, and the Minister is handling this by taking a premium to the Director of the Office. Well, that's a really good motivation. It would be good to visit them. I've been to a job office recently, in Teplice. Whatever help the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs solves to people by adding more and more work to the labour offices - refugees, an extraordinary 5,000-dollar contribution, it's a crayon, an increase in benefits, and it's just continuing to overwhelm the authorities. So instead of helping the authorities, you cut the office hours. But there is no time for remorse and we must act. So at this very moment, people are coming up with a new schedule of advances for 2023. In many homes, they will be enormously increased. I'm sure you'll argue with the price ceiling. Excuse me, but the ceiling of CZK 6,000 is the same for a family in need as if the ceiling weren't. On February 18, 2022, I stepped out here and asked Minister Síkela to put the price of electricity up to CZK 1,500 per megawatt, because on February 16, 2022, the former Minister of Commerce Sulík, who called the Slovak power plants and said to them: "It will be CZK 1,500, otherwise I will tax you and I will not discuss it with you at all. [[Hour]] Then some other government came in, and right here our government said, "Well, this Babiš guy said it wasn't true... Well, it's true, Prime Minister Heger confirmed it. So the Czech Republic, which produces electricity from the core for CZK 500 megawatt, exports electricity to Slovakia, where citizens have CZK 1,500 megawatt. [[Hour]] [[Hour]] And with us, our citizens have 6,000 crowns, four times as much. Is this normal? Is that normal? We produce electricity the cheapest in Europe and our people have the most expensive, expensive in Europe. So if the backups are coming in now, and your ceilings, where you haven't even explained to those companies that are involved, how are you going to pay for it? I know you're gonna make a bank out of all businessmen and businessmen and employers, that's your famous windfall tax. It's just a bank. You borrow the money, and then in 2024 you find that they didn't actually report the tax, so you're going to pay it back. Well, brilliant, brilliant, to destroy our industry and our economy. So I'm gonna go back to the employment office. If all these people rush to the authorities, the system will collapse. There is a need to sit down and address the lack of staff at the employment office immediately. When he was a covid and we were doing call centers, only at the government's office we singled out about thirty, forty people, all the ministries separate people to help. So why don't you take the clerks and send them to the labor authorities to help? There's a shortage of workers, so what do we need? New contact points where people can ask for benefits. We need simplification of income and payment of benefits. But most of all, we need you to finally wake up and understand that the solution is not to push other people and others into the welfare system, because once you fall into poverty, it is very hard to get out of it, especially in our country, where the system is catastrophically demotive and keeps on the doses and people who could work, but it just doesn't pay off. However, this is for a longer discussion, which must necessarily come first thing after we get out of this crisis. [[15.00 hours]] Now we simply - or you and we call on you to do this - must not let middle-class people fall into poverty, too, and that is what is happening, it is already happening. And I think that perhaps all of us here understand that we cannot support more and more families from social benefits in the long term. It just can't be done, no state budget is enough for that. The government needs to wake up and understand that if we don't give people and businesses and employers and businessmen energy at prices that correspond to its production prices, then we'll never stop the train running into poverty again. Families cannot pay their bills, people will lose their jobs, because businesses will fail, and the social system will no longer be able to help those who are in it, and must be, in the long run, for example, families with disabled children. So, of course, the solution to energy was simple. I'll get to that. Now, what's going on at Minister Jurečka's Resort. Mr Ombudsman says: overloading social workers puts children at risk. In the Czech Republic, there is a risk of the collapse of the institutions of social-legal protection of children, the so-called OSPOD, and the situation is so serious that he wrote to the Minister. So it's not working. Social workers help people from socially weak and otherwise excluded families, along with solving their educational problems, and according to Křeček, the state adds more and more responsibilities to social workers, which makes their work even more difficult. So that's another thing, and I could, of course, talk about other things here. Well, I received a letter on those visits. Minister Jurečka writes: "Dear employers" - he had already sent a letter to all pensioners, I was also a pensioner, so I received a letter and there he actually shows a job that he was not involved in, because of course the Act on increasing income on inflation did not enforce this government or our government, it was before and it is by law. So the minister here writes, he's doing a questionnaire inquiry. He informs here that he increases support for part-time jobs, new rules for home offices, IT retraining, and then he prepared a proposal to launch cursarbeit in case there was an acute lack of gas. Well, that's really incredible, interesting information. So I think the Minister is simply dealing with it by touching the Director's fees and having a debate with the Director. Well, it would be good to maybe go out in the field and do that micromanagement thing you always criticized for me. So I would really recommend it, because this is the main problem with the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, the collapse of labour offices. Indeed, the solution is not limited to people's visits, but the solution was simple. You had a unique, unique opportunity to privatize CEZ, yes, the one you put in the coupon, yes, you still had the insolence to accuse us of privatizing something, our government. No, we saved ČSA, we bought a 70 million-dollar OKD, today thrives, coal over gold. And how were you supposed to do that? Well, you haven't been able to agree on who's gonna sit on that board. And I understand that the pirát' proposals they gave to Minister Stanjur were really interesting, but you didn't agree to that either. And what were you supposed to do? Well, you should have done that today's share of the shareholders in CEZ according to the current price on the stock exchange is a circus of 120 billion, the undivided profit of CEZ is 200 billion. So you should have called Šnobr and Couples. and say to him, "Hey, let's make a deal, sell us the shares, just like Macron did at EDF - Électricité de France - that's French CEZ - because you guys today, CEZ, we all need it as a 100% firm, the only state firm. Well, of course we still have CHPRO, luckily I saved it too, because the guys wanted to privatize it too. So you could buy out the ČEZ and agree: We'll pay off the undivided profit of 200 billion. CEZ could even buy out its own shares here. You could get 100 percent of ČEZ, yes, the ČEZ, which we parked lithium on and convinced ČEZ to buy lithium, the fraudulent project of the same gentleman who leaked OKD - and there it is, lithium is in Czech hands. And of course, if you're still bragging about how you arranged the LNG - yes, ČEZ did. You and CEZ signed a five-year lease in the Dutch port of Ems, and it's a good decision, which I support, certainly, yes, LNG, sure. But you had it short, and you can still do it - you can still do it, because simply minority shareholders are not interested in building Dukovany. Minority shareholders are interested in making as much money as possible for ČEZ. And who does CEZ make money on? On all of us, on all citizens of the Czech Republic, on all companies that are collapsing. JUTA The King's Court doesn't know what to do, whether to make stock, or to let people go at 60 percent. Czech porcelain, Karlovy Vary porcelain, everyone has a problem. You were supposed to be helping this year, so I'm asking you to do it. Call an extraordinary general meeting, make a deal with Snobre, buy it out at 100 percent, and you'll finally have one company to build everything on. CEZ has 20 percent gas distribution today, CEZ is the largest electricity producer. Windfall tax? And who's gonna pay it, the windfall tax? 150 billion goes out, and what about private electricity producers? Well, they optimize. One went to Liechtenstein, and what will the others do? You've never done business, so you don't know how businessmen behave. Yes, under the law. So he can do it and you can put it on CZK 1,500 megawatt for everyone and you will settle everything, all citizens of the Czech Republic will have CZK 1,500 megawatt, just like the Slovák. [[for]] [[Hour]] [[for]] [[Hour]] Why are we all paying 6,000 here? Big companies, how much do they have in Germany? 3,700. You didn't even give the big companies anything. You keep saying, small, medium, yeah. And what would those small, medium-sized businesses do without big companies like JUTA or Preciosa or other companies that give jobs to thousands of people? So I'm telling you, do it, everybody's gonna be happy, Šnobr and co-worker. they leave with a package, the state will be 100 percent and you can build a new energy strategy on that. I mean, the Prime Minister told us a while ago that he's gonna nationalize all the manufacturers. Well, I don't know how he's gonna do it, but here it is on your plate. Here you go. You're 70 percent there, so do it. I know you don't understand, but ask those who understand, because that's what it is, and it's a unique opportunity for you to solve it, and you'll be heroes. Everyone's gonna applaud you, everyone's gonna have 1,500 crowns. Why do we have the most expensive electricity? Why Macron, and Macron put it at 46 euros, that's $1,150, that's why Macron has the lowest inflation, now he's second to Spain, but he was 6.5 percent. You were 18, then 16, then 15, now you're off again, so that's what it's about, and that's what it's all about. That's all that's bothering all of us - citizens, employers, entrepreneurs - and it's easy and it won't cost a dime, because it's gonna be a state firm, and you could have done it, okay? So that's what this is about, and speaking of which, please, last week, of course, you were discussing Hungary, because you think Viktor Orbán is my only friend. No, even Macron is my friend, even Wolfgang Schäuble, head of the German Bundestag, is my... I have a lot of friends everywhere, okay? And I understand why you're doing this, but it's great that there was an agreement after all. There has been an agreement between the European Commission and Hungary supported Ukraine. It was not negotiated by the Prime Minister, but of course other politicians negotiated it for him. [[15.10 hours]] And just to remind you, we were suggesting a fuel shower when they were over 50 crowns when the single moms didn't want to go to school with the kids. Yes, 36, why? Because that was the line where CECPRO works. And the Maďar made a lot of mistakes. They're down to 28, they didn't help importers, yes, they didn't forbid the aliens to refuel, and they don't have CHPRO. ČEPRO is a unique distribution system. He's got pipes everywhere, he's got magazines everywhere, and he's connected to the Bratislava refinery. So you were here comparing things that are incomparable, and I stand by it that you should have done it. And by the way, the contribution to the mobility of singles increased from 600 I think to 900 crowns, that is truly shameful. Shameful! So it's the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. You guys are in that chapter in the government's programming statement - I don't know if I'm gonna turn it in right now - the pension system. Chapter of social and family policy, you have in the government's programming statement: "We will support shorter jobs, including favourable taxation by discounting insurance contributions, overall increasing the flexibility of the Labour Code in the interests of employers and employees. Public administration and organisations will set an example in the offer of reconciliation of work and care for their employees." Reality - partially fulfilled. What about this promise? "We aim to focus on the specific needs of single parents, families with more children and families with disabled members." You increase the payment order from CZK 135 to 155, which for some carers will mean smaller hours of care for their member at home. [[Number]] You get people in trouble. The hand in hand should go to that increase in the care allowance. Why don't you raise it, the donation? Here further: "We will support the development of palliative care including field care, children's hospice care and professional accompanying surviving families in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. We will clarify and support a network of family counselling facilities in crisis, services and activities aimed at primary prevention. We will unite the care system for endangered families and children from three resorts to the MPSV gesture. The name MPSV - this is very important - "let's complete the family theme." That's a really great program! Reality - not met. You got nothing. And here I can read all the promises you made in the government's programming statement, and it's a whole page. You guys are bragging about the bonus you're supposed to get for the retired mothers for every child you've provided for. No, you didn't. That's what our government has done with social democracy, so that's the truth. Because you're either criticizing our government, and you don't want to do anything on our terms, even if it was good projects, or you're showing our work for yours. And now the question is, what should the Czech Republic do about pensions? You're talking about implementing some kind of retirement reform. Yes, we have been talking about this here since the Czech Republic was founded, and our government has been counting on pension reform to start, and it has defined practical steps that would be appropriate to take. However, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs took its own course and created a committee for fair pensions led by Professor Nerudová. As a result of this commission's work - and there they all sat, all the political parties were represented there - was a completely useless proposal, which, although he knew exactly how to jump up pensions to all pensioners, but he was not interested in where to take money for such a senseless increase in pensions. It was just a waste of time. So the reform, yes, let's talk about it. You're not talking to us about anything. You invited us twice to a meeting about Ukraine, but you never wanted to discuss economic matters with us. So I therefore believe that the pension scheme, or pension insurance, must be changed gradually and step by step, eliminating its imbalances and changing its parameters. The current system has proved to be successful, as it also works in other developed countries of Europe. And we also talked about not stopping some professions and some people from paying pension insurance only at the basic rate, but then they only get the basic amount. So let them make reserves for their retirement in some other way. But that's the debate, but the Minister doesn't talk about it. The Minister has told us that the next government - I do not understand why it is talking about the next government, I assume that your one hundred and eight will last until 2025, because it is clear that you are at the top of your career - so Minister Jurečka told us that the next government will therefore deal with a later retirement. Why? Why? You have money, you still make excuses for not having money. For us, we've had great ratings, we've outrun Spain and Italy in terms of GDP, and don't say you're in debt. We still have the sixth best finances in the European Union. And to conclude with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Excuse me, I've been to the Haj Municipal Authority in Silesia, and the mayor has already renovated one of the senior homes, okay? It's cost him $46 million, and now he wants to reconstruct another one. And I have here, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - by the way, this program and the money in the government, when we decided the money from Europe for the next programming period, the 980 billion, so of course it was a huge struggle between ministries, but we pushed because, in terms of the capacity of senior homes, we're in a very bad way in bed-to-age ratio, so we pushed through, and I don't know if it stayed there, 3 billion in investments in senior homes, Alzheimer's centers and so on. Why am I talking about this? Challenge 1 is announced here. 8. 2022 and it is the implementation of the project of residential care services within the framework of the National Recovery Plan. And I don't get it at all, that's what the mayor's asking why you dictate to senior homeowners, and here it is a community, these are obviously regions, that the ratio of single rooms and double to capacity should be a maximum of 30 percent of the capacity of double rooms. I don't understand why you're talking to them. Well, let your officers take you out into the field, let them visit and let them explain it, because, for example, the mayor here is ready to invest, but here he is de facto disqualified, and it would be good if I were often criticized for not going to work - this is my job, talking to people, talking to the mayors, and then telling the minister if he could kindly look at it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u11	Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to warn you that we're on the agenda, not in the interviews, so I'm going to ask you to state the reasons for that. You've been doing it for about 40 minutes, so we're going to come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u12	I'm rationalizing him. [[15.20 hours]] So it's the government's programming statement. We now have a unique opportunity - we had - the Presidency since 1. 7. So I ask, and I propose that the meeting discuss this, the Presidency. The Presidency has several priorities. The first priority was the management of the refugee crisis and the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine. The government says she did it, but I already talked about it, we didn't get any money. The results of the work of Minister Rakušan are what? He didn't know who was coming to us. There are still rumors that there are 350 000 Ukrajinec in some regime, but state insured people - for new Ukrainian citizens - are only 60,000. The results of Mr. Rakušan's work: here he says illegal migration is rising, yes, and then crime has increased by a fifth year on year. Well, I don't see how that's possible. Energy security was the second priority. Minister Síkela is a record player in the council. Prime Minister from 1. 7. not one extraordinary European Council has been convened. Yes, it's called by Charles Michel, but all you have to do is call him. We called him when there was a problem in Belarus. Emmanuel Macron, France had the Presidency from 1 January to 30. Six, seven, seven! advice, three of which were extraordinary. And the Prime Minister didn't have one, because the Prime Minister avoided it from the beginning. Our government was approved on 13 December 2017 to fly to Brussels on 14 December 2017 and I was looking forward to the European Council because that is where Czech interests are promoted. The Prime Minister left it up to me. On 13 December 2021, the V4 was in Budapest with Macron - yes, in Budapest, it is terrible for the current government, because we will speak to other countries to vote on and so on - and on 16 December the European Council on emission allowances, on energy, was important, but the Prime Minister was not in a hurry. So the first advice he went to was until February 17th, that was Macronův. So what's the result in energy security? I don't know, about the fifth board now, Mr. Síkela - the record-breaker. And he's definitely trying and he's saying he's gonna find a pan-European solution. But other states have already found it, because other states are there for their citizens, and they have already solved it, unlike us. So there's no ceiling on the price of gas. The Council passed a windfall tax which the Czech Republic did not want. We preferred the Iberian model. By the way, Spain and Portugal have had their electricity racked up even at CZK 1,000. So, yes, LNG tanks -- that's solved, joint gas purchases, definitely. Here was the Emir from Qatar on October 6th at the meeting and it was organized by Macron, Macron came up with a project by the European Community, and there were 44 presidents and prime ministers from all over Europe, but the Emir got angry and left. And what's the result? That Qatar signed a LNG contract with Germany for 15 years. And the minister - here he was - there he was, I think he was opening some kind of embassy or I don't know what. But the result is just zero, zero. So that's it. The Presidency did not negotiate early support for large companies. Yes, of course, some films consider leaving. Then we had the strengthening of European defence capabilities and cyberspace security. Within the Presidency, the government is showing, yes, the conclusion of two directives - ensuring a high level of cyber security and a directive on strengthening the resilience of critical institutions. But it's not your work, it's not your work, it's been worked on for years. I am fascinated by the fact that, for example, the Minister of the Interior boasts that Croatia will enter Schengen on January 1, 2023, and shows it as its work. That was eight years ago. And if you don't have a Zajíček and other people from the Office of the Government, then your presidency is completely useless. You came to the Office of the Government, you brutally fired people who had nothing to do with me, only that they were unlucky to have worked as officials within the state, but since they worked with Babiš, they had to be executed. Well, unfortunately, I'm so sorry. I'm curious, you should give this Zajíček a gold medal, without him you'd have nothing at all. The Prime Minister didn't want to deal with it at all. He found Bek. I don't know what he was up to. And thank bůh for Pojar, at least he understands, and at least he's doing something there. So that's your balance sheet. We've prepared everything for you. A new garden in the tricolor, a new terminal, a new canteen. And the media that's rooting for you, so there's a budget for a new office space, and you didn't even give it to them, so shame, well... So the Presidency, please - the chip act, Macron came up with it. And the fact that France was there in front of the Czech Republic, it was a huge chance for the Prime Minister to go around Europe all June and prepare at least one extraordinary European Council, which Charles Michel would certainly have called together without any problems, and where he would have sold everything the Czech Republic wanted. But I don't know, the result, what is it? So he's just showing up. Then, of course, we have emission allowances. The Prime Minister blamed me in the debate that emission allowances - so how? So how did you do it, what's the result? I am in - now I will find it here - in September 2001, here I have it, 28 September 2021 - "Babiš has spoken for setting the upper limit of the price of emission allowances paid by coal power plants or industrial enterprises per tonne of carbon dioxide." [[Flicks]] And I said, first of all, I lobbied for abolishing the MiFID directive that it was meaningless. I wanted to put a price on 30 euros, because it is not possible for speculators to simply influence the price of emission allowances, and Europe completely failed to do so. Here - here's the latest evolution of emission allowances: December 13th, that's today, that jumped to 88.6. And you know why? Because this week, the United Kingdom has announced that after 30 years it is opening a coal mine. Yes, you can hear it well, so it goes back to coal, it goes back coal. And Europe, which - and Timmermans, who did not understand at all that it would destroy Europe with the Green Deal that was planned? It'll end with coal, there'll be gas, and then some technology that no one's ever thought of before. And now that the gas doesn't want to, you should probably say, unfortunately, we're wrong and we're going back to coal. And why did it end? Because coal power plants pay for emissions. That's why it ended. So if CEZ makes a megawatt for 500 kroner, because it has written off Dukovany and Temelín, then coal, electricity, it's the 500 plus emission permits. Yes, it is, so it's who understands, knows what I'm talking about, and the Prime Minister yelled at me that I didn't do anything. Well, I wrote x letters, I got other states, and that was the basis for helping ours and everyone in Europe not to pay so much for electricity. So emission allowances is the result of zero, but of course we read in the media how amazing the Presidency was and how it all works. [[15.30 hours]] And about migration: I enjoyed it when - and I don't understand it at all - I enjoyed the fact that the Prime Minister and the Slovak Prime Minister met in kramářův's villa, where they solved the fact that the Czech Republic introduced controls at the border with Slovakia, where about 5,500 Syrian migrants came, who are holding them back, then returning them to Slovakia - yes, then the Slovák swear, our people are waiting at the border and they said that the solution is on the Serbian-Hungarian border - well, good day, gentlemen, good day, Mr Rakušan too. I said it in 2015, I was on that border, North Macedonia and Greece. Thousands of migrants came from Schengen and our police officers held them back, successfully. I was also at the border built by Viktor Orbán in 2015, 170 kilometers, 900,000 migrants, illegal, were detained there. Our police officers were also there and detained 6,000 migrants, and smugglers even from the Czech Republic. So that's somewhere else to be dealt with, Prime Minister. And why weren't you in Belgrade when the Austrian Prime Minister and the Serbian President and the Hungarian Prime Minister signed the agreement to defend the Schengen border? No? We weren't there. The reform of the European Union's migration and asylum policy has not moved anywhere. I don't understand. If I were Prime Minister now, I'd call the Austrian Prime Minister to ask him why he's resisting why he's vetoing Bulgaria and Romania's entry into Schengen. Why? Why is he stopping it? If - and if any experts, I won't say that name - they say, and I'll show you around... [[He's showing the map.]] This purple is Schengen, and some say that they cannot be states in Schengen if they are not members of the EU. This is nonsense and a lie because there is Switzerland, Norway and Iceland in Schengen! And here we have Romania and Bulgaria and this Bulgarian, who is defending at sea against smugglers. And I have always said that we should take the Western Balkans to Schengen to defend Europe at sea, at sea! And if the Austrian Prime Minister or the Home Secretary is blocking it, then the Prime Minister's job, who is the head of Europe, is to go to him and say to him: Why, for what reason? After all, I was the one who visited Frontex in Warsaw as the only one of all prime ministers besides Polish, who has it around the corner, I was at a conference in Malta, Sicily, we were discussing Libya and so on, I know something about it. And Europe couldn't even do that. So one more time. [[He's showing the map.]] Iceland and Norway came to Schengen in 2001 and, for example, Cyprus is a member of the EU but is not in Schengen. So Europe - and I think that entry into Schengen is much easier than taking someone to the EU, so that is a problem - and illegal migration is back on the table. Smugglers, yes, the smugglers, they're - there's a lot of people from Germany, Austria, Ukraine. And when we had our cops there, as they were in Hungary, it was so interesting when one of the policemen said to me, well, imagine that we arrested a smuggler who was from the Czech Republic from the same village as me. And what are the smugglers doing there? Well, they charge thousands of euros, load up the illegal migrant with a cell phone, take him to Germany. That's how it works. So, Prime Minister, you need to go into the field, which I think is important. So there's no result either, I'm sorry. Well, I understand the Prime Minister may have a different opinion about it, but what can be done? Let's talk about inflation now. We hear here how bad Babišův's government caused inflation, right? We gave the elderly money, we raised wages, we reduced taxes, and I always said with exaggeration that we were doing the left-wing program in the government, and we did the right-wing work in the House for a while. Yes, we canceled the super gross wage, and I told the president again on Sunday that it was good, because those people didn't take the money, they didn't run into the shops, and they didn't hit one roll for three crowns, and they cost a hundred. No, in our government, population savings have increased by over 900 billion, and thank God people now have some reserves so they can pay those crazy electricity bills. So the inflation: Governor Rusnok missed. He's been telling us since 1:00. 7. it goes down, so it jumped to 18 and yesterday it jumped to 16.2, respectively according to Eurostat statistics it is 17. And now I'm going to read you a report from the Czech Statistical Office on 10 December 2021. Drop... lower electricity prices by 16,2 % and natural gas by 11,5 % contributed to the monthly decline in the price of the housing section. This decrease in consumer prices was due to the remission of VAT on electricity and natural gas prices. Yes, we were making inflation at 5.3. And what does the Czech Statistical Office say now? Mrs Šedivá here says: "The consumption prices rose by 1.2% in November compared to October and by 16.2 year on year. Thus, the overall price level accelerated again after a month's break. This was partly contributed to last year's lower benchmark, when VAT for electricity and natural gas prices was forgiven." Clearly, the clerk doesn't write that Babišův's government forgave VAT, it would get fired immediately, but here it's black and white. [[With laughter.]] So who's talking about inflation? This makes sense that we gave people money and stopped inflation by reducing VAT, and the Prime Minister gave almost nothing, because the housing supplement is fun, and so is the crayon. Now yes, it is true that the government has finally forgiven the renewables fee since 1 October. Yes, you're a year late, but thanks for that, at least something. And plus the energy tariff. You promised 15,000! And where did it end up? Three and a half or what it is. Well, the thing is, Minister Stanjur is happy with the inflation, because he says, "I'm not going to raise taxes." But he's actually increasing them because they're inflationary taxes. That inflation is an inflation tax. This is true by everyone, he is looking forward to getting the 117 billion he kept in the budget by the end of November, and of course he doesn't want to give it back to people. So perhaps even the media always ask that question, and the Prime Minister always argues that Babiš, the government of Babišův, caused the inflation. Well, I don't see how, because everyone will understand that savings have gone up, Petr Fiala's government has given almost no money to people, and it has very high inflation again. So that's the result, and hopefully that's... But if you don't understand, you won't. This is actually the government's programming statement, and that's basically the government's programming statement isn't even numbered. [[He's browsing in the background.]] It doesn't have numbers, it's not homework, it's some kind of declaration, so I don't know if they're gonna rewrite the whole thing or what they're gonna do about it. Or would it really be necessary to know why she did it, the government, the government's programming statement, what about who it is for, why it is? Just because they promised, who? [[With laughter.]] And making excuses - I don't know what the government's making excuses for, I don't know, really. I'm fascinated by the preamble. That's the second sentence, the second sentence, that's January 2022: "We're going to have to deal very quickly with a whole series of negative phenomena coming from the outside, but for a significant part, they're also an unfortunate consequence of a series of past government decisions" - well, imagine, high inflation, covid epidemics, I don't know, I don't remember having a covid here under the Fialův Government, that was an omicron and hospitals were totally fine. It wasn't that we fought for the lives of people, we had to make the capacity of beds and so on. So this is really great. And the consequences of the energy crisis, yes, of course. But I'm not saying it's the Fialův government, I'm not saying it's the government's fault. It's the government's fault that it's not fighting inflation, that it didn't cause it, yes, it didn't, but it's not helping people. And that's what I'm talking about, the ceiling. [[15.40 hours]] It was such a novelty to this government that Poland came first. It is true that it has already started with Matovič so that Slovák said that the Čech are not in the first place. And the Prime Minister could visit with Mr Morawieckýý Biedronka in Poland, a large Polish chain where you can allegedly see two prizes. One price is the current selling price and the price before the Polish Government reduced VAT to zero. Well, what else do we have here in the government's programming statement? Here we have it for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In the programme statement: "We will develop as close as possible friendly relations at all levels with our neighbours and strategic partners within the EU. Cooperation in the Visegrad Group will be part of our links at all levels." So cool. I am glad that the TOP 09 and the Pirates finally allowed the Prime Minister to take part in the V4. He was scared from the start, so now in Košice they finally talked. [[The Foreign Minister supplies off the microphone: I was there too.]] Oh, great, once a year. I was calling it in on text messages, you know, the protocol was totally crazy because through protocol before you called four premieres to the scene, so I texted them. It worked perfectly. But we all have different styles of work. So foreign policy. Yeah, the Bakalovs are already singing the ode, as it was all amazing, as it was fantastic, the Presidency. Too škoda, it's once every 13 years. It was much more successful than we had the Promopro and the fall of the government, but we put it on your plate. I won the Prague Castle, too, because the officials wanted the Congress Center, so that's enough. When we had an informal summit in Port in the sports hall or somewhere else, I knew that Prague Castle would be won by that, and Macron made us a summit, so great. It's too bad you didn't push for anything else. And I'm curious, I mean, Mr. Síkela already has fifth or sixth advice on what, if he really believes it. The minister here also declared with Mr Síkela that if there was no gas, the Němec would be such friends that they would stop producing and send us the gas. But I don't think we want to go back to that. Well, what other promise is there? "Responsible management and economic growth will be supported by a predictable rate of investment" - so please, the reality is that total investment in 2023 is falling from 2022, which was 204.3 billion and will be only 202.8 in 2023. And it's incredible how the finance minister can actually manipulate the budget, because SFDI, an organization that, of course, finances the ŘSD and the Railway and Motorway Administration, the railroad, is short of 30 billion. He's not putting the 30 billion into a deficit, and he's funding it de facto out of budget, because, as we know, the state has no discretion. And he just pretends the money's there, but he doesn't have it in his budget. Then you have a promise there "to restore public finances and restore citizens' confidence in a fair and fair state. There are two key tasks facing the government of the Czech Republic in the area of economics." The reality is that the government has resigned to its promises about consolidation of public finances, and the overall debt has an increase of more than 1,200 billion over the entire parliamentary term. The outlook for government debt is to reach 3 726 billion in 2025 and in 2021 it was 2,567 billion. But you as a government, you're incredibly lucky, and you know what? By being inflation, your GDP is going up, which means you still have a good percentage of GDP debt, okay? We didn't have it, our GDP fell to 2020, and we still ended up with a lower debt to GDP by 2021 than we started in 2014. Therefore, making more and more excuses for the fact that there is no money, perhaps it is not true. The structural balance of 2022 is -3,1, 2023 -3, 2024 -3 and 2025 -2,9. I think Mrs Schillerová, when she was a secretary, had a consolidation plan by 2025. And most of all, your problem is that you don't even solve income, you don't solve income! You promised to cut by 100 billion, savings. EET, that was awful fame. Everyone's excited. Everyone's not gonna be showing sales again. People know that where there's no credit cards, it's probably not gonna be okay. So revenue at all is unknown when the Prime Minister - and I have always wanted my ministers to present how much the state finances, pre-finances European subsidies, because the abnormal system - instead of waiting for Europe to pay, and then it was possible for Czech subjects, yes, so it is the other way around, so it is pre-financing and then it is requested. And that's where the balance always went to $60 billion, $70. I wonder how much you have there now, if you're even dealing with it, if the Minister even knows that European funding is the source and income of the state budget? Well, I'm not quite sure about that. We canceled the EET, yes. "We will prevent tax evasion" - and the reality that you canceled the EET. That was the basic law against tax evasion, yeah, the gray economy. "We will address the issue of foreign dividend flows in order to increase the attractiveness and investment in the Czech Republic by disadvantaged reinvestments back into the Czech economy." [[an advantage?]] Please, I'd like to see some investor who's read your pre-election programs, your government's programming statement, and now you come in, and normally you come in with a windfall tax, Mr. Stanjura now talks about raising VAT. By the way, thanks to EET, we reduced VAT in restaurants - not only in restaurants: water, sewerage, actually food, soft drink, brewed beer from 21 percent to 10 percent, and it brought out money. So I don't know who would want to invest here if they found out during the reign that the government was simply not telling the truth. So how do you solve the issue of the dividend drain, I'd be very interested. We had great ratings. Now that investors see what's going on here, you've really upset them. "We're going to take a hard step against illegal gambling" -- well, you've amused me. We made the gambling bill, we wiped out the vending machines. How much work was that? And the fact that gambling is influential, of course, is what I experienced here as the Finance Minister when I wanted to raise taxes and everyone overruled me. Here's one of your colleagues here has come to say that he wants to cut taxes for Mr. Komárek, who privatized Sazka. She should never have been privatized, she should have stayed in the hands of athletes you don't have money for now. That's one of the lowest taxes in Europe. And there was some attempt to cut that tax by 1.3 billion, well, that's really weird. Then you have other things: "We will increase the VAT registration limit to 2 million and on the same line the possibility of applying the flat-rate tax scheme will shift. " I think it started with Secretary Schillerová. We pushed for the novel, you took it from us, now it's complicated, and basically there are some bands created there. I don't know if anyone knows anything about it. Your promise: "We will reduce employers' social security by 2 percentage points, provided that there is a consolidated long-term maintenance of public finances." Of course, we already know that this is just a promise that will never be fulfilled. "We're going to set up tax breaks for the amount of income for families who receive parental allowance or have three or more children." This issue has not opened up at all. The budgets of municipalities and regions, yes: "Citizens and regions will receive more money from the mining of mineral resources on their territory through taxation. We will also remember the surrounding villages." Well, that's what I started doing when I joined the Finance Minister. I don't know when you're gonna start, already. The year's gone and nothing's happening. [[15.50 hours]] "Consumable taxes will take into account harm." Sure. So the things that are here... "In Europe, we will promote nuclear energy." Yes, we did. Now here you have a promise: "The Czech Republic must also step up between innovation leaders and further develop the potential of digital and new technologies in its favour. We will therefore place emphasis on quality education, support for research and development, the introduction of innovation and the necessary transition to a sustainable and digital economy." And what's the result? You've been distancing yourself from the Country for the Future brand. Yes, innovative strategy, Havlíček came up with it, it's until 2030. We've canceled the entire department that had Prime Minister Bělobrádek there, we've linked the ministries, it's worked, we've raised the budget, and you've just canceled it, unfortunately. Social policy. What's very interesting is that health - I don't really know what health is. I had so many agendas under me. We have made a plan of the Czech Republic, a reform of psychiatric care. Did you read that article in iRozlas, what's going on in pediatric psychiatry, how is it hell that they're not? What we've been promoting - I've been talking about it on my show, I'm not gonna say it here again. But I do not understand why the Minister, who, of course, canceled everything that we advocated - the national fight against cancer, the state-of-the-art cancer hospital in the Czech Republic, perhaps in Europe, should stand here in Prague. Prague students go to Yellow, this is Masaryk's Cancer Institute in Brno. At least that's where we pushed - and I hope they'll build - a billion-dollar pavilion of prevention. And now I hear that of the 15 billion I fought for the national cancer struggle, there's supposed to be some kind of connecting hallway, a billion or so. This is unbelievable. You can't be serious. You banned the brochure I've been promoting here. Mr. Jurečka screamed it was a campaign. Well, we're handing it out now because it was our fantasy. And I am proud that we did it, that we said: People, you have to go to prevention, because unfortunately today 75 people will die of cancer in the Czech Republic and 200 people will get sick. That's what this is about. But you, as part of the political struggle and this, have just said to the VZP that they mustn't give the brochure. Mr. Okamura has broken into our dental strategy here. I was in the Hustopaches, you were there with us. [[She's turning to Mrs. Schiller.]] There were 200 people waiting to register for the dentist, in Dentistry. Why? Because one of the dentists left. Why? Because the mayor of Great Pavlovic said to her, "We need you here, leave the clients behind." Yes, we had a project of 45 dental centers 24/7, because with us 40 percent of people simply go to the dentist only when something hurts, and only when there is an acute condition. And that's what we wanted for those people for free. Yes, that's what we wanted. And what is the Minister dealing with? Is he working it out? I don't think he gives a shit about it and does nothing. So the health chapter-- I really don't know. You have 164 billion in health care in the National Investment Plan: the new Bohunice obstetrics, the new obstetrics near Apolinář. Yes, thank God we made it, and it's coming by, the state-of-the-art IKEM transplant pavilion. Prague, Vienna, Berlin, the best transplant center in Europe, we have the best doctors in the world. We wanted to invest it all, but how much money does the Minister now have for investment? I've heard almost nothing. So, health care, psychiatric care reform, I hope it goes on. The strategy was not to lock people up in Bohnice, but to give them care at home. Of course, the problems have increased in the covido, and today it is a huge problem for young people. That's what we wanted to talk to you about, but of course there's no interest. Sports. We had a big debate at the club today about the National Sports Agency. Yes, the athletes wanted to have their ministry, but this is de facto like the Ministry. Once money was distributed in a bar in Intercontinental and it was in the apartment for ČSSD, for us it was transparent. We made it to 1.5 billion, the sports budget. And now? I mean, the agency's under the Prime Minister. I sent in a checkup from the Treasury Department when I had any doubts, we sent in an auditor. Now, who's gonna handle this, who's gonna run it anyway? Is it gonna be, like, politicians in there, or are you gonna split it up again based on who's got friends or what? I don't understand. I don't understand. Chapter Culture. Well, yes. I'm glad we managed to reconstruct the National Museum, the State Opera. I was just at louskáček, so I asked, "Will the new scene be, Minister?" He's not here. I'd like that if we could reconstruct the new scene, that was our project. Invalidation, Imperial Spa. Yes, even the prison in Uherské Hradiště was a project where I stood with Minister Herman, but the Prime Minister was there, so there is hope that it will continue. We were in Náchod on December 5th. That's where our government put 250 million to rebuild the castle. We advocated this because the restoration of our cultural monuments is of course extremely important for tourism. So it's all these things. Chapter Defense. There I have to say, Madam Secretary is trying, and he's trying to keep those promises. I'm rooting for her. Well, GDP is rising. If he gets to 2%, I promised to kneel, and that's the deal. Let's see. Of course, we need to say if we really need the F35s, how our industry will be involved and how it will be. I don't know. I don't have the details. But it's clear that we need to arm ourselves, that we need to re-enlist our army, and I personally hold the Minister's fingers in order for her to succeed. I think she has a move on the goal, so maybe the government will support it, because, of course, it's very important these days. I've got a lot going on here, I don't want to keep up, I think I've been talking for a long time. So when you said I didn't go to work, even though I'm paired up, I'm here. I hope I've fulfilled your expectations. I could read here for a long time. But the government's programming statement, why do you have it if you don't even love it or deliver it? In fact, in a year, you said... And where's the new situation that's changed here? We had covid, it was x-fold harder than impact... Again, we're not at war. Even the chief of staff or the chief of staff says we're not at war. In short, the effects are, are economic and you could have solved it beautifully, simply by putting electricity prices on producers or by lowering prices, VAT on food, yes, as they did in Poland. The question is how to get the chains to simply keep the VAT, if it goes down to zero - we have the highest VAT in Europe, 15 percent - so they don't keep it in their pockets. So that's what it was about. Of course, we're waiting for what the government is going to come up with now, because if not once the government's programming statement has been evaluated, and we don't really know if it's going to be new or based on what or... I don't understand why this isn't evaluated, and you should tell people the truth. And to say, yes, we lied to you before the election, we lied less about the government's programming statement, but we're still lying, and in short, nothing is going to happen from what we promised you. That would be fair. So thank you and we look forward to hearing at last how the government will evaluate the government's programming statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. We will continue the next programme with the speech of President Alena Schillerová with priority rights. And before I give her my word, I'll read the apology. Radim Fiala apologizes all day for medical reasons, Heller Šimon from 14.00 to 14.30 for work reasons, Růžička Pavel from 15 to 19 hours without giving reason and Jan Skopeček from 14.30 to 16 for family reasons. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I dare to place a new item at today's House meeting entitled Unaccounted expenditure from the state budget for 2023 and to place it as item number 1 of today's meeting. I believe it doesn't have to be anything complicated, nothing long. I don't see the Minister of Finance here, but there's a Vice Prime Minister, or I saw him here, so I guess there'll be a Vice Prime Minister and a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka, so he can answer. We all know that the budget for 2023 has been approved by this government five-police deficit balance 295 billion and I have been repeating here from the outset, even where I speak on this subject, it is a Baťa and marketing number that does not reflect the expected development in 2023. I stressed this, whether we discussed the budget, whether we discussed the so-called windfall tax or the second tax, the levy on price ceilings. I kept saying, you're not clear on the revenue side how much you choose. And we're not talking about billions of units, we're talking about tens of billions that are different from each other. In one draft law on windfall tax you have 85 billion and 15 of the bills of price ceilings, in the bill of charges you already have 45 windfall tax and 80 bills of price ceilings, so it really is not clear, but I have done this many times and we will definitely get back to it. Today, I would like to mention another very serious fact that came up with by the National Budget Council, which gives these arguments for the truth in its regular quarterly opinion on the development of the management of the public institutions sector and on the setting of fiscal and budgetary policies. The National Budget Board talks about the overall planned imbalance, which is higher than the 295 billion. You remember when I pointed out here that this is more than 295 billion, because the size of the state budget subsidy to the State Fund - and I quote now - "to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure does not allow it to cover all its planned expenditures and the management of this fund is presented with a deficit of CZK 30.7 billion. The National Budget Board' - further I quote - "considers this approach to an optical reduction in deficit inappropriate'. Do you remember when I was talking about it here, when my fellow Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Karel Havlíček, said that there was just almost 31 billion missing? The National Budget Board confirms that. We're talking about the expense side. And now again, from the National Budget Council report: "Another risk, and again on the expenditure side, is the compensation resulting from the regulation of energy prices for households and small and medium-sized enterprises. Their specific level will depend on energy prices in 2023, as well as on the specific form of compensation mechanism. The actual result will be influenced by the economic behaviour of individual tax entities.' And now another communication from the National Budget Council - very fundamental and serious: "The National Budget Board points out that, as a result of inflation, we are going to have an extraordinary valuation of pensions, and on the basis of expected developments, it is possible to assume that the 5% limit on consumer price increases will be exceeded in January 2023 from the date relevant for determining the level of proper valuation, which means that extraordinary valuations will be launched in June 2023. Additional expenditures" - I quote the National Budget Council - "additional expenditures of pension valorisation are around CZK 20 billion. However, they are not included in the budget for 2023," stresses the National Budget Board. And given the high amount -- so 31, 20, plus compensation, we don't know exactly how much they're going to go, so that's a nice amount. And the National Budget Board says that given the high amount, it cannot be assumed that it will be possible to cover this from savings in other items, and this adjustment of expenditure will require an amendment to the State Budget Act. Do you remember when the budget for 2023 was approved that I pointed out that we were going to have an amendment? Here we go. The amendment will be knocking on our door soon, and the National Budget Board is pointing it out. So please give a brief explanation, how is this possible, how could this happen that such essential items are not in the budget? I ask that this point be discussed. It won't be long, just a brief explanation. I believe that the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will also be able to comment on this, Mr Jurečka, if I do not see the Minister of Finance here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Karel Havlíček is now registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before I present the title of my point, which I wish to include, please hear the reasons for this point. Let's recapitulate a very sad spectacle of energy ceilinging in the Czech Republic. It's an endless soap opera that's starting to graze. Let me just remind you that since February of this year we have been asking for the preparation of a cropping regime for households and for companies, from July very strongly with regard to the evolving situation. The answer was a mockery, and at the end of August, the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister made it clear that there would be no ceiling, that this was a solution from a populist and extremist camp, so that several hours after that, it would come up with a ceiling. Unfortunately, nothing was prepared until the end of August, as a result of which there was an incredible confusion and everything started to be prepared quickly, not at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where there were enough competent people for it, but everything started to be prepared confusedly at the Office of the Government, where people who were responsible did not do it anymore, but people who quickly picked up from energy companies or companies that are consulting in the field of energy, and together started to put this together. That's what it looks like. The amount, including VAT, including all charges, has been ceilinged on electricity between 7 000 and 9 000 crowns per megawatt hour, although we have clearly pointed out that this is unnecessarily high in terms of how much we can produce electricity, and also in view of the way it is being cropped in the surrounding countries. What's the status in the countries around us? The Czech Republic has a ceiling of energy in this case including VAT without a fee of CZK 6,050, Poland CZK 3,600, Slovakia CZK 1,500, Austria CZK 2,400 and Germany - the only one has a higher ceiling - at the level of CZK 9,700 per megawatt hour, however for companies at the level of CZK 3,200 per megawatt hour, for large companies. [[16.10 hours]] In any case, after all these confusions and high-set ceilings, it is being covered, it is approved, energy companies are starting to send, as they must, backup invoices which logically take account of this lower amount, or the amount that will be paid from 1 January, but they have been sending backup invoices since November and December. To this day there is no agreed compensation mechanism for these companies, translated into Czech - companies buy expensive, sell because they have to, cheaply and all of this are starting to pay out of their cash. It is not clear what the compensation mechanism will look like, it is not clear when it will be finally ready. This, of course, begins to threaten companies quite fundamentally, companies - suppliers in this case, which are by far not just large companies that have enough cash, but among them are a number of smaller companies, medium companies that run out of money, logically do not see the future and are quite fundamentally threatened from this point of view. What can happen? It may occur that the customers of these companies, these suppliers, will again fall into the last instance's supplier regime and that new requests for electricity will be suspended. For this reason, too, these companies have written a warning letter to the Minister of Industry and Trade, which clearly states that the dramatic impact of supply - I quote precisely - will significantly affect not only our economic results, but also increase the risk of lack of liquidity, often beyond our economic capabilities and threaten our very existence. - I note that two months we know how this ceiling will work, two months we know that it will be from 1 January, two months we know that backup invoices will be sent from November and December, but nothing like this is done at the moment. I merely point out that according to the law, suppliers are entitled to pay for this loss which they have incurred as a result of this price, that is to say, it is the obligation of the State. So the logical question is, how will this be dealt with, when this will be resolved, and how will the compensation be implemented with regard to its amount? So I'm asking the Vice-President to include my point, which would be called the Late Compensation for Energy Suppliers in the context of the energy price ceiling - to include it as the first point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u17	Yes, thank you. And now we will proceed to the next motion that Mrs Věra Adámková will make... I don't see her. It is now Mrs Lucie Šafránková's turn to prepare Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that the agenda of this meeting be put on the agenda of paragraph 33, which is House Press No. 9 - Amendment to the Social Services Act. Specifically, it is a proposal to increase the care allowance for disabled people. Two weeks ago, this proposal was discussed here, but because government MPs did not apply to their voting facilities, although they were present in the hall, they deliberately and deliberately blocked the possibility of discussing this proposal at first reading. Although you are well aware - and I am speaking again mainly to the government Members - that the government amendment to the payment decree will once again increase the prices of social services for disabled citizens since January, making them completely unavailable for many of them, which will clearly lead to a deterioration in the quality of their lives and also in the health condition. If we do not want to literally drive this group of fellow citizens into an even more unsolvable life and social situation, it is our duty first to increase their care contributions, which have not been raised for six years, by the way. I therefore propose to include this point as the second point of today's negotiations, if necessary, as the first point of tomorrow's Wednesday's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Madame. Before I give the floor to Mrs Ožanová, I'll read an apology. Mr. Fifka apologizes... And I'm just gonna try to find his apology... I won't hold up. I will give the floor to Mrs Ožanová, and I will add the rest to Mr Fifka's apology later. You have the floor, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be brief. This weekend, when I read the press, I thought - the trains are going to get expensive, I get it, the traction energy is growing, everything's growing. I have yet to read, I will quote - the Minister of Transport said on iRozlas: We have tried to preserve the level of the price increase, which is still bearable, which corresponds to inflation. - I fully understand. One of the other phrases was: next year we want to focus on a significant increase in the reliability of the railway connection. - I was looking forward to it. It was even more interesting on Novinky: the title of the article Trains changes orders, speeds up and speeds up. - And because I am driving from Ostrava, I am interested in subtitles Svížně and Moravia and text - I quote: The connection to Moravia will be faster, for example between Prague and Ostrava will be reduced by up to 13 minutes... Well, on Monday, I took a train from Ostrava to Prague, no minus 13, plus 158 minutes. I took a train from Ostrava to Prague for more than 6 hours. I understand it was snowing, but I'm sorry, the snow can be assumed under our conditions, and that it was snowing, sorry, for me it was no calamity, it seemed to me like a normal condition, it occurred to me that the train was going longer than usual. I think we should look into this. On the one hand, we want more money for the fare, the Minister of Transport promises faster connections and sorry, reality is really different. -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u21	I apologize, Madame, for interrupting. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u22	I'm gonna go to the draft point right now. I believe that this is a point that would interest most of the passengers and at least those who rode with me on the same train. The item is called a discussion to increase rail fare prices following non-compliance with timetables. I propose to include this point as the first one today, because I believe it is up to date, and because I believe that it could still snow again in winter and that there could be renewed situations where, for example, between Ostrava Main Station and Ostrava-Svinov, we waited 20 minutes for snow to switch. Thank you. And I hope that if the House does not place this point, that the Minister will still address this issue, because it is unbearable. I've gotten used to being late for ten to 20 minutes, but I'm not getting used to being late for three hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Mr Fifka has been apologizing since 16.30 without giving any reason. And now we will proceed to the next enrollment, and that is Mr Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm not really taking advantage of this point, but even today, given that there's probably not going to be an opportunity to interpel here this week, I'd like to open up a matter that has stopped me and exceeded a certain limit that I'm willing to accept. [[16.20 hours]] I called that point the current recruitment situation at the Department of the Environment. That is why I am glad that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of the Environment are here today in his double role. I don't know if you've noticed, but there was an article in the media about how the minister, or perhaps the future minister and the candidate for Minister Hladík, wrote a letter to his party sisters and brothers, and this is how he approached them - of course, I understand, after the People's Day, I understand this without irony - and said something in the sense: If you are interested, brothers and sisters, work at the Ministry of the Environment, then write me or call me. Well, I have to say, if the YES movement had made it, at least it's twice the CT reporters, and so three times we're in 168 hours, because I just consider this, and I'm struck by how normal it is for other colleagues, obviously, this is what I consider to be a tobacconist. And it's already a certain loss of judgment, because that someone will mention it somewhere, that's probably normal, but that he will write an official letter to all parties - it probably went on, I suppose, maybe all the folks, that they will be occupied - I remind you, in the framework of the Service Act even more, yes - posts within the Ministry of the Environment, that in the finals he will be written by the person who is the candidate for the minister, it is not yet certain whether he will be appointed to this place, I think that he has already exceeded all the limits. And I was even more surprised at the non-reaction of this. It just feels like a done deal. I would like to hope that it will continue to apply, although unfortunately today I see an increasing number of party nominations, but again, in the case of what we have been dealing with here in the amendment to the Service Act, that there are people coming with the Minister, experts and they can also have party cards, that is probably not a mistake or something that is forbidden. This may appear everywhere, with us it appeared relatively little during the reign of YES, unlike other political parties, but the fact that parties are directly encouraged to sign up for something like this, I think it's behind the edge. [[is]] If you don't think so, you can see where it's going. I want to hope that it will be more important for other employees, not only within the framework of the Service Act for the future, not only at the Ministry of the Environment, if there is a clear professional capacity, if there are professional qualifications here, than if I go to church on Sunday. And I think it's basic. Basic! And again, if we're talking about something, a party nomination, that's common, but if we're already writing letters to the party forwards, sign up to me, ausgerechnet at a private address, because I think the email was private so far, Mr. Adept to the new Minister of the Environment, and I think even his phone number, I don't really know where we are anymore. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] So that point, I'm sorry, that point would be called Recruiting employees to the Ministry of the Environment, and I'd like to ask him as the second point after the already fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u25	Today. [[Member Brabec off the microphone: Today.]] Yes, thank you. So far, Mrs Věra Adámková is the last one to be logged in. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have time for Advent, when we should probably do good more than ever and try in some way to contribute positively to what we are here for, that is to improve the lives of our fellow citizens. And so, it's a bit of a habit to appeal to you again, especially to paramedics from... in all the political subjects that are in this House, and that's because I'm asking for a point, House Press 162, transplant laws, as the first point of today's negotiations. It is a completely apolitical law, because health is not chosen, the sick are both those and those, and it is again a great discrimination against bone marrow donors, voluntary bone marrow donors, which you have decided not to give up full medical care if they are ill after the collection. I appeal especially to paramedics. I don't know how you can look your patients in the face. There are sick children, deadly children, there are people with many diseases, and I don't know why you're afraid to open this program here and open this point. Vote according to your conscience however you will, but the end of the year is coming, and it is a shame, a great shame, that we - or that you - have not found the courage to place this point. What are you afraid of, please? The person who, after this collection, is not simple, but is made by experts, will have incapacity for work, which is a really rare complication, rare, would only get full pay, not just sick leave. So please consider your conscience. I don't know why we should say some things that are said. And I really think that the time of Christmas is coming and it is very good to say and beg for forgiveness of sins, because this is a sin. Anyone there who decides not to put this on the agenda is burdened with sin. Then vote all you want. Why are you afraid to give them a full refund in case of incompetence? What are you afraid of? I really don't understand it, and I would very much like you to allow a little bit of incongruousness, and so in Advent, you will allow this point to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Madame. That was the last one logged on to the draft show. I wonder if anyone else is applying? It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. First of all, we would vote on proposals from the Gremium. If there is no objection, we would vote on all the proposals from the Gremium at once. These proposals have been read, so I do not think that they need to be repeated. I've logged the check-out request, I've checked you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your ID cards. I'm gonna get some more gongs. I'm gonna call in my co-workers from the lobby. I'm just pointing out that we've all been logged out, so I'm asking the arrivals to sign in. We would therefore now vote on the proposals from the Gremium, as they have been said here. and I didn't notice any objections so that we could vote on all the proposals from Gremia at once. We'll wait a little while longer until the number of entries is settled. The number of entries has stabilized. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number three, 149 Members and Members signed up, for 149, against none. The motion was accepted. And now we will vote on the remaining proposals as they have been said. The first proposal was President Jakob's proposal, which proposes item 4, House press 285, which is a law on certain measures against the spread of terrorist content online, proposing to include it as a third point on today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 152 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 133, versus 16. The motion was accepted. [[16.30 hours]] Another proposal by President Jakob was the inclusion of paragraph 67, House Press 165, which is the Senate Bill on the residence of foreigners. as the fourth point of today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of... I'm sorry, I declare this vote (number 5) to be misguided and I will specify... So I'm just going to repeat that this motion by the President, the inclusion of paragraph 67 as the fourth point in the first reading block, is that okay? [[Yes.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 154 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 67. The motion was accepted. The next proposal by President Jakob is the inclusion of paragraph 99, House press 218, which is the coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office. He's proposing to include him on Wednesday 14. 12 as the third point. Prime Minister, is this okay? Yes. Well, I'm gonna start... But I've already logged the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We will now wait for the number of entries to be settled, which has happened. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 155 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 134, versus 16. The motion was accepted. The next proposal by President Jakob is to include item number 100, House press 219, which is coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office - related laws, on Wednesday 14. 12. as the fourth point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 156 Members and Members signed up, for 135, against 16. The motion was accepted. The next proposal by President Jakob is the inclusion of item number 20, House press 330, which is a construction law, like the eighth point? [[Yes.]] Eight point on Wednesday 14. 12th, which is the fourth point in the first reading block. Is that okay? Yes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 155 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 82, versus 17. The motion was accepted. The next item by President Jakob is the inclusion of item number 12, House press 289, which is the law on pedagogical workers, for Friday as the first item - Friday 16. 12. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered by 156 Members and Members of Parliament, for 139, versus 16. The motion was accepted. Another proposal is the proposal by President Okamura, who proposes to include a new point, which is: due to the inactivity of the Fialův Government, food prices are rising as quickly as possible in the world. Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? Initiating vote... [[Objection that only in Europe.]] Okay, I'm fixing - so prices are rising the fastest in Europe. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 155 Members and Members signed up for 67, versus 78. The motion was denied. We will therefore not vote on his solid inclusion. The next proposal by President Okamura is the inclusion of a new item entitled the Purple Government does not want to address citizens' social problems. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 155 Members and Members signed up, for 70, against 81. The motion was denied. The next proposal by President Okamura is the inclusion of a new point, which reads: Because of the inability of the Fialův Government some medicines are missing in the Czech Republic. Isn't that right? [[Ambassador Okamura is looking in the background.]] That's right. [[Fun.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 156 Members and Members signed up, for 70, against 80. The motion was denied. The next proposal by President Okamura is the inclusion of a new point, which is: the Fialův Government wants people to fully pay for all dental / dental - here I have two options - dental care. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 156 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 68, versus 75. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Babiš's proposal, which proposes to include a new item entitled Evaluation of the fulfilment of the Petr Fiala Government's programming declaration. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 156 Members and Members voted in favour of 74, versus 80. The motion was denied. We are now voting on the proposal by President Alena Schillerová, who proposes to include a new item entitled Unaccounted expenditure in the national budget for 2023. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 156 Members of Parliament signed up, for 74, against 78. The motion was denied. [[16.40 hours]] We will now vote on the proposal by Vice-President Karel Havlíček, who proposes to include a new item entitled Delaying compensation for energy suppliers in connection with the ceiling on energy prices. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 156 Members and Members signed in, for 74, against 79. The motion was denied. Another proposal is the proposal by Mrs Lucie Šafránková, who proposes to move point 33, House press 9, which is an amendment to the Social Services Act. He's proposing two options. First of all, we will vote on the first option, which says that the Member proposes to include this point as a second point today, or to move forward. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 18, registered by 156 Members and Members, for 73, against 75. The motion was denied. We will therefore vote on the second option, when the honourable Member proposes to include item 33, House press 9, which is the amendment to the Social Services Act as the first item tomorrow. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 19, 156 Members and Members voted in favour of 72, against 77. The motion was denied. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová proposes a new item entitled The discussion on increasing rail fare prices following non-compliance with timetables. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 20, 156 Members and Members signed in for 72, versus 69. The motion was denied. Mr Richard Brabec proposes to include a new item called Staff Recruiting at the Ministry of the Environment. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 156 Members of Parliament signed up, for 74, against 74. The motion was denied. The last proposal is the proposal by Mrs Věra Adámková, who proposes to move and include item 65, House Press 162, which is the transplant law - the first point on today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 22, registered by 156 Members and Members, for 72, against 73. The motion was denied. So we have dealt with all the proposals and now we will vote on the whole proposal for the 48th session of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing and adapted by approved amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 23, 156 Members and Members registered, for 128, against none. The draft programme has been adopted. Before we open the point, the first point of our negotiations, I'll read the apologies. He apologizes Lubomír Brož from 16:30 to 19:00 for work reasons. And now we'd like to move on to a point number.
