ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 12th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. At this point, I have been informed that the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, would like to speak to the current situation in Ukraine, so I would like to give the floor to the Prime Minister. And I'd like to ask you all to remain calm in the hall. If there's anything you need to do, please go to the lobby. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that this meeting has been convened for another situation, but I consider it necessary, necessary, unfortunately, to speak on another matter at the outset of this sitting, and this is about the development of the situation in Ukraine. We can't ignore the development we're following, we can't close our eyes to it, we can't pretend we're not involved. We need to name and be aware of what is happening in clear words. And what is happening is that Europe is now a step away from the war. Yesterday's recognition of rebel republics in eastern Ukraine and the subsequent launch of a military mission is a clear act of aggression against a sovereign state by Russia and is clearly a violation of international law. I don't think anyone can doubt that today. Russia's President Putin aggressive speech and his follow-up have shown the Russian President's way of thinking and his interests, what he longs for, what he wants to achieve. And to do that, he's not shy of using military force. And we can't close our eyes before that. Whoever follows foreign policy knows we're not witnessing anything completely new. We saw this 14 years ago in Georgia, eight years ago in Crimea, and now we see it in eastern Ukraine. Who would believe that Vladimir Putin's actions and efforts to revive the Soviet Union could end up in the east of Ukraine, he is wrong, he would be naive and would not have made a good and safe policy. Let us look at the old maps, where the Soviet Union has intervened and what Russia considers to be its sphere of influence, and we will all understand how it touches us. We must also admit that, in the past, the West has not acted forcefully enough towards Russia's expansion and imperialist policy, and unfortunately, we are reaping fruit now. And he didn't even move together enough. We also saw it in response to the Russian annexation of Crimea. I dare say that today the situation is a little better, it is different, and this is also my conclusion from the negotiations that I attended last week personally, when I spoke with the President of the European Council Michel, the President of the European Parliament Roberta Metsola, with other European leaders in the informal meeting of the European Council. The united position, the strong position, the need to act together, not only as the European Union, but also in cooperation with the United States, Canada and other countries within the North Atlantic Alliance, this position sounds not only in the media, but also in negotiations behind closed doors, and it is the belief of virtually all the leaders of the European Union. I spoke on the phone last night with the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, and I know from that interview that the first reaction of the European Union should come today in the form of sanctions. Different scale of sanctions are being prepared, and the impact on Russia should be very hard as a result. I would also like to assure our citizens that the European Union has been working for several weeks to reduce energy dependence on Russia, which is also important for the Czech Republic, they are being pre-negotiated, as has already been mediated in recent days, the supply of energy raw materials from other countries, if necessary, and we are preparing for this option. The European Union is also preparing assistance to Ukraine, whether financial assistance or support in combating cyber security threats. And, of course, the Czech Republic is also active in aid and support, as I will talk about it shortly. It is also highly likely that the North Atlantic Alliance will proceed to increase its military presence on its eastern wing, primarily in the southeast, that is Romania and Bulgaria, but also in Central Europe, Slovakia and Hungary, and in the northeast, Poland and the Baltic countries, beyond the already deployed so-called forward presence. As I said, the Czech Republic does not only take into account, we support the strengthening of alliance defence, especially on the Eastern wing of the Alliance. The Czech Republic, I merely recall, has also responded positively to the call of the Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Forces in Europe to fulfil the lack of the ability of NATO's rapid response forces by approving the possibility of sending a chemical unit of approximately 100 soldiers. At present, we have a total of 180 chemical specialists and about 400 members of the fourth rapid deployment brigade in cash. This is not the current reaction to the latest development of the last hours, but it is a long-term position of the Czech Republic, and I remind you of our active approach and involvement in this allied activity. With regard to further actions towards Ukraine, already on 26 January the government approved the Ministry of Defence's proposal to donate 4 000 artillery grenades to Ukraine with a caliber of 152 millimeters applicable to the guns of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We are prepared to discuss other forms of assistance if the Ukrainian party so requests. Another help is the contract for medical assistance to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which was concluded by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský for the Czech Republic in Kiev. The subject of this Treaty is the willingness of the Czech Republic to accept people for treatment. Ukraine The Czech Republic also provides humanitarian aid. The humanitarian aid has several stages. In the first stage it was the delivery of traumatic packages through the Red Cross worth about 3.5 million crowns. Part of it has already been imported by the Foreign Minister during his visit to Ukraine, the rest will be delivered within two weeks. [[10.10 hours]] The second phase of humanitarian aid is a money donation of CZK 10 million per medical material, this will be realized in the coming days, and if necessary and further deterioration of the situation would take place in the third phase where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior would propose further humanitarian assistance in connection with how the situation would develop. Apart from the support, of course, it is also a priority for us, and this is one of the highest priorities, the protection of citizens of the Czech Republic. The representative office in Kiev and the Consulate General in Lviv are working, which is important, to carry out their tasks. Both missions have increased security levels. Kiev has already left the family members of diplomats, the next stages of evacuation are ready. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs warned the citizens of the Czech Republic to consider the trip to Ukraine, and those of them who are in Ukraine called for the country to leave. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also warned against traveling to Belarus, because of course this is closely related. We are also preparing for possible security impacts on the Czech Republic and I can say that we are, as far as possible, ready for various scenarios. I've repeatedly called the Security Council of the State in the last few days and weeks, and we'll have another meeting tomorrow. The Security Council of the State has addressed and addressed the situation in the East of Ukraine, including the impact on the Czech Republic and other preparations for possible impacts. I can therefore say that we are ready for both the possibility of a failure to supply energy raw materials and the possible influx of refugees from Ukraine. As you may see and watch in the media, the situation is changing every day, sometimes literally even within hours, and our government, along with our allies in the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, is responding to these changes and we are preparing for situations that may yet occur. We must be united, this is extremely important. We must proceed together. We must not show Rusko any weakness and any contradictions. We must be united not only within the European Union, but also in cooperation with the United States of America, the United Kingdom and other partners. We must be prepared to impose hard financial economic sanctions on Russia while taking the necessary measures to ensure our security. So much, ladies and gentlemen, brief information on the current situation, which undoubtedly upsets us all. I am, of course, ready to inform the Chamber of Deputies in the next stages, but, of course, mostly the public and citizens about what is going on and, above all, about the next steps that we are going to take. I believe and hope that in this situation, the Czech Republic will also act unitedly and together and that we will have the support of not only coalition parties but also opposition parties here. From the first statements, it seems that way, and I want to thank you for having one voice. This is extremely important because we are looking for a common goal. Our aim is to ensure the safety of our citizens and to ensure the security of the Czech Republic. dáma and gentlemen, the Czech Republic considers the recognition of insurgent territories in the east of Ukraine and the subsequent launch of a military operation as an act of aggression against a neighbouring sovereign state and a clear violation of international law. We stand for the full independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine. We support the introduction of tough sanctions by the European Union and its allies, which will discourage Russia from further aggression and open the way to diplomatic solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your performance. And now, with priority rights, I have been asked by the President of the ANO Group, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Thank you for letting me get off here. I think that, after the Prime Minister's words, there is no need for a long statement, but let me clearly condemn the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine's sovereign state as the chairman of the largest opposition parliamentary club of the ANO movement. This step, and in this we agree with the members of the government coalition, in which we agree with the Prime Minister, is a clear violation of international treaties. It is therefore essential that we approach this solution together with foreign partners, as was said by the Prime Minister. Our country is very sensitive to such procedures, because I think we know from history what was the decision about us without us. That is why we cannot be indifferent even when it concerns someone else. We simply must not remain silent and express our clear support for the government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, too, Madam President. Let me ask: does anyone else want to speak with priority rights? [[No one's checking in.]] Thank you. So at this point, I must say that the meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure at the request of 58 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, February 17th. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Barbora Urbanová and Mr Hayat Okamura. Let me ask you, does anyone else have a suggestion? I see that's not the case. At this point, I will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained? Thank you. Voting number 1, registered by 138 Members, 124 in favour, no-one against, abstained 14. I note that we have appointed the verifiers of the 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Barbora Urbanová and Mr Hayat Okamura. At this point, I would like to say that, before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Adamec Ivan - working... [[From the O.R. No!]] No? Okay. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That's how it was presented to me, you're the first one written there. Adamec Ivan does not apologize and is present. Andrea Babišová - foreign travel, Jan Bartošek - working reasons, Jaroslav Bašta from 10.00 to 13.00 - health reasons, Josef Bělica - working reasons, Roman Bělor from 10.00 to 13.00 - working reasons, Jan Berki - foreign travel, Stanislav Blaha - medical reasons, Jan Bureš - working reasons, Jiří Carbol - working reasons, Tomáš Dubský from 10.00 to 11.00 - working reasons. Mr. Dubský cancels his apology. Thank you. Jaroslav Dvořák from 10.00 to 12.00 - health reasons, Martin Exner from 11.00 to 13.00 - working reasons, Jaroslav Faltýnek from 10.00 to 11.00 - working reasons, Milan Feranec - health reasons, Petr Fifka - foreign travel, Pavla Golasowská - working reasons, Havel Matěj Ondřej from 10.00 to 13.30 - working reasons, Jiří Havránek from 9.00 to 14.00 - health reasons, Šimon Heller - health reasons, Igor Hendrych - working reasons, Jiří Horák - working grounds, Pavel Klíma working grounds, Ondřej Kolář from 10.00 to 10.30 - working reasons, Ondřej Kolář from 13.30 to 15.30 - working grounds, Václav Král - working reasons, Robert králíček - foreign travel. Jan Lacina - working reasons, Ondřej Lochman - international travel, Ivana Mádlová from 10.00 to midnight - health reasons, Jiří Mašek - health reasons, Patrik Nacher from 10.00 to 11.30 - working reasons, Jiří Navrátil from 10.00 to 21.00 - working reasons, Nina Nováková from 11.00 to 12.30 - no reason given, Eliška Olšáková - working reasons. [[10.20 hours]] Lucie Potůčková from 10.15 to 12.30 - working reasons and again Lucie Potůčková from 14.00 to 17.00 - working reasons. Petr Sadovský - health reasons, Alena Schillerová within 11 hours - working reasons, Jan Skopeček - foreign travel, Pavel Staněk - foreign travel, Jiří Strýček - health reasons, Stržínek Strvenek - working reasons, Julius Špičák - working reasons, Karel Tureček - foreign travel, Lukáš Vlček from 14.00 to 19.30 - working reasons, Ivo Vondrák - working reasons, Lubomír Wenzl - working reasons, Milan Wenzl - health reasons, Vladimír Zlínský - foreign travel, Pavel Žáček - foreign travel. Further apology of government members: Ivan Bartoš - foreign travel, Martin Baxa from 10.00 to 11.00 - working reasons, Mikuláš Bek - foreign travel, Petr Gazdík from 1.00 to midnight - working reasons, Martin Kupka - foreign travel, Jan Lipavský - foreign travel, Zdeněk Nekula from 10.00 to 11.00 - working reasons, Vít Rakušan - foreign travel, Michal Šalomoun from 10.00 to 11.00 - working reasons and again Michal Šalomoun from 12.30 to 14.30 - working reasons and last, Minister Vlastimil Válek - working reasons. I would now like to say that Mr Roman Bělor will be voting today with Mr 11's replacement card. With this, we have dealt with all the apologies, and we will now proceed to the agenda of the 12th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is not possible to propose a change or addition to the program. It is also not possible to extend the approved programme. Mr. Chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, is now registered with priority rights, so I'm going to ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Petr Fiala's government has negotiated with the Polish Government the compensation for the Turów mine at a completely insufficient amount of CZK 1 billion must be stated at the outset. And now we have an extraordinary meeting today on this topic called Failure of the Czech Government and the fatal consequences of the agreement between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Poland on the impact of mining on the Turów mine. Studies calculate the damage to between 2 and 4 billion. That is why today we have this extraordinary meeting on the agenda of the House and we will be talking here about compensation for the damage caused by the deepening of the mining limits in the border brown coal mine Turów Bogatynia. The way in which Petr Fiala's government negotiated this interstate agreement, I think, fully characterizes Mr Milan stařec's statement from the Neighborhood Association Uhelná, from the directly affected Czech community at the border with Poland, which is in sight from the mine. He said about Petr Fiala's government and the government's contract - I quote: We have a lot of anger and we're banging our heads on the wall here. They sold us out. This deal is stupid, because it won't protect us from mine activity and from water loss. The end of Mr Milan stařec's quote from the Neighborhood Association Uhelná, which is the directly affected community, is directly the citizens who pay for the situation in their daily lives. The SPD movement has long considered the situation in the Frýdlant region to be extremely disturbing. Our then regional representative and today MP for the Liberec Region Radovan Vích points out the impending loss of groundwater in the wells of Frýdlantský vyklužku and the threat of flora and fauna in the entire Jizera Mountains Belt since 2018, because all the negotiations of the region with the government of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of the Environment and the Polish party in the framework of compensatory bailouts have not produced any concrete positive results. We believe that the contractual compensation of just EUR 45 million, which is CZK 1 billion, is entirely disadvantageous, with EUR 10 million being received by the government and the rest of the municipality concerned. A few years ago, two project remediation studies were developed on this issue, one talking about costs of 2.1 billion, and the other even about damages of over CZK 4 billion. The fact that the current government sold, literally in quotation marks, sold solutions to the resulting damage to Poland for just CZK 1 billion, is completely scandalous for us. Yes, here's the exact quote from the Neighborhood Association Uhelná, when - I will repeat it again - citizens who are affected directly in those municipalities said "sold us" about the government of Petr Fiala. I think it's really quite distinctive for Petr Fiala's government, and you can see that citizens are already saying that. We are therefore fundamentally opposed to such a treaty, and we insist that the government terminate it and negotiate better conditions. In our opinion, the government didn't act enough and sold our water basically for a mouthful. The consequences will be terrible for citizens in the Liberec region, who will lose water in their wells, and we will lose the Protected Landscape Area of the Jizera Mountain in the order of a few decades. We take the view that we should demand much more money from Poland and carry out other remedial and compensatory measures, as well as guaranteeing the contractual performance of Poland. Poland is one of our closest partners and we all want good relations. But as they say, good accounts make good friends. At this time, the Czech government gave Poland a blank check, and the Fialův government gave up all the tools it had at its disposal, by which the Polish mining company could have influenced mostly the water losses in our border area to be resolved. The Czech Government sold Poland our right to a good life and a preserved environment for just EUR 45 million. And the questions to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Environment Hubáčková of KDU-ČSL and the Government are: Why? The Czech Government has secretly and quickly accepted an agreement whereby Poland does not have to pay fines for non-compliance with the decisions of the European Court and has accepted further concessions from an already weak agreement. The Czech Republic has undertaken to withdraw the action before the Court of Justice of the European Union as soon as the financial compensation agreed in the agreement has been accepted. There were attempts to say that we wouldn't have to win. And also an agreed version of the contract - said a better sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof. That's a pretentious lie. Petr Fiala signed an agreement with Mateusz Morawiecký on the day when the lawyer of the Court of Justice of the European Union made it clear that Poland had infringed Union law in the Turów case. We would almost certainly have won the trial. Poland has a self-confident patriotic government, which acts hard in the interests of Polish citizens, which is unfortunately a big difference from the weak, insignificant and incompetent government of Petr Fiala, and unfortunately this disadvantageous treaty, which is also talked about by citizens from the affected area in the Liberec Region, is the result. [[10.30 hours]] Poland did not respect EU law and trampled on the rights of Czech citizens in authorising the expansion of mining, as confirmed by the European Commission. Poland refuses to respect the decision of the European Court, so it should pay EUR 68 million as a fine. It has never offered the Czech Republic any real concession, such as restrictions on spatial or temporal extraction. It is therefore a question whether Poland is planning to comply with the agreement at all, how it would enforce compliance and why the Czech Republic supports Poland in the infringement. Our position in the dispute was supported by the European Union and the Polish courts. The Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union has given his consent to the Czech lawsuit and the Czech Republic would have won the dispute. In addition, two days before the signing of the contract, the Polish court decided to abolish the immediate execution of the EIA, so the mine cannot legally obtain a mining permit. By signing the contract, the Czech Prime Minister threw arguments in our favor overboard. So there is an entirely different question: why the accelerated and classified signature of the classified contract, when time played into our hands and it was clear that both international and even Polish institutions are on our side? The conditions for further extraction contained in the contract are not sufficient to protect the water supply on the Czech side of the border. The agreement is, above all, a concession from Poland, which did not want to pay fines for non-compliance with judicial decisions and for continuing mining. Expecting the sealing wall to work by some miracle, which according to internal documents the mining company PGE does not believe, is very naive of Czech ministers and ministers. According to some legal experts, the text of the Czech-Polish agreement on the brown coal mine Turów is allegedly contrary to Czech and Union laws. kupodivu, this would be good news, because it would help to nullify the totally disadvantageous contract signed by the government of Petr Fiala. Local associations, environmental and legal organizations have already announced that they will file the relevant lawsuits. The critics point out that the Czech Republic has completely retreated to Poland in the time horizon of the European Court's supervision of the performance of the contract. Supervision in the contract is for five years from the originally proposed twelve years, i.e. by 2027, but is planned to benefit by 2044. But what should be looked after when the treaty itself does not really address the most important, and the water loss? The most scandalous thing about the contract is that it doesn't even count on stopping the drop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whereas: 9 respond only if the drop exceeds 8 meters per six months. This means that, according to the contract, the drop in the bottom water is perfectly correct at 7.9 meters per half year, which is more than 15 meters per year. The contract was approved secretly by the government and signed by Prime Minister Petr Fiala of ODS on Thursday, February 3. The negotiations on the agreement were not even on the government's agenda. The next morning the Polish Prime Minister came to Prague to sign the contract. Neither the MPs nor the government coalition knew about the unplanned and secret signature of the treaty. It is quite clear that such a serious problem should have been dealt with publicly with politicians, citizens and experts. To clarify the nature of the matter, Poland's signed contract does not have to pay fines, and we are giving up all the lawsuits. On the other hand, Poland did not commit itself to preventing a drop in the groundwater level in our country, only to a decrease of up to 16 metres per year. In other words, within a year there may not be water around Turów in a single well. Prime Minister, government, another thumb down for your incompetence, which is coming to our citizens pretty expensive. And at the end of the day, a little bit of a different keg. Although the ODS coalition, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN have been appointed president more than two months ago, namely 17 December 2021, this government Petr does Fiala come up with a concrete solution to the causes or consequences of rising energy, food and housing prices and support for business operators in relation to the consequences of measures against the epidemic. For example, the governments of Poland, Hungary and Slovakia have already come, among other things, with a temporary reduction in taxes on energy and basic food to zero, a maximum fuel price, a temporary freezing of interest rates on mortgages and so on. Petr Fiala's government as the only one within the V4 countries did not offer any general solutions to citizens. At the same time, citizens from rising energy prices and everything around us are desperate and rightly expecting help from a government that still does not come. This government is not a government of experts and has great distrust in a large part of the public, which is justified. The SPD's movement requires the current government of Petr Fiala from the ODS to come up with concrete measures to help all citizens bridge the present difficult situation, while at the same time publishing specific deadlines - we call on the government to do so - from when these measures will apply. Otherwise, the government should resign, as citizens who receive expensive bills do not have time to wait for an incompetent government. And it's really tacky that if you come up late with some kind of surface solution, but you haven't done anything yet, it'll be here in the House again just because of the opposition SPD that we pushed you into it. Again, Petr Fiala Republic is the last country in Central Europe, namely the Visegrad Four, which did not come up with any general solution for citizens to reduce energy, food or fuel prices or mortgages and so on. It's the last country, because the priority of this government, this appalling government, is the pandemic law that they've flooded the House with, it's the correspondence choice you're planning to give as a priority for the March meeting, instead of solving the upheaval. And then right here at the Department of the Environment with Secretary Hubáčková, they're announcing a national bird contest. I think that's enough, because your goal is to put citizens into poverty, into executions. But citizens are waiting for a comprehensive solution to the price increase, just as the patriotic governments in Poland, Hungary do, and the Slovák have now approached the solution. So, of course, from this point of view, it is the worst government in Central Europe at all, because you are doing absolutely nothing for citizens, even in comparison with our partner countries close to the Visegrad Four. We were here last week, the SPD, instead of the pandemic law, trying to include - SPD - a draft point, and already repeatedly, solving the increase in energy, food and housing in the Czech Republic. You rejected that point, your government has repeatedly rejected that point here in the House. We wanted to make it possible for us to discuss it here. SPD translates a specific solution, now I have appointed some of them to either reduce VAT to zero, like the Polák basic food and energy, similarly the Maďar do, the Slovák have decided to put energy prices on the table for three years, save Slovak citizens and their wallets about a billion crowns. The problem is that we're asking you here, we're offering you a solution because you don't have one, and you don't have one prepared, but you're even rejecting the points here in the House so we can talk about it so we can discuss our solutions at all, and you're not offering any solutions for the citizens. And that's a really fatal situation. This is a crazy situation where you take citizens hostage, ten million citizens who now receive bills every month, energy bills come to them, last year's payments come to them, often huge, because in the meantime the prices have increased, now new advances are coming to citizens, including me, of course, which are more expensive. And I must say that this is the priority that we expect you to address. [[10.40 hours]] And again, your government coalition has had most of it here in the House for four months. Before the government was established, your Members could have already submitted their own laws, which they could have passed here long ago in December, perhaps in a legislative emergency. Not the pandemic law. But you have a priority here, the pandemic law, the national cock contest, the correspondence election, because you're worried that your preferences are falling, we've already seen the poll that was broadcast by Nova, the news server TN.cz from Nova TV, your support for citizens is falling steeply, so your priority is now to introduce correspondence elections, because you're afraid that you're no longer going to succeed in the elections, in the elections. But that is a law that is not at all for citizens in the Czech Republic who pay taxes here. Moreover, citizens abroad can already vote at the representative offices. But you want to influence and manipulate elections. And the presidential election, too. That means, that's your priority instead of dealing with the expensive. I think that's awful. And now the next priority, we know it, is the media law, is already being prepared by the Ministry of Culture so that you can politically control Czech Television and Czech Radio, because you are once again afraid that you will not succeed in the elections, which is why you want them to broadcast on your side to influence the composition of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio. I've never seen a government like this that, after taking up, instead of proposing laws for people, laws to improve the conditions of pensioners, disabled people, workers, families with children... There's nothing here from you. It's just these laws that don't bring anything to a common citizen. Here I would like to remind you that you have rejected the SPD's proposal several times to put SPD's laws on the agenda to increase care contributions for disabled people, to increase pensions for low-income pensioners, for those who have below-average pensions, you have also rejected that. You have also denied us the bill to nationalize executors and help people in debt traps. Of course, here you rejected the bill of referendum, we wanted to include it, you rejected it, as did other similar laws of ours. "My house, my castle," our law to strengthen the right to self-defense of citizens who are being ambushed at home. So you don't care about people at all. You're just always suggesting something for yourself that doesn't bring anything to a normal citizen. Plus, you haven't negotiated an intergovernmental agreement with Poland on the Turów mine yet. You've negotiated it completely, totally disadvantageously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u7	I also thank the President. Now another one with priority rights, who is applied for, is Mr Richard Brabec, so I will ask him. Mr Radim Fiala, Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Karel Havlíček will be ready. But before I give the floor to Mr. Richard Brabco, I'll allow myself to read three more apologies. The first apology is to Dr. Jaroslav Dvořák, from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for medical reasons. There is further clarification of the apology of Minister Martin Baxa, and that he wants an apology from 10 to 13 o'clock. The last is Mrs Barbora Urbanová's apology, from 12.50 to 14 hours for work reasons. Thank you very much. I give the floor to the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, thank you for the opportunity to speak here. Let us return to the merit of the matter again and this is the impact of the Czech-Polish contract on the consequences of mining on the Turów mine on the Czech territory. And we have a lot of questions about that. Let me begin with a brief summary of the steps to be taken, because it is important to understand what happened or what situation we were in and what happened afterwards. The Turów mine, as the locals know, has been mining in this area for almost a hundred years, but Poland decided in 2020, or before 2019, to apply for an extension of mining, which would have been until 2044 and which would have essentially affected the Czech territory or the Czech border, the Czech-Polish border. An environmental impact assessment process, the so-called EIA, has been launched. The Polák issued the decision on 21 January 2020 and 20. 3. 2020 was issued a decision to extend the mining concession in Turów mine until 2026 as an intermediate step. The Czech Republic also expressed great pressure on the Ministry of the Environment for my ministry, but, of course, under pressure from the region, under pressure from others and under pressure from local people living in the area, so we expressed our disagreement with the extension of mining and sent an initiative to the European Commission in September 2020, namely 30 September. The Czech Republic has stated to Poland that it has violated the EIA Directive, the SEA Directive, the Water Framework Directive, the Directive on public access to environmental information as well as the Treaty on European Union in connection with authorisation procedures for the extension and extension of mining. On 17 December 2020, the European Commission issued a reasoned opinion where it really found a number of serious infringements of the EIA Directive, so that it partly gave us the truth. And we, on the basis of further negotiations that took place with Poland and were not successful, so we decided and the government, on 22 February 2021, basically for a day exactly a year ago, ordered a government agent to prepare and file an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the Republic of Poland for failure to fulfil obligations under Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This action was brought on 26 February last year and with an application for interim measures. The Court of Justice has complied, and this is very substantial, the Czech request or the request of the Czech Republic, and has also ordered a preliminary measure and ordered Poland to suspend the extraction of brown coal at the Turów mine without delay until the judgment to which the proceedings in the case itself will be concluded. Here I want to say that it was certainly an extremely surprising decision for Poland, for the entire Polish public and for Polish politicians, because they did not really assume that the European Court of Justice would give the truth to the Czech Republic to the extent that it would declare such an environmental breach that it would really lead to an immediate suspension of mining. Poland, and in particular the operator of the mine PGE, has, in turn, very reluctantly responded, openly stated that it will continue to benefit regardless of the precautionary measures ordered. After all, this situation lasts until today. On 7 June last year, the government approved the material for further action against Poland, and following this, a proposal for the imposition of a penalty of EUR 5 million per day was prepared and sent to Poland for not respecting the preliminary measures imposed by the court. The negotiations accelerated after the Court imposed a periodic penalty payment on Poland on 20 September, not in the amount of EUR 5 million, but still in a very significant amount of EUR 500 000 - i.e. by converting around CZK 12,5 million at the time - daily, for every day when Poland did not meet the conditions of the interim measure. At the same time, the Court rejected Poland's request to repeal that order and thus gave the Czech Republic the truth in this regard. In other words, and that is why I stop by, since September 20, the Czech Republic has basically held an incredibly strong card that it has never had before. And I am convinced that it will never have it again, never say ever, but certainly not in some foreseeable time, and that is that Poland has been truly condemned not only to violate the EIA directive, which I think Poland would not do so much to itself, because we know from those negotiations that they actually rolled us and rolled us all the time, even before the Babišův horizon, or even Sobotkův's government. Polák are very hard negotiators, they were convinced of their truth and their claim to benefit at all costs. But now we have in hand an instrument where, by fine, sanctions of CZK 12 million a day, i.e. a sensible one, and, of course, the Polák were harshly criticized by the opposition in Poland, a whole range of local media, so we had the opportunity to push the Polák finally - finally - to the negotiating table. This also succeeded and began the preparation of the agreement, the Czech-Polish agreement, where we, as the Czech Government, had basic requirements. [[10.50 hours]] And, of course, the devil is hiding in detail. It's all about the amount that we're talking about today. By the way, I really don't understand why that amount was reduced from the required 50 to EUR 45 million. That's really small for the mine, for PGE, because the mine is and will continue to be highly profitable. And, of course, the damage that it causes in the Czech territory is and will definitely be greater. But what was absolutely crucial to us, which is why I believe that this agreement is not only because, but mainly because it is very disadvantageous for the Czech Republic and vice versa is Poland's victory, it is that Poland has managed to push the new Czech government to the condition that we have rejected several times as disadvantageous for the Czech Republic. Because we had the opportunity to conclude this contract in September last year, but as the Czech Republic, the Czech Government rejected it. And I have to say, it was perfectly in line with the Liberec Region at the time, because there was a condition - just to remind you: The mine will be mined until 2044, so 22 more years. Unless something extraordinary happens and the Polák are forced to walk away from the coal. Doesn't look like it yet. Twenty-two years. At least five more, but for more than seven years, the mine will be approaching the Czech border. In addition, there will be an increased risk that it will affect the environment more. Therefore, as a Czech government, as negotiators for the Czech government, and not only for the government, but also for the Liberec Region, we wanted that period of notice, which we will also be protected, and with the opportunity to return to the European Court of Justice, which has really helped us significantly in this case by its decision, and thanks to this, the Polák were pushed to the negotiating table - so we initially demanded 22 years of mine activity as a condition for the treaty not to be terminated. And all this time, we have had the opportunity to return to the European Court of Justice on this matter. The Polák eventually proposed ridiculous two years. Really ridiculous, totally, we laughed at them and said they couldn't even try. Then they talked about five years, which, of course, we rejected too, about seven years, we also rejected. And we said that our condition was at least 15 years, and we were willing to discuss it. But the five years for which the new Prime Minister Fiala's government has finally closed are absolutely, totally unacceptablely short periods, which in the finals means that the Czech Republic has the very strong cards in hand - the European Court of Justice's decision, sanctions on Poland CZK 12 million a day, and pressure on Poland not to really pay this penalty, because that is the amount that goes into the European Commission's register through the European Court of Justice, it does not go into the register, or it does not go into our region, Liberec, unfortunately. If it were possible, it would be better. Because the Polák today, paradoxically, paid more on fines and paid more on fines than in the finals as a penalty to the Czech Republic. That's just ridiculous. I want to stress that we have never demanded that the mine in Turów be closed or closed immediately, because, of course, we do not have such competence either, and neither should the European Court of Justice. And we didn't, and we didn't want to have the ambition to talk Polsko into his energy mix like we didn't want anyone to talk into ours. But it is simply clear that if any activity of another state causes damage to our territory and reduces the quality of life of citizens in our country, we must defend ourselves by all means available, of course. I stress again, the dispute was an extreme means, we did not want to sue Poland. Poland is otherwise a good neighbor and, of course, a partner within the framework of the V4. but especially the neighbor. However, and it has already been said here, really good accounts make good friends, and good neighbourly relations should be dealt with diplomatically or professionally, but if this fails, and this has failed, because Poland has really been very persistently rolling us, challenging the claims of the Czech Republic, and the result was the filing of an action. And I point out once again that we had the strongest cards in hand that we had in history against Poland, and the Polák knew it well. In this situation, we have dealt with Poland. And I want to assure you, and those of you who had the chance to deal with the Polák at any level, so the Polák are very tough negotiators. Very hard to say, who really go over any obstacles to their interests, and in principle questioned everything. But they were quite surprised that we were just as tough. And I don't think they were ready for that. We were very insistent, and we made it clear that we were convinced that we would win the trial. We believe that justice and justice are on our side. Because if it were on the opposite level, we had the mine on the Czech side and the Polák simply protested, they would be just as tough and would not want to compromise. Therefore, we have also clearly simply rejected the five-year notice option. We didn't even want to talk about any amount, because I still think that although money is secondary in this, I mean, we wanted guarantees for the Czech party in particular, so that the Czech Republic could defend itself effectively in the future for the next 22 years. Now imagine what the European Court of Justice would say if the Polák, in five years' time, were to declare the treaty and the Czech Republic returned with a similar lawsuit, what would the European Court of Justice say? He will say: This is what you - I will paraphrase freely, I am sorry, people - should you, dear Čech, have just agreed this in the contract for a long time. And do not follow us with the same thing when you were willing to nod for a short period of notice. This means that I really consider this to be - forgive me for the word - the softening of the Czech government. And, of course, I am also interested, we are interested when we talked about this many times within the framework of the ANO movement, what was the cause. Because I am, and today a journalist asked me about it at a press conference that he overheard that it is said that the reason why the Czech Republic signed the treaty that we rejected as disadvantageous to the Czech Republic was the reason why the Czech Republic signed it so quickly and for me it was clear that it was an international situation and relations in V4. I say again, we can perceive any international situation - and I stress that this treaty was signed, of course, before some kind of heated conflict that is coming to war, so if anyone wanted to use this argument, it is so hard - but above all, we are simply convinced that the interests of Czech citizens must logically take precedence here. And if it were the other way around, I guarantee you that the Polák wouldn't even be dealing with an international aspect and whether we have good relationships or not having good relationships in the V4. That's added value. But clearly the interest of Czech citizens, citizens of the Liberec Region, who are mainly affected by this, is simply primary. That means the deal, compared to when we were actually handing it over to the new government, is weaker in several parameters. Much weaker. For me, the basic parameter is, of course, the notice period, which, I repeat, was not acceptable to us either, and was not acceptable to the Liberec Region either. We agreed at the time in negotiations with representatives of the Liberec Region that we would never defend this short statement of the agreement. They never defended the government in front of other members of the government or in the Liberec Region before citizens who would logically ask - why? Next, of course, there's a lower amount. Again, it is undignified in my opinion and in Poland to play some EUR 5 million. Really, it's change for the mine. And the Czech Republic is entitled to that right. The Czech side has also backed out of demand that the excavation can go to a maximum depth of 12 meters below sea level. The contract turned up 30 meters in the end. And here again, the reasoning of Polsko and the mine of PGE proved, unfortunately, as it always was: they, of course, did not act all the time, so they naturally continued. So I consider this result to be a big mistake that can come back to us. And I don't want to be a bad prophet, but I'm almost convinced that he's going to retaliate. Because in the five and a half years, we will be in a position from which we will no longer be able to get out of the way that we now had this opportunity, when the European Commission was on our side, to convince us, albeit not in its entirety, only in some pleas, but in the essentials, especially from the point of view of the EIA, the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice has also given us credit. And as I said before, we had the biggest, strongest cards, because Poland's biggest motivation for negotiations really was the sanctions. And we do not have to lie to ourselves that this was not the case, because otherwise Poland tried in any way to show that it was not their fault that it was due to drought, that the Czech party was making up. And those, let's just say, reasons I've heard a lot. [[11.00 hours]] I'm convinced we just threw away a historic chance. In addition, as the information comes, others and others were available, we have not yet had it, the monitoring, but the new government has already had monitoring of the measurements, actually a new, say, hydrogeological not entirely model, but the results of the measurements from those wells in 2021, i.e. a whole new number that shows that the underground wall, the barrier that was actually supposed to prevent the water drain, and it is almost or mostly finished today, is far from fulfilling the role it had. That means, there will undoubtedly be a need to continue to significantly adjust other drains from that territory, because the hydrogeological model is changing there. This information is newly available and it was held by the new Czech government in the negotiations. So, regardless of the good neighbourly relations that I also appreciate, we simply have to defend the interests of Czech people. We must defend the right of people in that area not only for drinking water, but for any water, because the money will build new water pipes, which will probably bring drinking water to coal and other areas, but, of course, there is a loss of water in the landscape, a loss of surface water that will continue. And I believe that this information, when the agreement, as I said, was signed at a time when the monitoring information was already in existence, when he confessed to us, coincidentally - if I am not mistaken, it was the same day, and for me it was a huge surprise, how quickly the agreement eventually baked, how strangely, at least I heard that it was not officially in the government, and finally appeared there, was put on the table - the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice, so that increased our chances. And it was also signed at the time when the Polish party called off its ambassador in Prague because he said, among other things, that the dispute between Prague and Warsaw about the brown coal mine was a lack of empathy, a lack of understanding and a lack of willingness to dialogue, especially - weighing, listen well - on the Polish side. So the Polish ambassador named it, I think, by the very real name, and then he was, or I don't know if for it, but I suppose, I can speculate so, dismissed, he was punished for naming the truth the way it was, because we don't have to be ashamed and we didn't have to be ashamed of anything. And we certainly did not work with Poland as humiliated petitioners, who are asking for an agreement at all costs and are trying to defend every euro there, because, once again, I say, Poland will continue to benefit from the Turów mine for 22 years. It's a key mine for him, making hundreds of billions of crowns, or at least tens of billions at that time, but I think it's more like hundreds. And let me remind you again, and I find that completely absurd, some of the interesting statements of today's coalition, the former opposition. For example, Madam President, today's Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, formerly a member of the Committee on the Environment, and I remember this well because I, of course, sat on the committee as a minister and listened to it, says: I call on the Government to oppose Poland's energy interests and to defend Czech interests harshly. Yet I am skeptical of the government's activity and its sincere efforts to stand up for our citizens. We have adopted a resolution on the Environment Committee, which clearly states that we do not agree with the expansion of mining, and at the same time we have called on the government to ensure compensation for water loss. We will not let this problem go away, and we will continue to push the government. Or then a Member of the House, today Mr. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Marian Jurečka. I quote: it is unacceptable to exchange water for money, we simply can never accept it. And those statements of today's coalition, the former opposition, including, of course, STAN politicians or Pirates, we would have found much more. And I think my colleagues are gonna mention some of them. These challenges were addressed to the former government, Babišův's government, but the hell with the current one, what do you think? And I ask, why is the Speaker of the House or Minister Jurečka silent now? Why are they suddenly okay with their government retreating to Poland and not defending Czech interests? Because if they criticised our agreement, this agreement is worse, clearly worse for the Czech Republic and is better for Poland. On the form, at least this way I am informed only from the media, the contracts to Turów allegedly were not informed even by members of Pirates and STAN. And I ask, are they okay with that? I don't see any of the pirát here today, not even the Vice-President, but maybe that's symbolic, because the pirát had environmental issues as one of their main points in the past period, but now they're sitting in ministerial and other high posts and they're quiet. So I'm also interested in their opinion whether the President and Minister Ivan Bartoš also voted in favour of the government, but I presume they did. And how will he justify that within the Pirates? Because the pirát were very loud at the time. Finally, colleagues, I would like to ask you to approve the agenda for today's meeting and open the debate, for one simple reason, so that our colleagues from the regions can also express themselves, but also your colleagues from the regions to which it is most relevant, that is, from the Liberec Region, and they can ask questions, and again I say, for example, why the agreement signed so rashly at a time when we had a really strong position in hand with such a short notice, why suddenly there are the conditions that this government, or today's government, the previous opposition, criticised in the negotiations, are even worse. Why did the content of the agreement become public after media pressure? Why was this deal really cooked at the last minute? Suddenly, Prime Minister Morawiecki arrived in Prague, I think very surprisingly. Whether our autumn Presidency of the European Council or the Presidency in the second half of this year plays a role here, whether it has a European or, say, an international character? Why did we retreat, why did the Czech government become soft in the negotiations and sign the terms that we would, and say again, never sign? Just why is there an agreement in the world that I really believe at this point is Poland's victory in the finals? So Poland has achieved what I have also heard that Poland is waiting for a new Czech government, that it will be better agreed with and that the new Czech government will be more helpful to Polish demands than Babišův's government has been. And unfortunately, when I see the signed contract today, it came true. The new Czech government has simply gone soft and I am convinced that we will pay for it in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u9	I thank the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Club, with priority rights Richard Brabec. And now, with priority rights, the chairman of the SPD MP Radim Fiala is registered. President Andrej Babiš will prepare, then Madam Secretary of the Environment Alena Hubáčková and Mr Karel Havlíček. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u10	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to speak with priority in favour of the SPD's parliamentary club. Of course, no one knows everything, and I am now going to tell you about the Turów mine, consulted with a member of the SPD movement, Mr Radek Vícha, who is also a regional representative of the Liberec Region, who has been interested in this issue for a very long time because he actually lives there. I think it is the right principle of subsidiarity when we should deal with these things for the benefit of the people who live in the locality. And, of course, I don't think they'd want anything bad for the environment and things that concern their surroundings and their close relatives who live in the locality. So, of course, Radek Vích and I consulted. He's a big part of the fact that something's going on. And I will now tell you the SPD's position on the Turów mine. [[11.10 hours]] Today, therefore, there is a meeting of the House and an extraordinary meeting on the issue of an intergovernmental agreement between the current government of Petr Fiala and the Polish Government on compensation for damage caused by the deepening of mining limits in the border brown coal mine Turów - Bogatynia. The SPD considers this situation in the Frýdlant region to be extremely disturbing in the long term. Our then regional representative, today a Member for the Liberec Region, Mr Ing. Radovan Vích points out the impending loss of groundwater in the wells of the Frýdlantský výklužku and the threat of flora and fauna in the entire Jizera Mountains Belt since 2018, because all the region's negotiations with the Czech Government, the Ministry of the Environment and the Polish Party in the framework of compensatory bailouts have not produced any concrete positive results, and our current regional representatives in the Liberec Region have also long been interested in this issue. Let me sum up the basic facts. Mining on the Polish side of the border in the brown coal mine Turów has swallowed up five Polish municipalities and is to continue to expand. The surface mine has been burdening the environment with dust and noise for a long time, but the worst is the gradual loss of drinking water from groundwater, which significantly affects Czech territory. Moreover, the future expansion of mining could make the situation even worse. This is evident from the plans to extend the mine to 300 meters from the Czech municipality of Uhelná. For an idea of how large the area of the mine is Turów, respectively the planned extent of mining: after the end of the mining in 2044 Poland plans to build a lake of 2,000 hectares and a depth of 140 metres, but this complicates the lack of water in the landscape. The absurdity of this proposal is beautifully demonstrated by comparison with, for example, the largest Czech pond Rožmberk, which has an area of 426,5 hectares, which would be more than four times the water surface. The mine is located just beyond the Czech border in the so-called Bogatyňský promenade between the Czech and German border, which almost fills the whole, respectively to fill in in the future. The impact on Polish territory is therefore significantly smaller than on the territory of the Czech Republic and Germany. Moreover, the Polish Government's decision on the complications which it did not take more into account to these two countries and, above all, their citizens living in close proximity to the mine. [[Causes?]] That's very disturbing. For example, the concrete effects of this mining were such that walls burst in the villages on German territory. Neighboring Czech villages face a significant drop in underground water. The situation is all the worse that mining is supposed to take many years, until 2044, and we do not know if it can stretch out for any reason, but there is absolutely nothing to rule out today. What happens after the end of mining in almost half of this century is also uncertain. As I said, the Polish government is planning to flood the area down there, make a giant lake. I remind you that already affected Czech communities have a problem with the lack of groundwater. What about in the case of such an ambitious lake filling scenario of 2,000 hectares of water? According to an article from the web news News. cz from July 29, 2021 - I quote: Moreover, the flooding of the pit is expected to last for four decades according to Polish estimates. But some environmentalists talk about at least one century. For example, the North Bohemian Lake Most, a recultivated mine pit, is facing similar difficulties. Why the Polák have provisionally chosen this approach, and if they have sufficient reason to believe that it will succeed, it is not clear. As the Czech Ministry of Environment said, Poland will issue a reclamation plan in the future. - That's the end of the quote. This shows that these are not realistic and helpful to the neighbors, i.e. friendly, reclamation plans for us. As is the case in Germany, the article on the website News from July 27, 2021. Again, I quote: Polák estimate that the flooded mine will last 35 to 37 years. The special hydrotechnical system is used to help bring water from the river trough Lužická Nisa into the tank. And that's what the German party questioned. Hydrogeologist Ralph Krupp said that flooding such a huge mine would take several human generations. The flood time can reach up to 144 years, said Krupp. - End of quote. But what is the situation in the affected Czech municipalities and cities? That's what we're most interested in. There is no abandoned landscape on the Czech side of the border. There are the villages of Uhelná and Oldřichov on the border, which are located nearest the state border with Poland. A short distance away are the villages Václavice and Grabštejn. The town of Hrádek nad Nisou, which has a total of 7 000 inhabitants, and several other villages. There are people everywhere who do not want to be restricted in their lives by the giant mining activities of a foreign neighbor. The worst situation is in municipalities that have no water supply and have so far had a comfortable water source in their own wells. The water level is dropping but the mining activities are dropping. That is why it is understandable that when these people learned about the planned expansion of mining, in addition until 2044, they were appalled and began to protest in various ways. Unfortunately, the Czech authorities' negotiations with the Polish side have not been effective enough for a long time. On the contrary, the Polish state power company PGE received an extension of the concession for brown coal mining in the Turów mine from the Polish Ministry of Climate. Ignoring the views of the Czech Party by the Polish Government was so intense that it ended up being sued by the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2021. The EU Court of Justice subsequently ordered Poland to suspend the extraction at the Turów mine immediately by a preliminary measure of 21 May 2021. Since this did not happen, in October 2021 it finally caused (?) Poland for serious negotiations with the Czech party, but it still offered rather disadvantageous conditions. That is why the contract was not concluded last year, it is not concluded until this year by the government of the five-wheelers in a hurry, without more information to the public, and now it is clear why. This contract is simply not advantageous for the Czech Republic. I will recall Mr Richard Brabec's speech for the ANO movement, which spoke here before me on 16 February 2022, which was the previous Minister of the Environment and stated that the ďábel is hiding in detail in this agreement with Poland, and in this case it is true twice, because some of the terms of the contract are disadvantageous for the Czech Republic. He also pointed out that the former government had the opportunity to conclude this contract in September last year, but refused it because of the conviction of the disadvantage of this contract for the Czech Republic. What was actually accepted by this contract with Poland about the Turów mine? This Treaty has already entered into force and was published in the Collection of International Treaties on 10 February 2022. I quote from the article in Deník on 7 February 2022: Poland, according to the agreement, will not expand the extent of the mining in Turów to the Czech border and the mining pit will not be deepened more than 30 metres below sea level unless the underground barrier is completed and its functionality is demonstrated, the natural wall is built and monitoring requirements will not be met and monitoring wells will not be established. [[11.20 hours]] According to the agreement, the Polish Party undertook to establish four new wells for the measurement of groundwater levels and to include all wells in the joint Czech-Polish monitoring network. If, after completion of the construction of the underground barrier, the water level in selected wells does not start to rise or decline by 30 June 2023 at the latest, it will not be possible for the mining to advance beyond the border planned by Poland for 2023, the Ministry stated. If the mine continues to cause a drop in groundwater levels, the Polish side is to take further measures such as extension, further sealing or deepening of the barrier. If the groundwater level in certain wells were to fall by more than 8 metres within six months, Poland would immediately have to stop the existing scope of current mining work towards the Czech border. According to the agreement, the Czech party in the mine can carry out checks four times a year. Poland must also inform the Czech Republic about ongoing proceedings or their changes related to mining, in particular the procedures for the authorisation of mining activities. Both countries will form together The small project fund and will contribute a total of €250,000 a year, which is about CZK 6 million, to regional projects for improving the environment. The agreement may be withdrawn by notification to the other Party after five years at the earliest. The withdrawal shall take place six months after the notification has been given. However, a number of its provisions will be applicable until the end of the mining operation, unless the parties agree otherwise. This concerns, for example, noise monitoring, air quality, terrain movement or groundwater levels. - End of quote. When I sum up the concerns of the Czech public that concern this problem, the public sees the biggest problem in the two following matters. One. It's a lack of functioning of the underground barrier. They're worried it won't help with the loss of groundwater. Secondly, they find it risky to withdraw from the agreement after five years. In the worst-case scenario, this would mean that the agreement will end in 2027, but the mining will continue until 2044, i.e. for the next 17 years, which really indicates the disadvantage of this contract. It is precisely these concerns that Mr Richard Brabec has already ventilated in the House. I quote: "The Turów mine should benefit by 2044, unless, of course, something happens that will shorten that period. But also, in theory, something could happen to prolong that period. That is why we wanted it to be impossible to terminate this contract all this time, because, in theory and practically all this time, the impact on the Czech Republic can continue. The Polák didn't question it for a long time, and they didn't even talk about it. And all of a sudden, a few hours before the meeting was over, or before we thought we had the finals, they just came up with the idea that they didn't want anything like that. And they came up with a two-year notice, which, of course, was ridiculous. And then it began to quite hard to negotiate how long the notice period would be. It's been on their side for five years. We clearly rejected this, because the mine will be approaching the Czech border for perhaps another seven years, and the whole time, at least seven years, it can have even greater or greater negative effects on Czech territory. We turned it down the same way, but they never offered it. Seven years, as well as ten years. For us, it was at least 15 years as such, and we were probably a little willing to discuss it, but it was just 15 years official. - End of quote. This explains a lot whether the current contract from Turów is advantageous for the Czech Republic or not. It also explains why the new government acted so opaquely, without inviting the representatives of the public concerned and quickly. They just wanted to get it over with and brag about it like a big success. But they may not have realized that this quick and inconsistent solution would create a much bigger problem in the future. Now, while the Polish government has sent financial transactions under the new treaty, they can build the necessary water lines in good management of the region. However, if the Polish government terminates the contract after five years, but it will continue to benefit, even longer than is said, nothing will help us in this regard at all. And I'll remind you of the utopian project of the giant lake on the site of the mine, which could run from the circus of the middle of this century to the end of the century, or also another 40 years longer. That's fantastic. Of course, it would be a massive drain on water from the entire region. It's nonsense. I am convinced that the current government of Petr Fiala has so-called softened, so it has retreated, and the key parameter, which I consider to be the possibility of giving notice of the contract, has finally been signed for five years. I really consider this to be a big mistake that can avenge us, because after five years, we can easily get into a position that we will no longer be able to sue under the same legal title, i.e. a breach of the EIA directive, and that is a success. The whole situation, however, is sad that we need to develop cooperation with Poland as an important V4 country. But it should be mutually beneficial cooperation. And the government should take great care of that aspect, not retreat in negotiations. We also don't like the fact that if she thinks it's a small project fund, why should both parties contribute to it? Not only Poland, but also the Czech Republic. Both states amounting to €250,000, i.e. approximately CZK 6 million a year. It's supposed to go to projects to improve the environment, but why should the Czech Republic pay if it's a Polish mine? We don't have a mine there. On our side there are only costs resulting from the existence of this mine Turów and also the mine Bogatynia, which is also in this area. The problem is also with the barrier to address the drop in groundwater. Its critics remind us that the barrier originally wasn't meant to be used for this purpose, to prevent a drop in the bottom waters, but most importantly, it's very likely that it won't work because the bottom water will override the barrier. The barrier, the miner's wall, it's just misplaced. I therefore appeal to the Government, when it has so recklessly agreed to negotiate a contract with Poland and concluded it a little too quickly and disadvantageably for the Czech Republic, so any contract can be terminated, or an amendment can be made if there is will and effort. We believe in the SPD that this is a completely disadvantageous contractual compensation of just EUR 45 million, i.e. CZK 1 billion, with the government and the rest of the municipality concerned receiving EUR 10 million through the Liberec Region. I am just adding that seven years ago two project remedial studies were carried out at the level of the Liberec Region, one of which speaks of costs of 2.1 billion, and the other even more than CZK 4 billion, and that the current government sold it in quotation marks to Poland for just CZK 1 billion is quite scandalous in our opinion. We are therefore fundamentally opposed to this treaty, which the government should terminate. According to us, the current government of Petr Fiala did not act sufficiently on this matter and sold our water for practically a splash. It is not beneficial for citizens in the Liberec region who will lose water in their wells, and we will all lose Jizera Mountains within a few decades. We take the view that we should demand much more money from Poland and carry out other remedial and compensatory measures, as well as guaranteeing the contractual performance of Poland. This was in a nutshell the opinion of the SPD movement on the Turów mine and the treaty negotiated by the Czech government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, too, Mr President. I'll take the liberty of reading my apologies. I have here an apology from Mr Ondřej kolář, today between 13:00 and 15:30 for reasons of work, then there is an apology from Mr Jiří Slavík, today from 13:30 to the end of the day for health reasons, there is also an apology from Mr Aleš Juchelka, today between 11:00 and 12:30 for reasons of work, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek between 11:00 and 12:00 for reasons of work, Mrs Alena Schillerová between 11:00 and 12:00 also for reasons of work. Then here again I have Ondřej Kolář between 10.30 and 10.45 for work reasons and Minister Jozef Síkela from 12.00 to the end of the day for work reasons. [[11.30 hours]] And now I would ask that the President of the ANO movement, Mr Andrej Babiš, come to the speaker's desk with priority rights. The Secretary of the Environment will be ready. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Madam President, honourable Members. Even though there is a conflict in Ukraine that is watching the whole world and where international law has been violated, the invasion and act of aggression against the sovereign Ukrainian state, we do not take into account the interests of the people of the Liberec region, our citizens, who are experiencing a huge problem at these moments. Turów's problem. The problem caused by Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government. And I'd like to talk in my speech not only about Turów, but also about water. In my opinion, every day when this government does not work is a real blessing for the Czech Republic. This government has sent us three things to the House, and the net result is three troubles. The first was the pandemic law, which the government was pouting. The second is the state budget, which is totally messed up, and as I say, it's all messed up. And again, I want to ask the Prime Minister to give us a breakdown of the so-called savings, the 77 billion. What fell into your lap, your government, the 62,4 billion in terms of high inflation and taxes, so I've already written that down for you and suggested, so maybe it would be good to think about it. And the third, of course, is completely useless selective support to people at a time when energy is getting more expensive. All this trouble, however, trumps today's topic, and this is the Turów Treaty, which this government approved under such secrecy that even some ministers did not know what they were voting for. Kauza Turów is a thing that personally affects me, because water protection is a thing that I care about in the long term. In 2019, when I visited South Moravia at a time of critical drought, I helped find new projects to prevent drought. In the same year, we organized and helped organize the exhibition Water and Civilization, so that the rest of the Republic could pass from Prague. She was a huge success, and a lot of people visited her. It was our government that put CZK 16,5 billion in 2014 in the fight against drought, floods and water resources. We supported more than 21.5 thousand projects, namely we helped 911 projects of municipalities for a new or strengthened source of drinking water for CZK 1.2 billion. In addition, we supported 71 projects for the construction or reconstruction of taps, taps and water treatment plants for about a billion crowns. Also more than 10,000 projects for planting greenery, revitalization of watercourses, restoration of wetlands and pools or construction of wetlands for CZK 8 billion, 8 322 projects for households in the programme Dešťovka amount to CZK 320 million or 167 projects for improving the management of precipitation water in municipalities for CZK 584 million. It was our government that prepared a major amendment to the water law dealing with drought in 2020. And it was we who launched the new research programme of the Ministry of Environment called Environment for life, in which CZK 3.8 billion is prepared, for research and innovation related to drought and climate change is reserved 50 percent of these resources, i.e. at least CZK 1.9 billion. Every time I visited Israel, I admired the way he handled the water. We helped publish a book in the Czech Republic So be the water written by Seth Siegel and is one of the most successful books in our country. It was created in cooperation with our Minister Richard Brabc. And I suggest you all read it before anyone talks about water. Because I'm really wondering if you think the Izraelec would sign a similar agreement as Prime Minister Fiala. Definitely not. Because they know that water is a strategic raw material and without water there is no life. And it seems to me that the government is suffering from some kind of memory loss. The government does not remember that the Czech Republic has dealt with the drought problem several times in recent years. They really don't remember that we had a problem with the cracked ground? The media then wrote: The continuing drought and the lack of precipitation could affect the decline in Czech GDP by up to 1.6% in the future. Scientists from the Centre for Water, Land and Landscape at the Czech University of Agriculture have calculated that the decline would be up to 80 billion crowns. But I understand that when the tap water comes out, it doesn't matter. But it is not so at the border with Turów, of course, because those who voted in the government for this agreement threw Czech citizens overboard. Because it may surprise them, but this isn't just about those people not having water, but the landscape there will turn into a desert. Why? Because this government approved an agreement that is disadvantageous for the Czech Republic and did not go to Czech citizens at all. Of course, it can't surprise us because the ODS has been treating the water in stepmothers for years. All you have to do is remind yourself of the privatisation of taps in the '90s. It was the ODS, which, under strange circumstances, privatized water and sewerage, and it is, of course, their responsibility that water is now more expensive in a number of regions. Yes, it is their fault that the price of water in Prague today is CZK 107 and it is more expensive water than in Berlin, Vienna, Zurich, Barcelona and Paris. Prague 107, Paris 55 kroner, Barcelona 50, Zurich 60, Vienna 71, Berlin 73. Prague is number one. The most expensive water in Europe. And these are prices that are based on the Water News Europe expert server. Also, Prague has twice as much water as the people of Warsaw or Rome. Unbelievable. It is characteristic that Prime Minister Fiala's government has thrown overboard citizens who already have one of the most expensive waters in the Czech Republic today. If they have one at all, because they may not even have the expensive one anymore because of the five-calice. This government completely capitulated at an incomprehensible moment, namely 3 February 2022, at the time when the lawyer of the Court of Justice of the European Union gave the truth to the Czech Republic in the dispute over the continuation of mining in the Polish brown coal mine Turów. Poland, according to him, violated EU law when it did not assess the impact of new work on the environment in the mine near the Czech border. The lawyer's position is not binding on the judge, but is generally taken into account. So let me get this straight. The new government has fundamentally retreated from our positions, from what we negotiated, and at a time when it already seemed that the Czech Republic would actually win. And when I say that they've retreated, it's really under strange circumstances. First, the new government jumped to better Poland with the fact that the famous wall, which is designed to prevent the draining of water from the Czech Republic, is built for us. Well, it's not. It was built by the Polish side so that our water wouldn't flow into the mine. And the next point, since January, we also know that she was supposed to defend the drain, but she's not. And to defend it when it's one kilometer away from what we need! This is clear from the results of the January hydrological study. And, of course, there are more violations in the contract. [[11.40 hours]] This is not just about the fact that we have retreated, that Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government has retreated, and instead of fifteen years we now have poor protection for the Czech Republic for only five years. In five years' time, we will have a common smolík and we will no longer judge a crown, despite the fact that at that time the mine will be about 70 meters from the Czech border. This is not even about moving in money, but also about the fact that this government has retreated in the end, the mine will not be 12 meters deep, but 30 meters deep. And all this please for some one billion crowns. Before the elections, the new coalition promised to anchor water protection in the constitution and a few days after the elections they signed a completely disadvantageous contract for the Czech Republic. It has become such a folklore of this government that it throws everything at us, even maybe the wind we had this weekend, but I'll tell you why we didn't sign this contract. The contract's bad, we didn't want to back down. Waiting is, and maybe someone in the government doesn't know that, also part of the negotiations. And all the more I appreciate the pirát being with us, even though they're not sitting here. And it's a surprise for me, because that's the second thing that pirát and I even agree that the Turów Treaty is a pasquil, that we're supposed to help people with rising energy prices across the board. So even the pirát are in agreement with us. And Ivan Bartoš at the Pirates' Internal Forum wrote that Petr Fiala more or less threw this contract on the table with the words "that's how it's going to be." Well, there's another dissatisfied man here, Mr. Captain Martin Půta. He too quickly sobered up from euphoria that the treaty was perfect until today, when he also pointed out that the treaty was not so good. And, of course, changes of opinion are even more remarkable with him. After all, he was the one who negotiated on Minister Brabec and Deputy Smolek's team, negotiated on a weekly basis. The Polák didn't negotiate with us for five years until after we sued, they finally agreed to negotiate. He knows why we Půtan't want to step down from our positions. I've never negotiated this before. I once told Prime Minister Morawiecký, everything was arranged, only the notice period wasn't, and we had a clear position there, even though he tried on me, so I said no, we have a team to set up our experts. And then, of course, it's interesting that the Polish Minister says, well, the new government wanted to make a deal, and the old one didn't really want to. Well, of course, if it's in favour of Poland, then why wouldn't she be happy? So all I'm asking is, why didn't Mr. Governor Půta block the contract? Because he knows that our positions were immutable and we had the capacity to negotiate a much better treaty. No one said why the contract had to be signed so quickly, what was the reason to qualify and secretly negotiate about it. I mean, it's clear that the contract is really pasculi. The government boasts that it has won EUR 45 million for the Czech Republic from Poland. But the Turów power plant has a power output of 1 970 megawatts, so it produces 47 280 megawatts per day. In Poland, electricity is traded for €140 per megawatt, so it produces electricity for €6,570,000 a day. So, respectable citizens, the Polák have the money at home in seven days of production of the Turów mine. Yes, seven days' return, that's really good! So that's the success the ministers are talking about, and the new government is stressing how great it all is. Well, in fact, the government sold part of the republic for a few change. Yesterday, an overwhelming legal analysis came out from Bold Bold, which says that a contract is illegal, illegal, wrong, senseless. They say that the Czech government should renegotiate with the Polish side. And if the government doesn't want to do it alone, then there is a way, a possibility, to proceed in accordance with § 15 para. 4 of Law No. 167/2008 Coll., on the prevention and correction of environmental damage and on the amendment of certain laws. Then we will have to inform the European Commission about damage to the environment of the Czech Republic and we will have to start proceedings on cross-border damage. So let's say it the way it is. This government sold its citizens and its territory in exchange for a few politicians being able to walk through a press conference and make shoulders for what they are. At the same time, Mr Jurečka and Mrs Pekarová criticized us terribly and did what they themselves criticized. That's classic. So it didn't work out, it didn't work out with journalists, it didn't work out with people. And we are, of course, a joke to the Polák. The worst part is that this is actually a business card for the negotiating powers of this new government, which is rather incompetent. That's how our foreign partners feel. So it must be noted that in the European Union, each country primarily fights for its own interests. And everyone talks about European solidarity, but the moment the doors close, they all fight for their interests, but of course also for European solidarity, but in the second row. So we need to know why the Prime Minister and what he traded this deal for. I don't understand what he'll get from Poland. Unfortunately, now that the Prime Minister was in Brussels, he did not participate in V4, V4 was not, it is a pity, because it was an opportunity to ask Viktor Orbán, who, through the Hungarian state company, owns the company Innoga, which has 70 percent of the gas distribution in the Czech Republic. Hungarian state firm. We've got nothing, we've sold everything, water, gas, electricity too, everything's gone, privatization, coupon. So that's the situation, and, of course, I would love to know why such a contract was signed. Finally, I will read the main thesis: The agreement does not guarantee or require the protection of the Czech territory from the loss of water or from the devastation of the landscape. In the agreement proposed measures can only partially mitigate the damage suffered, in addition in the long term. The underground wall, which is the only measure to protect Czech water, was built to protect the mine. Absurd. In addition, it costs several meters away from the drain of water from our territory. At the time of signing the agreement, the Czech Government had available new hydrological data for 2021, which confirm that the underground waters on the Czech side continue to drop. The Government's conclusion of the agreement violated legal obligations under the Environmental Damage Act, inter alia, because it resigned to ensure preventive measures to protect Czech water. The government has also violated the principle of division of power because it has exceeded the limits set by the legislator to the government as the executive power to negotiate international treaties. Intergovernmental agreements cannot exceed the legal limits. In addition, the Government has committed itself for at least five and a half years not to enforce an infringement against Poland under European law before the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, states cannot agree together and choose which of the obligations arising from national or European legislation will be fulfilled and which do not. The Government signed the Turów Agreement just on the day that the Czech lawsuit was brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union by the Advocate General of the Court of Justice. The chances of winning a lawsuit were so high. So it would be good, Prime Minister, if you could actually tell me why you signed such a disadvantageous contract and why at the very time it happened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with priority rights, Minister Anna Hubáčková will speak. Before I give her my word, I'll read the apology. Mrs Eva Decroix apologizes for the whole of today's day for work reasons and for President Alena Schillerová between 12.00 and 13.00 for work reasons. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u14	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, today's extraordinary meeting is dedicated to the impacts of the Turów mine activity on the territory of the Czech Republic and its environmental damage, and it is therefore a bit of a surprise to me that today's meeting is so critical. [[A contract?]] I would like to say that it is a good solution in relation to the Czech Republic that we have won, not that we have lost, on the contrary, that from it the lines Poland. I'm going to explain a few things, and I'm going to start by saying that mining has been going on in this area for a hundred years, maybe even more. The major damage to our environment occurred in the 1980s, so it was more than 40 years ago, by overpowering a certain insulation layer and by starting to lose groundwater. At first it was quite radical, gradually it fell by 70 meters over the whole period of mining from the 1980s until now, around 2020. How to deal with the conditions for mining has been discussed for several years and most intensively after the Czech Republic has brought an action. The negotiating team that worked on the contract was composed of experts on both law, international law, environmental aspects, and expert organisations. And the negotiating team, I would like to point out, was still the same. Only the ministers changed at a certain time. The negotiating team has been working for Minister Brabec all along, and that is why, or also why, I do not consider the substantial part of the contract to be bad. On the contrary, it is very good professionally built. It is not true that it does not protect the interests of the Czech Republic and the interests of Czech citizens, on the contrary. It's not true that we were holding strong cards in our hands that we could finish this lawsuit. It is true that we obtained what could be obtained, because the conditions that were eventually made public on 30 September were still commented on by the Polish party in November when it wrote that it asked for a change in the amount of compensation to 34 and a change in the supervision of the European Court of Justice for three years. I have not heard that the Polish side would ever apply in the process: we will wait for a new government, it will be weaker. On the other hand, I heard the Polish party informed me that it was impossible to agree on the treaty because they were depending on the new government, and I understand that. Our deal was signed after I went into the field. My first work visit was in the Liberec Region in Hrádek nad Nisou, where I met the mayors, I met with Mr Starc, and I asked them how the way of negotiations seemed to them, whether everything was accepted from their side, whether their demands were included in the agreement, whether they knew about them. I think that I have said everything to them and that the agreement is in line with what the territory needs and what the citizens of this territory need. To the speed of negotiation. I don't know. The deal's been negotiated for a very long time. We just finished it. And that we finished it on February 3rd, the day the Advocate General's position came out is actually very good. The motivation of the Polish party to conclude the contract with us was less from day to day, their pressure to change the attributes of the contract was growing, because they paid a fine, or there was a penalty from the preliminary measure of the European Court. There is a lot of spread that we had strong cards in our hands and that the European Court would give us credit and that we could, thanks to the lawsuit, achieve more money, greater rights, even better terms of the treaty. It's not like that. I'm here to quote from the Opinion of the Advocate General. At the very beginning, he commented - I will read the sentence: In this context, it should be hoped that the conclusions reached by the Court in this judgment will form the basis for a future agreement between the two Member States, which will enable them to reconcile their respective interests in the spirit of good neighbourly relations, while ensuring full compliance with Union law. The Advocate General's proposal - and I would like to quote a conclusion here, which would probably also be the conclusion of the action and the decision of the Court of Justice. The Czech Republic sued at eleven pleas. The Court ruled in our favour in four cases: by adopting legislation allowing the competent administrative authorities to extend the mining permit without assessing the environmental impact - the Republic of Poland has infringed. So one. By not publishing the content of the decision authorising the mining activity until 2026 and the conditions and considerations attached thereto - the Republic of Poland has infringed. By not publishing the content of the decision authorising the activity by 2026 in accordance with the Act on public access to environmental information, the Polish party violated. The Republic of Poland has failed to fulfil its obligations under the principle of loyal cooperation. On the other seven points, our action was rejected, including the plea, where we sought damage to the water department: on this point, for the reasons set out above, I propose to reject this plea as unfounded. It is therefore not true that, by decision of the European Court of Justice, we would achieve that brown coal mining would stop, that the Polish court would grant us some compensatory measures or that it would lay down conditions under which Poland would compensate us for the damage caused to our environment. We couldn't, and so it wasn't, the lawsuit the Czech Republic - Poland, from the point of view of the Environmental Damage Directive for one simple reason. Environmental damage can be sued on the basis of the Damage Directive and its Annex III only for the activities listed in this Annex, and unfortunately, mining is not mentioned there. Perhaps we can learn from this: appeal to adjust certain international rights and those relating to the environment. [[12.00 hours]] The agreement that has therefore been concluded is the only and very good solution to finally start working to protect our environment. Until the conclusion of the agreement, we had no information at all, the Polish party did not provide information on its extraction, the extent of water extraction, the measurement of individual environmental components. On the day of the signing of the contract, she accepted the conditions when we already have this information. Some of the projects they gave us are translated into Czech, but the terms of the agreement are now being fulfilled. The agreement is, once again, to emphasise, in accordance with all law, Czech, Union and international. And I'm sure it's a disadvantage for Poland. For one thing, compensatory funds had to be passed on to us, but these are things that I consider to be a perfect bonus in terms of environmental protection, so that we can build water lines, which, if there were no agreement, we would never get any compensation money from Poland, so we would have to build water lines from our sources. But it's like I said, extra bonus. What is beneficial for us from the point of view of the agreement and what we will enforce and what expert groups have already started working on, Poland has committed itself to building a natural wall - which will noisy the territory, greening, so that it will also partially fulfil the function of reducing air pollution and will certainly be one of the elements that will prevent light pollution - behind its territory. Furthermore, Poland, in cooperation with our experts, is already picking up places where it will place noise measuring devices, where air pollution stations will be located, and at the same time we will also be picking places for drilling monitoring wells to measure groundwater levels in the Czech territory and complete monitoring in Polish territory. The Polish side, as has been said, is very much the subject of negotiations, disputes and complaints, building a hydraulic wall. This was not a condition of our party, it is the Polish side actually building itself as a barrier to the flow of our water to them in the mine. The hydraulic wall is placed to prevent the largest drain, and of course it will also have a positive effect on us. If it can be built according to the project that is here, and if it meets all tests of impermeability after the annual test operation, it can gradually increase the groundwater level and can also affect and improve water in the source of drinking water in the municipality of Uhelná. If the wall fails to meet the parameters, the agreement solves its deepening, enlargement and, if it does not meet this, the halt of mining towards the Czech Republic. For the first time in the agreement, we also received map documents for mining and the line in Annex 1, where mining will stop if the hydraulic wall does not work at 30. 6. 2023, it's clearly marked. Why the intergovernmental agreement is a better solution than the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, I hope it is clear from this. By decision of the Court, we should decide that Poland has not complied with certain procedural matters in the process of assessing the effects of certain procedural matters, disclosures, proper postings and the like, but Poland has replaced these things here already, there has been a new process of assessing the effects, so the defects have already been removed. So maybe we should have a ruling from the Court that will give us the truth, but we shouldn't want any leverage further in the Republic of Poland to want information, to want measures, to want to build a wall of earth, a hydraulic wall, and certainly not want funds. Now I would like to comment on the supervision of the European Court of Justice and on what is written in the Treaty. I would like to point out a little bit that this contract is concluded, please, for the mining period, not for the five years that are constantly being discussed here. For the entire period of mining and at some points even five years after the end of mining, because we also want to watch some of the beginnings of the work on reclamation. During the entire mining period, monitoring will take place not only for us, but also for them, for the mutual transfer of information and for the contract also solves the case where we dispute, both sides of each other. So, regardless of the length of the notice period, I am responsible for saying that if we were to prove by measuring our environmental components that there is damage, we have a chance of dealing with it first by experts, then by diplomatic and then, of course, by notifying the European Commission and then by bringing an action before the European Court of Justice. What does the supervision of the European Court of Justice mean for five years? This is the minimum duration of supervision of the Court of Justice for the entire contract. It would certainly be very advantageous to have such supervision all the time and always come: this treaty is violated, we are giving a decision to the European Court. I consider five years to be a compromise which, I think, will not endanger the interests of environmental protection of the Czech Republic, because part of the conditions that have already been fulfilled in the contract... long ago... recently, but the part is prepared so that within five years it will be fulfilled. It should be a natural wall, it should be a hydraulic barrier, definitely a whole system of monitoring wells and measuring stations. And over a period of five years, we should already have relevant information and, in fact, if we do not comply with this Treaty, or if we have sufficient evidence that it is further harmful to our environment, we can again turn to the Court of Justice for a solution, even after five and a half years, which are mentioned there as a minimum duration, the possibility to terminate this Treaty, and even if it occurs - hopefully not, but if we allow the Polish Party to terminate this Treaty after five and a half years, a lot of the articles of the Agreement remain in force throughout the mining period and, in some points, even five more years. I would like to stress this maybe a second time, but it is very important. [[12.10 hours]] Once again, I just have to underline that if there is real proof that the hydraulic wall is leaking, coal mining will stop in the direction of the Czech Republic. No Union law or international law can prove that Poland forbids coal mining altogether. In addition to all the environmental components that I have mentioned, which are covered in the contract - noise, air protection, groundwater, light pollution - we have one more condition, or in the contract there are conditions for measuring the decline in soil due to mining. This is also a very important item in the contract, which will be monitored properly, and we will pass on information and measurements within expert groups. In addition to the terms of technical and purely professional, which, as I say, did not suddenly arise now, secretly, the last month on which long work has been done, and the entire team that worked on it, thank you very much, are part of the agreement and the funding for the work of the expert group, which will manage the Small Projects Fund. It will be representatives of the municipalities, who will decide on the part of the Polish and Czech Republic, how to use the funds that the Czech and Polish parties will send there together in the amount of 250 000 euros. Assigned revenue will be used to provide additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. We want to support, and I hope that this will be the case, projects that will hold water in the landscape, greening here, planting trees, and so on to improve the landscape. I'm surprised to hear that the Jizera Mountains are about to be destroyed. I don't have that kind of information and it's not supported by anything. I was also very surprised that there are some studies that say how much Poland has actually caused damage to our territory. I don't know these studies, and I don't even know the height of CZK 2 billion that it should be. Whether it's too little or too much, I don't know how to judge either. What steps are we taking now after signing the agreement and are they really in close cooperation with both the Polish parties and us? We have an agent appointed. The executives are already preparing the negotiations and we will pick each other's noise measurement points, air pollution measurements, ground drop points, and above all, it is about building monitoring wells to measure the depths of groundwater. We will also transfer to each other all the hydrogeological data and information found so far related to the impact on groundwater in the areas concerned and the amount of water pumped in the Turów mine. The Ministry of Environment is already working on an internal plan where the duties will be divided both by agents and staff of professional organizations such as the Czech Geological Service, the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute, the Research Institute of Water Economics, so that we can properly cover all points of the contract and agreement and can control them and respond in time. The Polish side is already building two automatic stations in the northern and southern surroundings of the mine. These will focus on air quality. And everything will actually be with the agreement of the Czech party. The agreement also allows us to finally carry out a check directly in the mine itself. Perhaps again I would stress that the agreement is indeed the best solution for it if we want the environment to improve in this area. If we really want the destruction of the damage that has already been caused there by a hundred years of action and at least 40 years of serious intervention in the groundwater, then it is really the best solution, because we can now start working on repairing the damage and improving it. And we can also make sure that the Polish side does not exceed the obligations of the laws that result from it and the obligations that result from our agreement. Again, I would like to emphasise that the agreement is in line with all international and Union laws and is also in line with our Constitution and with our Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. There were also comments about the fact that the Polish authorities, namely the Polish court, are also on our side. The Polish court ruled in the case of a hearing by decision. But we don't know the outcome. This decision is not published to comment on exactly what it is about, but concerns the process of authorising the extension of mining until 2044. I suppose there's been another mistake in the impact assessment process. However, I must point out that there is another decision that is about permission for mining in Poland, and that is until 2026, which we originally attacked, but where Polák have already corrected procedural errors, so at least this decision is valid. And I assume that even the decision of the Polish court will be able to deal with mining organisations not in favour (?) Czech parties. I hope I have managed to disprove some of the concerns that the contract is invalid, disadvantageous, or that it sells our water to Polák. Again, I would like to stress that 90 per cent of the contract, perhaps 95 per cent of the contract did not really come about this year, but it is the result of the work of a team that I am not questioning. And I think that the compromises that have been accepted mean just a reduction of EUR 5 million, of course it is not a small amount, but it is nothing fatal. And changing the supervision of the European Court from ten to five years is a compromise, a good solution for us from our point of view. And we can manage within this duration of this contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u15	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. Vice-President Karel Havlíček is now in favour, and then Prime Minister Petr Fiala, followed by Minister Marian Jurečka. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, many have fallen here today. I won't talk long, but allow me to recap. Because I recently called the government a corporate government for the elites, so today I'd correct that it's the government of the property, its own goals. After we registered the fact that there was an effort to throw total entrepreneurs overboard, not to support them in the context of the covido programs, came another owner, which is energy non-support, which is aimed both at households and businesses. I'm just stressing the word "no support." Then the pandemic law followed, there were two of them, one of them from the Senate. And the last goal the government takes is Turów. And this isn't just about what happened here in terms of the notice period, we can discuss the depth of mining or the underground walls, but he's the devil's hidden in detail. And the Minister of the Environment, through Madam President, rightly said 90 percent of it is still from the original government. But it's the 10 or 5 percent that relate to that deadline, so that's one of the most decisive ones. Because the problem is far greater than that, and that's because he was negotiating in a special regime. Literally, and to the letter, it was a cover-up. Which I would understand if it were a threat to the security interests of the Czech Republic. But this was not a threat to security interests, this was something that not only the general part of the Czech Republic is watching, but especially the border section. And the openness, the transparency that is being discussed, as it seems, the opportunity to express itself, to create a team, to let the opposition express it, the more so, the fact that she was working on some of those parameters, I consider not only to be polite, but to be necessary. Not to mention that in Article 35 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, it clearly states that everyone has the right to a favourable environment. Perhaps here, too, just a reminder that we still do not have an agent or a human rights agent, that this might be better dealt with. I will conclude with what surprised me today, and that is the contribution on Mr. Tom Philipp's social network, which I otherwise appreciate, because I think that discussions with him are always correct. But let me quote: Are we going to be clowning in the House today or working? Talk about a friendly settlement with the Polák, or act and vote on our government's commitment to maximum political, economic and military support? - We understand about Ukraine, apparently. I therefore note that we have clearly defined ourselves with Russia not only yesterday but also this morning. We have clearly condemned aggression, but I do not know what is going on here in the House today, in the sense of voting a commitment to maximum political, economic support. Then let somebody open it. But I didn't notice anyone coming up with it. So I admit I don't understand it at all, and if it's meant to be, I suppose it'll pick up. Maybe the program will agree, and that's where it's gonna go. Although I don't know exactly how, what procedure. But that we would clown and chat here within Turów, when it is such an important agenda, such an important thing, which has also been closely followed here at international level, is in my opinion incredible words. And I am glad and thank the Minister of the Environment for not treating it as a joke or a joke. She, I say here, has tried to explain a number of things in substance for the longest of all speakers, for which I thank her. She didn't convince me, but it doesn't matter if she convinced me or if she didn't. The important thing is that he wants to discuss this on Parliament's floor, and I greatly appreciate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And now Prime Minister Petr Fiala will speak with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I will also briefly comment on the subject of the Turów mine and the treaties concluded. Let me just start by saying two things. One, that's a topic we could have had long ago, we didn't have to deal with here. It is a topic that we have inherited and that we had to deal with, and it is a topic that divides borders, disrupts good relations with Poland, but it is a topic that the government of Andrej Babiš could have solved long ago, and it had the support of the opposition. The fact that she didn't do it is just one of the other proofs of the rest and incompetence that we have witnessed and that remain behind this government. As Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Havlíček mentioned earlier, yes, compensation, compensation for entrepreneurs, which was prepared by our government and found funds for them. The previous government allocated zero Czech crowns for compensation in its draft budget. The effects of energy prices on people, energy poverty - we addressed them, we addressed them with concrete measures so that those who get into energy poverty know what to do and receive concrete help. Not across-the-board measures that help those who do not need it, but concrete aid for those who really get into energy poverty. We have also allocated funds in our budget that the previous government has not prepared there. We also have to deal with this, and we are doing this, by fighting the expensive, because the government in which the Vice Prime Minister was the current Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Havlíček, was unable to do anything about inflation and expensive, on the contrary, prepared a budget that would only increase the cost and inflation and would only make the situation worse. Then it is only to the brink of the speech of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. And since he's new to his job, I'll just remind him that if an emergency meeting is called, it's not possible to add program points, change the program. Unfortunately, we would like to do so and devote ourselves to Ukraine, but the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. It is only possible to approve the item, the programme as proposed by the meeting. That is why I spoke at the beginning of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, actually before approving the agenda of the meeting or not approving the agenda of the meeting, to inform both the Chamber of Deputies and the public about the current situation surrounding the Russian-Ukrainian crisis. And I have to say, and now I'm really positive, and I'm very happy that I appreciate the fact that there's a consensus across the political representation. I'm gonna go back to that thing that we're mainly meeting here today about, and that's the Turów deal. Unfortunately, apart from the citizens of the Liberec Region, most of the Czech society in the past only learned about the problems in two moments when there was a crisis or after the agreement was concluded. And by the time the problems turned out to be big, it was actually too late. By that time, the Czech Republic and Poland were already facing each other in court. And that's the thing, too, that the last government that's now wielding people's interests, and fighting for people in Liberec has done absolutely nothing. She let the situation go to a stage where the negotiations were already extremely difficult. Still, we decided to go on our way to find a deal. Agreements instead of disputes, negotiations instead of micromanagement, efforts for correct relations with neighbors instead of strong statements. And the difference here in the approach is the same as in the state budget. It is simply the difference between political responsibility and political populism. The aim of our government, as I have already said, was and unfortunately still to correct, as they say, the rest of the government of Andrej Babiš and find a solution. And this, if necessary, was about finding a solution that would protect the inhabitants of the Liberec Region. [[12.30 hours]] That is why the agreement, the final phase, was prepared in cooperation with the management of the Liberec Region. And also, as you may have noticed, Mr. Governor Půta signed this interstate agreement at the same time as we signed this interstate agreement, a part of it for the Liberec Region. This is also important in fact, because it shows that this agreement is really advantageous for the citizens of the Liberec Region, precisely for those affected by it, that they called for it and that they needed it. That's why it's a good thing our government closed it down. What's the big deal? First of all, it was the availability of drinking water for municipalities, the protection of people from noise, dust and other negative environmental phenomena, to achieve these objectives. And these are the goals that we are achieving in this agreement. Yes, negotiations were very hard, not only for what has been said, because the Polish side is a hard negotiator, but also because of how far it has unfortunately come and how difficult the question is. But we came to a solution within a few weeks because we didn't fit everything that was done before, and I admit it, so did Secretary Hubáčková, overboard, didn't say "you did it all wrong before us" as you do now. We took the whole negotiating team and we continued the negotiations, we just made it to the end where you couldn't. And we have come to a solution that, of course, is beneficial for both sides. How could it be any different? How do you want to make a deal that's 100: 0 for one side? We managed to achieve something that the previous government simply couldn't, even though it had all the conditions. Yeah, maybe the deal isn't as photogenic as some of the previous government's outputs. Photogenic may not be, but it is more necessary, it is more useful, it brings something and it is more useful for the citizens of our country. And that's what's important here. And the concluded agreement is advantageous for the Liberec Region, the Czech Republic, and it is advantageous because it brings enforceable guarantees, compensation and access to all relevant data relating to mining. And that's also important, and we shouldn't have that without this agreement. And here I want to thank Minister Hubáčková, who has done a great deal of work on this, but also those negotiating teams, lawyers, lawyers, experts not only from the Ministry of the Environment, but also from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other people who, under the direction of Minister Hubáčková, have come to the conclusion that we could sign the agreement. And I want to say again, enforceable guarantees, compensation, access to all relevant data, we just wouldn't have those if we hadn't concluded this agreement. And once all the measures resulting from this agreement are implemented, which is not now, it will be at some time, the impact of mining on the Czech territory will be significantly reduced. So it was, and it is, the conclusion of the agreement, the only way to achieve protection of the territory of the Czech Republic from the impacts of mining. And this is important, as Minister Hubáčková has already said: any judgment of the Court of Justice in our favour, which is not 100% certain, we do not know how it would have turned out, but even if it had been clearly in our favour, it would not have brought about the conclusion of a mine or compensation for municipalities on the Czech side of the border, nor the implementation of the measures brought by this treaty. And anyone who says the court can solve it doesn't tell people the truth. Let's tell people the truth. We can have different opinions about whether it's five or seven years, but let's tell people the truth and not tell them: the court would solve it. I didn't. The court would have called us right, but those people wouldn't have gotten anything out of it. And I don't think that's a responsible policy. There would be no reduction of negative impacts on groundwater or on air. We would not have guarantees and we would not have control instruments for what is happening in Polish territory. The agreement is simply more advantageous from every angle than the continuation of the dispute. Under the agreement there will be construction of an underground barrier, completion of the construction of a natural wall, compliance with the requirements for monitoring the impact of mining and the establishment of monitoring wells. And that's important, too. Without these measures, and this treaty contains, it will not be possible for the mine to approach the borders of the Czech Republic and continue to deepen, and there will also be a reduction in light pollution, which has been very difficult for local citizens and making their lives uncomfortable. And the deal's also thinking about the escalation mechanism. We're assuming that there may be some issues that need to be resolved, and the escalation mechanisms are here. For the duration of the agreement, the Czech Republic may refer again to the Court of Justice of the European Union. And the position of the Czech Republic in this case will be even more advantageous. That's just the way it is. It is not true that we cannot turn to the Court of Justice, we can. And, of course, we're going to have to do that if there are any problems that we all hope will not. So we have the fuse here, and the fuse is very strong. Most importantly, we have something in our hands that few people believed we could ever have, and that's that we have an enforceable international treaty here. And that is good for our interests, for the protection of the people of the border, for the protection of the environment, and that is why we have done our utmost by signing this treaty. And I'm sorry that he doesn't understand this, as it turns out in his speech, Mr. Former Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. He said here: we don't compromise, we can't compromise. But that's no way to negotiate anything. It's nice to look like a tough negotiator, but that doesn't have any results. You guys just left the citizens behind, and you just said, "We're tough, we're not gonna back down here, there's gonna be elections, there's gonna be elections, there's gonna be elections, there's gonna be a new government, there's gonna be a tough, clear, and there's gonna be principles. But that's no way to negotiate anything, of course. You didn't negotiate anything either, and you just let the citizens, as the people say, down the drain, just without a result. What is now is that thanks to the contract we have, apart from what I have said, also the possibility to demand and control the implementation of the measures, but the region has also won EUR 35 million, which will be used directly for the benefit of those affected localities and their citizens. Another EUR 10 million was received by the State to ensure long-term monitoring of the influence of the Turów mine. If we hadn't received these funds from the Polish side and we hadn't received them without a contract, we would have had to pay these costs from the state budget. The agreement also provides for the establishment of the Small Projects Fund in order to strengthen the environmental protection of the Czech and Polish Republic in the vicinity of the Turów mine. It will have an amount of approximately EUR 500,000 per year. And that's good news, too. We have simply found a mutually acceptable solution, and we will continue to work with our neighbours for several years. That's not bad. If you think of it as an example, such as your own housing, if you had a dispute with your neighbor, who built a well for example, you lose water in your own, it's not solvable much, the court can give you the truth or not give you the truth, but you come to an agreement, and the agreement will be that your neighbor will compensate you for your damage, he will take precautions not to lose the water, and you will agree together to fix the fence together. Well, that's a reasonable solution, isn't it? Better than saying no all the time, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[12.40 hours]] Let me conclude by saying that I'm not happy that we're dealing with Turów here today. And not because I think that contract has any weaknesses, but that there are some fundamental weaknesses that we can't talk about here. We can. But we wouldn't have to talk about it here if the previous government were able to bring it to an end if it had solved Turów last year and solved it so that the result would be good for the citizens of the Czech Republic. But it didn't! It didn't happen because you were simply using pressure methods, you were unable to reach an agreement, to come up with a solution. You've been adamant, all right, but you've achieved nothing. And all you did was sacrifice the citizens of the Liberec Region. That's just the result of your negotiation. And now instead, and that's the difference to say well, so the agreement has been negotiated, it's great, we're going to see if there's any problems there, and we're going to be a critical opposition in that sense, but it's a good thing that the Czech Republic has agreed with Poland and that we have brought something to the Czech citizens, so you are just criticizing everything. You criticize what you've actually negotiated and what you've been involved in. And by the way, this is the biggest difference between you and us. As a representative of the opposition, I have repeatedly communicated publicly and internally to Minister Brabco and the Prime Minister, if you sign an agreement with Poland, if you conclude this chapter, you will do something for the citizens, we will support it. We'll support it! You had this report, and Minister Brabec cannot deny it. You didn't do it anyway! But now that we've done what you haven't done, instead of saying God's will for you to unblock the situation and we have an agreement that does something for the citizens, it's just unnecessary and very weak, and places with the use of untruths and things that aren't even in the contract, and they don't really match the reality, so that's what you're criticizing from this point of view. So I can close it. The treaty had several goals and we fulfilled them. We protect citizens of the Czech Republic. It is a good solution for the Czech Republic. We pulled the boulder out of the Czech-Polish relations, which prevented further solutions to the issues and which prevented cooperation from developing as best as possible in all areas, and that is also important. We have concluded this contract in cooperation with the representation of the citizens of the Liberec Region. Thank you again for the leadership of the Liberec Region. It is and was the only way to achieve a guarantee for Czech citizens, how to achieve their protection, how to achieve guarantees for the future, how to see into the data, how to have monitoring, how to simply have on your side everything we need to be able to mitigate the impact of mining and to effectively protect Czech citizens. That is why it is a good contract, it is the art of possible and it is good that the Czech government has concluded it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now, with priority rights, Minister Marian Jurečka will speak. Vice-President Richard Brabec will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking the chair of the club of the ANO movement Alena Schillerová for her position and comments as well as the opinion of the member club of the ANO movement to Ukraine, for the clear position, for the condemnation of the steps taken by Russia, and for the words she said that she also supported the progress of the government coalition. I appreciate it, and thank you for that. In many ways, we disagree, but this was correct, it was appropriate, it was necessary. Unlike the silence of another part of the opposition spectrum. Now to the Turów mine. A lot has been said here, and I would just like to draw attention to a few of the moments that former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš mentioned here in particular, who has read some of his part of the text and left here, he is no longer here in this discussion, but it might actually be good to ask himself a question before the Member signs the call of this extraordinary meeting, and he is a Member who was the party that was the previous coalition party, so that he asks himself what was the aim of his previous government, the Prime Minister, the ministers of that government, what they actually wanted to achieve. Because there's been talk about it for months, it's been going on for months, and there wasn't really a result. And saying if something's good or a bad deal, there's no point, 'cause judging some deal and talking about it's good, it makes sense when the deal is really done. Saying "we wanted, we wanted something different," maybe it's really nice at first sight and maybe it's good for some people to hear, but we all know if we want to reach an agreement in life, whether in families, in business life, so I can say a deal that really makes two or more parties agree on. You didn't make a deal. You guys said you had some ideas about some specific numbers, values, but in the months you talked about it, you didn't really come close to any of the results. And this is where the time went, which complicated the situation and created less and less room to be willing to make a deal. And here, not from the Czech Republic, but from Poland. And you know that very well, because those legal opinions are very clear. They worked on this expert, both the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other experts involved, that we simply in a given situation, if we wanted to have an environment here, where we were able to create a network of monitoring points for both groundwater and air, so we needed to have some agreement. That's a good one. If we wanted to be able to protect our groundwater with the sealing wall, which we have the opportunity to influence so that it would really significantly reduce the loss of our groundwater in order to adapt and expand, we needed an agreement to do so. This too has come into the agreement, and it will be evaluated how this wall will be effective, and this wall is still being implemented, and it will appear. So to say that this particular wall is from here to here today, and it's not going to be constructed and technically modified, it's not true. That's what happened with the deal. We needed to reduce dust and other emissions, such as noise pollution, dust, but also light smog. That's part of the deal, too. Even here the Polish side will have to change and adjust these things as part of the protection of the health of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. It was also possible to agree on financial matters related to investments that the Czech Republic and the Liberec Region will be able to implement for the benefit of the citizens of the Liberec Region. There was the idea of EUR 40 million from Poland, the idea of the previous government was EUR 50 million. So if I'm looking for a compromise, I have to be able to make a compromise somewhere. And that result was a compromise of compromise negotiations and discussions that we had. It is still an amount exceeding one billion crowns, which is sufficient and covers for us to be technically able to make investments in water infrastructure within the part of the Liberec Region, where it will be necessary. So that's what this deal brought. This agreement, when it will not be implemented when this five-year period is over and can be extended, can adjust those parameters, I assume that good neighbours are interested in continuing the agreement, but that will be the question of another government, future governments, but if this did not happen and the agreement does not continue, then the possibilities remain open to return to the extreme solution - bringing the action. These are also open possibilities that no one denied to the Czech Republic. But there will be specific measuring points that will be able to monitor the development: a drop or increase in the level of groundwater, including pollution of the territory of the Czech Republic, for example by dust particles. These things would be very difficult to implement without the agreement. As well as concrete steps that mean limiting the process of mining in relation to the Czech territory, unless the measures we have discussed here are effective and meaningful, such as the sealing wall. These are all things that we don't judge, we just don't judge them. Within the framework of Union law, we would not have achieved these things. [[12.50 hours]] We need to tell these people that way. After all, I would have imagined the situation to be completely different, for example, to be dealt with 40 years ago, or 25 years ago, in order to avoid the extremely heated situation that has been here in the last two years or in recent months. But unfortunately, it didn't happen. But what we have now managed to sign is, in the end, an agreement that gives space to protect the interests of the Liberec Region, but above all the inhabitants of this part of the Liberec Region, their health, their environment and their availability to the source of drinking water. Those are things that even if we were to continue to judge beautifully, we wouldn't be able to sue them. This must also be said fairly openly. So I think it's good to talk about it, put us here and us here as the government of the debate, so that we can make a statement about these things. I think they were very clear here, both from the Prime Minister of this government and from the Minister of the Environment. [[arguments]] I understand that you may have reservations about this, but please, nicely, you need to say things and arguments truthfully. Do not bend them and also say what was reality and what could be actually negotiated. If it were so that it would be possible to negotiate other parameters, even better parameters for the Czech Republic, then I do not see why the previous government would not negotiate it. That could have been your success, you could have brought it back to the electoral time, and you could have said: we negotiated great terms. Then why didn't you? Now, after months of failure to find the agreement, we have tried to reach a compromise at least in this variant. But to say here that we've thrown someone overboard, that we've only taken money here, it's totally unfair, because we've clearly described where the specific guarantees that haven't been here so far, where the possibilities are both measuring indicators and concrete measures that lead to improving people's quality of life and accessing water supply and stopping the drop in the bottom water in this part of the Liberec Region. I think that has been said repeatedly and quite clearly. And, of course, we'll be watching it. It's not like there's a deal now, and there's not gonna be another evaluation in any way. Of course it will. The indicators will be monitored, we'll talk about it, there'll be more and more negotiations. But I think that the state that has been here in the last, say, two or three months has been a state that has long been unsustainable not only in the Czech-Polish relations, but also in the functioning of both our side and the Polish side. So much for commenting on this situation on my part. And maybe let me make one last remark. There was still criticism of the government's progress - said former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš - the government's progress and the way in which the treaty was concluded and the government's actions and the like. I think that every politician who has experienced international negotiations knows how difficult these things are. And sometimes it is necessary to be tactful, to give room to, for example, at the last, final negotiations, for example, those actors are still not bound by the fact that this is already being written in the media, and I think it has been created. The contract was properly discussed by the government both our and Polish, as well as the Council of the Liberec Region, but it was not published to make premieres, when they met over it, about the final act, so that they could say the result of the final negotiations and the agreement that reflected the original proposal which had been discussed and approved by both governments on the day before. But that's how it's done in international diplomacy that these cards don't show up ahead, they don't publish it, they don't leak it to the media, and that they're just the final representatives of those countries, or the final players of the negotiation process come along, and they're the result. After all, this is normal and common in diplomacy and politics at such a level. Tactically and strategically, it's right. There was no breach of any principle in terms of the process, but it was necessary to proceed in this way so that the agreement could be fulfilled. It was also at risk if one or the other party had published it 24 hours before the signature, so perhaps it could also happen that the signature could not be realized at all. Who has done with diplomacy at international level, who has ever been in those negotiations in the past, knows very well what I am talking about, understands and understands how sensitive and challenging it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, too, Minister. And now, Mr. Vice-President of the ANO Club, Richard Brabec, will perform. And I'm going to ask Vice President Havlíček if he could take my place at the speaker's desk for a while, respectively, here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u22	Well, thank you, so thank you again, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. My colleague Havlíček, it's not his fault, he didn't give it to me now, he'll probably give it to me later. But let me just briefly comment on what has been said here because I have also been addressed. First of all, thank you, Minister Hubáčková, I join in thanking you from Vice-President Havlíček, not as a cliché, but for a simple reason. We were worried or worried that the coalition was going to cut through the topic of letting us out here with our priority rights and not saying anything. And I'm glad to hear that. I have the advantage and the disadvantage that I've been at these meetings all along. So I know what they're playing for, I know what they're playing for. So I'd like to respond to the Prime Minister first, he's not here right now, but I think he's gonna hear it or play it later. Well, I have to say, he quite denied himself in the first sentence, I think in the first sentence, or the first sentences he said he denied himself because he said, well, what did your government actually do? You didn't do anything. And then he said, "Well, you prepared the contract." I mean, if Babišův hadn't acted, there wouldn't have been any lawsuit against the European Court of Justice, Poland wouldn't have paid 12 million crowns a day, and we wouldn't have pushed anyone at all. So where are we today? Of course, the government acted first of all diplomatically, after a diplomatic level. Again, it is no joy, nor was it for our government that we are suing Poland. It's a precedent, and we didn't want it. But we were forced to do so by the situation, when, unfortunately, diplomacy did not work, it did not take professional action - and I repeat, there have been almost a hundred years in the mine, and the problems have been there for decades. Minister Hubáčková rightly pointed out that in the 1980s there was even a drop of water by tens of meters in those well activities of the Turów mine, so it is not just some mathematical or hydrogeological model theoretical. That's reality. The mine's taking water. So, of course, our government has done a lot, and that's why we're right where we are today. I respectfully believe that we could have continued without concluding this agreement. So I absolutely have to say no to the fact that Babišův's government didn't do this. She did. And not only did she prepare a lot of technical details of the contract that you then took over. And I'm stressing that the deal itself, I'm also putting it before a court of law. We misunderstood this, I also prefer an agreement before a court, I just say that the agreement could have been more advantageous, far more advantageous for the Czech Republic. They say every fox praises its tail. And I'm just convinced that even the tail, as we see it now, is flattened. Now I don't really know if I should tell the coalition through Mr President that they have a snotty tail out of what they've prepared, but I think he can do it without the middlemanship. Because the coalition, yes, took over the version of the treaty that we've been in for months, the team has actually been alienating the technical details, but I just keep saying that in the absolute finals - and again I say, the treaty, or the decisions of the European Court of Justice, was expected to be wrong, sometime in April, maybe May. So now to say that the contract, the deal, sorry, had to sign the ausgerechnet on February 3rd, because there was a risk that the conditions would get worse when the European Court of Justice decided, it just isn't true. [[13.00 hours]] I repeat, we have negotiated a deal with Poland for a long time, and I have claimed it, and we have not agreed, we have not signed it simply because it was not in the form that we would be able to defend against the citizens of this country, including the Liberec Region. Again, the five-year notice was unacceptable to the representatives of the Liberec Region. Unacceptable. I've been to those meetings. And it was a meeting where there really were a few people from the Czech and Polish sides, and we said that five years is just not enough and we would never defend it. And now all of a sudden, the contract likes it. That means, you say compromise, and I say compromise, but in the interests of Poland, because if the mine continues for 22 years, then the compromise, if we talk arithmetically, may be somewhere at eleven, but it won't be for five years. And that's just the crucial thing. And the pressure on it... and just what Secretary Hubáčková said. You said, Madam Secretary, by your means, Mr President, that we did not play strong cards. Well, we did. They were still playing because the Polák, the pressure on them was huge, financial and political from that place. From their side, from their domestic political scene, from their media. We know that. We know how much it pushed Poland to come to an agreement in the end. So the Polák are tough, you're right. They pushed us, they made up mountains with hooves just in the way it would damage V4, and so on, and so on and so on. But we thought it was part of the negotiation. Like their pressure, when they can use anything. They're waiting for any weakness of the opponent and they're going to use it against them. They're excellent very tough negotiators. And I still insist that the new government has gone soft. The new Czech government has gone soft. And what we were unwilling to sign, you call it a compromise, and we call it that it simply does not protect the interests of Czech citizens to a sufficient extent, and that it could be negotiated better and that time was. If the trial were to be the second day or the third day, it would be something else. But until the European Court of Justice ruled, it was still two months and every day it cost the Polák CZK 12 million. They cost 12 million crowns every day. That means the interest was here. This means that they would have paid another 700 or 800 million crowns as a fine, as a penalty. That means, I'm convinced, I repeat, it was rash, it was too fast. If there were any others involved, I say, international contexts, I don't know, but it's nonsense to say that our government sacrificed citizens of the Liberec Region. That's what sacrificed them in the finals, 'cause when the decision was made, it was crucial. And I say again, I prefer the agreement, we preferred the agreement all the time and I would prefer it until now, that is, I would be in favour of the agreement, but I am convinced that the agreement, as it was concluded, is not in the final interest of the Czech Republic and the people of the Liberec Region, and unfortunately it will show up in a few years. Remember my words. But that's not some prophecy. That's just the reality of being at those meetings, and believe me, I wouldn't dare, I've known many of you here for a while, and I don't really use false arguments. I also know what that court decision would give us and not give us. I know that, of course. I know what we've been suing and what the finals would be. But it bothers me for a moment. And at that moment, that was in favour of the Czech Republic until the decision was made. But it wouldn't take two months to decide. And I believe that the enormous pressure that Prime Minister Morawiecki and his team have created on us, which we have not succumbed to, and you have criticized us for considering any compromises at all, many of you last year or in the last few months, you have criticized us very hard. I took it logically, again opposed to the government, so it is a paradox that the signed agreement ultimately has a minus sign for the Czech Republic. And if you say that you rolled off the boulder, yes, from the Czech-Polish relations, but the boulder may have rolled off the diplomatic plane, but we paid a very hard and very high price as the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u23	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Another is registered with priority right by Vice-President Kovářová, which is the last registered so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, what is really the agenda for this extraordinary meeting must be said. Regardless of the details, it is one of the unresolved problems of the previous government. On the other hand, it must be said that the previous government had a really difficult position on the issue of agreement with Poland, because the Polish party showed little willingness to take action on this matter. I'm sure it's considerably less than a friendly neighbor would look good on. But that's not so important anymore. The important thing is that we now have a contract on the table that arouses passion, dissatisfaction with someone, and others view it as a realistic result of the situation. Let's face it, no contract in a similar situation will arouse spontaneous enthusiasm. After all, many people would be found on our side, for which the only satisfactory result would be the immediate cessation of the mining of the surface mine and the operation of the power plant. Others would imagine disproportionately harder contractual conditions. But we should honestly say that there are also enough in our country who say, on the contrary, that we have no right to want Poland to restrict the activities that take place on its territory. And that sometimes in the future it can turn against us, even that is a relevant opinion and must be taken into account. The views on the question of the Turów mine are simply many and there is a solution... or there is no solution that will satisfy all. Not even a solution that would satisfy any significant majority. I do not want to judge whether the terms of the contract are excellent, good or bad. We have heard a number of speakers here. I want to mention two aspects that should not fit in. Firstly, I have no reason not to believe what the Governor of the Liberec Region Martin Půta says about the development of negotiations. I have no doubt that the treaty was ready before last year's parliamentary elections, but the government did not want to deal with it just before the vote, so it left it in the drawer as such a letter bomb to the government now. I don't have a reason why I wouldn't be with Martin, either. Půta did not believe that if the previous government had a greater willingness to bring the matter to an end, it was then possible to negotiate better conditions. The second aspect, which should not fit in, is the broader diplomatic context of the settlement of the dispute with Poland. There's a few of them. Perhaps the most significant is that there is an international situation at the moment, and we all know that it is not good at all. The escalation of Ukraine's crisis and occupation of part of Ukraine's territory by the Russian Federation are still threatening to turn into a war conflict, which will immediately affect us and Poland, and it is certainly better to go to this time with a clean table. Likewise, we should not forget the fact that the next months will be very crucial in setting up the future European Union energy policy. We have important interests in this matter and we need support, not conflicts with our neighbours. Similarly, during our Presidency, decisions will also come in a number of other issues relating to the common market and other aspects of the life of the European Union. Being leaders of these negotiations and organizers of decision-making processes, while at the same time having a part-war with a neighbor, Poland, would not be good at all. [[13.10 hours]] I'll mention one more aspect of the Turów contract. It's a question of control. The Czech party has gained extensive access to data on mining and the impact of mines on its surroundings. I consider that to be a material circumstance. Furthermore, there is five years of supervision of the European Court of Justice, which means until the mine has a mining permit. I assume that what happens after this date will become a matter of further negotiations. And since Martin Půta has been mentioned here several times, according to my information I have from him, self-government through the region has always been well informed about the events around the Turów mine. I also dare to quote a few sentences about this contract, as evaluated by Martin Půta, the Governor of the Liberec Region. I quote: For the first time now we have the opportunity to have control over the impact of mining on Czech territory, residents of Uhlé, Václavice, Oldřichova on Hranice and other municipalities. For the first time, we have the opportunity to make comments, which I firmly believe will be listened to by the Polish Party, and PGE has committed itself to addressing them. And for the first time, we have the opportunity to get real and up-to-date data on the impact of approaching mining on our territory and the quality of life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u25	I will interrupt you and apologize for that, but I will ask the House for peace. Please move your conversations especially from the right side of the hall, but also from the left, to the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u26	Thank you. I will continue by quoting Martin Půta to the Turów mine, the Governor of the Liberec Region: The agreement brought what the Czech Republic would probably never have achieved by suing the European Court of Justice. It has brought clear rules and tools to adhere to the rules and to enforce them quickly, as well as effectively. And that is what I think - says Martin Půta - is the most important thing for all residents in Hrádek and other affected municipalities. So many quotes from the Governor of the Liberec Region to the contract. Finally, let me say that virtually any contract can be said from some point of view that it could be better. I'm going to adjust my recent approach to President Zeman, and I'm going to say that even a trained foxterier can swear on a contract. But what is important is that the dispute with Poland was closed, it was closed correctly and in a way mutually acceptable. And it is up to us to carefully control everything and act forcefully in the event of non-compliance with the agreement. And that's the key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-22-ps2021-012-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, too. I don't see any of the other minutes logged on to the agenda. I will therefore call on Members of Parliament from the front so that we can vote because we will vote on the proposal for a programme. I'm picking up the check-out request. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will vote on the entire proposal for the 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing... The number of people present has stabilized. I'm opening the vote on the 12th session, and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 2, 148 Members and Members were enrolled, 69, 76, 3 abstained. The motion was denied. The agenda has therefore not been approved and I will end the 12th meeting with this and say goodbye to you. We will meet next week on Wednesday, when the adjourned meeting of the Chamber of Deputies continues. Have a nice day.
