ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u1	78. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended / House print 215/ - first reading We cut point one. 6., we will now continue the debate. This is Mrs. Ožanová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u2	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, dear ministers, dear colleagues, we have had a longer debate on this law yesterday. I'd take the liberty of piercing a problem that weighs on me as rapporteur, and that's... I cannot hear myself, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u3	Yeah, well, then we have to fix it. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. If the House calms down, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u4	...and that is an unlimited number of Deputys for me, in the linguine of the political deputys. I think that the petitioners should consider one important thing, and that should put a stop to it, because only when there is a deputy - he needs an apparatus, that has already been said, he needs an apparatus, a car with a driver, a secretary, that's all fine, here he thinks that political representation should really be represented, with this approach I have no problem at all, but what I do not like is the position of the plaintiffs to have a large representation, but that the committees should be attended by those who understand it. [[9.20 hours]] As I have said for a long time yesterday, it is quite - or a little - contrary to the constitution, because the Constitution says that, of course, a member of the government is represented by a deputy on parliamentary committees when there can be an unlimited number of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u5	Ladies and gentlemen of the left, please move your conversations to the lobby. That goes for sure... but I can see that there are no calls going on at the right, except for one exception at the moment. kolega, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u6	If I take it that way, there'll actually be plenty of deputies, but they should still represent them -- forgive me for the expression -- those who understand that really don't. The Constitution says the Deputy. So let's either change the terminology of the bill so that there are still a few specialised deputy ministers who could professionally support the proposals, because let's face it, not all the things that are presented to the committees and the House are political. Clean implementation cannot be considered a political matter entirely. I'll take it from a field I understand. I can't imagine that, for example, we would be dealing in detail here with the approval of the technical competence of the vehicles and that the relevant - forgive me - the Minister and the Deputy have such detailed expertise on vehicle exhausts, lights, deformation zones. That is why I believe that some of us still do not realize that this is not just about the political work at the Ministry, as has always been presented here yesterday - politics, politics, politics. But please, most of the ministry work is in accordance with the law, it is purely professional, officials must follow not the political will, but the law. There is an enormous number of administrative or criminal proceedings, appeals proceedings, and I do not need any policy to do this properly, for this I really need an official who understands this, knows decision-making practice, knows developments in the field. Moreover, the caselaw on such matters is inexorable. Please, I've worked as an officer with case law. I beg you, even in those municipalities, an official with an eighth grade must know the case-law and so on. Then what's the matter with the Ministry? That's where I expect the expertise to be much bigger. However, I will remind you of what is in the bill. Officials - or in the civil service, I apologize for using the term civil servant from the municipality - will have a simpler tender if they are placed from fifth to ninth grade. I don't have a problem with that. I took the liberty - then it was purely for the news report, now in the general debate: indeed, ladies and gentlemen, why could this ease not be in the law on officials, as well as for regional authorities, magistrates, communities of the first, second type? Why does a person who is in seventh, eighth grade have to go through a selection procedure, a committee of at least three people? Why won't an interview be enough? This is a thing that bothers me that there is no link with other regulations, because I really believe that when this bill was prepared, it was possible to do it really a little bit more generally. Do you know why a law on officials and the Civil Service Act should be built in principle? In principle, it should be similar in my opinion. I will, of course, still express myself as rapporteur with priority rights during the debate. In my own way, I wanted to recapitulate a little of my reservations about the bill in question, and I would like to give the floor to those who have duly signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u7	Thank you. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u8	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would certainly like to follow up on my performance yesterday. At the same time, I would like us to have a real discussion and some of the things that have already opened up here yesterday, whether or not the petitioners could react in any way. Marek Benda responded to one important thing yesterday, when I said that I really couldn't get into my head in quotation marks, why we had to have the European Commission's position in 2014, it was conditional that the Czech Republic, if it had not adopted the service law, could not draw large money under European funds, but we will now draw the European funds too! So I don't understand. Although yesterday Marek Benda, through Madam President, quoted here what the Secretary of State said, but I would like it to be verified in some way. I'm a little distrustful that there's something to be asked of us in 2014 and after a few years it wasn't like that again, I don't really want to believe it at all. But I understand you're probably based on what the Secretary of State said, but if it could be confirmed by anyone else in any way. Of course, I will not proceed in any way that I will be asking somewhere within the European institutions, I think that we are supposed to solve this here, but I think that this is the key thing, because if it were to happen that there would be a threat of drawing on European funds, I think that no one would be happy about it even in this difficult time. So that's the first thing. Second thing. Thank you very much, Mrs. Ožanová, for following up on what I opened here yesterday, that the depoliticisation of the state administration began with the Act on Officials before 2014. When someone was in a position to quote the Deputy Minister at the Ministry, at the individual central body of the state administration and other organizations, he was in a position under the Labour Code, which is why the Service Act was adopted. We have to say that if we change things, then we should change them under the Officials Act. Right now, I'd like to explain to everyone here what the amendment to the Service Act is all about. First of all, there will be cancellations by specialised deputys who will be political. You know that in the service law adopted in 2014, it was accepted that the experts who are subordinate to the Secretary of State will run the individual sections and manage the people. That's what it said that there could be two political deputys who don't drive anyone and are subordinate to the minister, okay? Even though the law was adopted in 2014, those political Deputys were already very negatively accepted there. It was said that a political deputy equals a newsstand, because a political deputy represents a minister, but he doesn't drive anybody. He can't run anyone because he's not in the position of service law. He says it's possible, but he can't drive anyone. The amendment practically now brings that we will have a minister, we will have countless political representatives. Professional Deputys will become section heads - that's what I said yesterday - so there will be a duplication. This means that the Minister will have countless political representatives who can represent him, but will not direct anyone. They're not gonna drive any section, they're not gonna answer for anything. The Minister will decide on them as political representatives, even in terms of remuneration. The Secretary of State will decide as part of the remuneration of the directors of the section who are professional. I can't quite imagine how this is going to work systemically. I just want to say that you all realize how many people it affects. The Civil Service Act affects about 65 000 people, because they are central government bodies and their subordinate authorities. [[9.30 hours]] Now, I'm going to tell you that you want to put on those posts in this proposal, that means section heads or, possibly, union directors, a term of five years, so the people who work at the employment offices today are incredibly overloaded, so you're going to tell them that after five years, they might lose the job. All I'm saying is, do you think these people are gonna be interested in applying to these competitions if they have a fixed period of time there? You do not want to think about this - and I will certainly be making an amendment on this - because if you say that you want a political level within political representatives, I do not think in any way that it should interfere with the professional one, that is, with the directors of the sections, with the union directors. It just has to be there for an indefinite period and it's not possible to limit the five-year deadline. Again, there are land offices, there are archives, 65,000 people. We're complaining that we have a shortage of good people, that they don't want to get in those places. Are you convinced that if there's a five-year term in place, there'll be an interest in those positions? You think this guy's gonna be in doubt, and it's practically gonna be that when the government changes in quotes, there's a new minister coming, new deputy, so it's clear that everyone's gonna feel that this guy can bring somebody in. So we say that we want to make a political and non-political level. If we want the non-political one, then the directors of the sections and the directors of the unions, we can't give them a period of five years, and if we do, then let's do it in the Officials Act. I hope I've explained this enough in some way, and I'd like you to really think about it. Of course, there will be room - second reading - to put amendments, but I think that the setting - and again I say that you want to make this more effective in the context of competitions to make it more flexible, to make it faster, with which I do not have the slightest problem, I think that everyone in quotation marks will appreciate it, and I can tell you that when I sat in the Ministry of the Interior on some things and just some steps, when I saw how many steps the Secretary of State had to take and how many papers he had to sign and write, I also wondered how many times why it was so administratively difficult and what army of people had to employ on those documents. I'd like to think with you how you want to set it up now. I am also sorry that the chairman of the club of the Czech Pirate Party is not here at this time. I'd still like to ask him too much, because he said here yesterday that the proposal was accepted by the Anti-corruption Organization of State Reconstruction. Well, if the anti-corruption organization agrees with this, I hope I don't think it's an anti-corruption organization anymore. And I would really like to see if he could bring it to me, if he could also bring it to me in black and white, or, if necessary, I would call on anti-corruption organizations to comment on this draft service law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u9	Thank you and now Minister Válek is with priority right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I certainly do not have the ambition to intervene in the expert debate, because the service law is a matter concerning lawyers, but with all due respect, by your means, I must refer myself to Mrs Vildumetzová's word of the trade. I have two political representatives at the Ministry of Health, I know no more hardworking people than Mr. Deputy Dvořáček and Deputy Minister Pavlovic. I would very much appreciate it if the members of the Health Committee confirmed this, and denied that in their case it is any newsroom, because they are really people who are there on Saturdays, Sundays, they are there on weekends, they are there on weekdays until evening, they are working intensively, and if I compare it with what was before, in one year of the professional vice-chairs there were five on the health section. I could name them: Professor Černý, Professor Šedo, former Dean of the 1st Medical Faculty, Professor Prymula, finally Professor Vašáková. I'm not questioning their expertise, but the fact that they were deputy professors doesn't mean they didn't take turns as apostles on an astronomical clock. Likewise, let us remember how quickly the chief hygienist took turns. Well, you couldn't even catch up on who the chief hygienist was, and they were the deputy professors. That means, from my point of view, it's not a word, it's a word, but it's a question of whether this guy is hardworking, if he really wants to do the job professionally, if he's into it. All I have appointed are professionals in their fields, Aleksi Šedo was an excellent dean, however, as Deputy Ministry of Health lasted quite a short time. Professor Vašáková is a top expert on pulmonary issues, but she has lasted a short time as deputy. Professor Prymula is certainly an expert, but also as an expert deputy, he lasted a short time. And I would really think that the key thing is for those undersecretaries to be those who work intensively, which is why a number of Deputys in the Ministry stayed and a number of Deputys in the Ministry left. At least for health care, there are incredibly hardworking experts, some union directors are top workers. And I'd like to say that on a specific case. In fact, I did not write a tender for the Deputy Minister for Health Affairs, who were those alternate professor Černý, Professor Prymula, Professor Šedo, Professor Vašáková, for the simple reason that this section is really a very specialized section with two sections. One section focuses on education and the other section deals with health issues, cooperation with regions, cooperation with health councils of regions - today at ten there will be a meeting with health councils of regions - and there are really practical issues. In the end, I have decided that both directors of the respective trade unions are far more important to the functioning of the activity than that of their own deputy. In fact, I can't really pick a high-quality deputy who would run both sections better than the union directors. That's why those union directors are going to the Minister's meetings, and I consider them to be absolutely essential co-workers, because one specializes with the entire team of their subordinates in education, and I've decided to ask the Dean's Association to choose from among themselves someone who will coordinate in cooperation with this education. Yes, if the Service Act passes, it will be a political deputy, because as the Dean's Association changes every four years, deans change and maybe even the President will change the one that represents them, because here I am primarily interested in the best cooperation in education, the Ministry, the Dean's Association and both of them. And here from the logic of things, it's better that the person is more the one that's been there for a while and alternates as trends change easily into education. On the other hand, the health section is a purely professionally administrative issue, very complicated, and here I completely agree with the example that has been made here, by your means, by the Member, who was the first to speak, that this is a matter for example, the establishment of certain legislation in the health sector and there really the Deputy, whether professional or political, will not help completely. That's where the minister has to step right into it. It's similar to some other activities. For this reason, I would really prefer that we discuss the quality of people, and I would like to say that both Mr. Deputy Dvořáček and Mr. Deputy Pavlovic are extremely, extremely capable experts who are engaged in full-time work, who are extremely intensive and who are members of the health committee, if any of them are here, will certainly confirm that. Yes, they are political representatives, but they are a huge asset to the Czech health services, to me and to the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, there are a huge number of extremely hardworking officials, and I will be happy to strengthen the position of union directors, because I consider them to be key workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u11	Thank you, Minister. Madam Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will respond to your speech, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u12	Thank you for the floor. I just want to explain. I said, Minister, that in 2014, when it was implemented into the Service Act that there could be two political representatives, that people were taking it and taking it, that it was the newsrooms, and few of the ministers occupied those political representatives, because the political deputy, and that remains, does not have to go through any selection procedure, has to have any expertise, does not have to drive, does not have to be responsible for anyone. [[9.40 hours]] You talked about the quality of people, but the quality of people is that they go through the selection process, that they have expertise. If I take - and I don't want to touch you in any way - you have two political deputies. One political deputy is from our region, Mr Pavlovic, and as I have information, he has no education in health care, he was an assistant to Mr. Třešňák for the Czech Pirate Party and he was a photographer. Well, I don't know, and he's a political deputy at the Department of Health today. That's exactly what shouldn't be. And you're talking about the quality of people, yes, but even the quality of people must be in deputy positions when they're the most important people who are the minister's right hand. And that's why they put it to the level of the vice-president that they had to have expertise, they had to be qualified, they had to go through the selection process. So it's just my reaction to your performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u13	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President, and Mrs Balaštíková has now signed up with fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u14	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Vildumetzová partially answered me, but I wanted to ask you, Minister, that when you said they were there on Saturdays, Sundays and still working, what are their original professions, please? Because I wanted to know what such a political deputy could be working on. I mean, we can't think that maybe the photographer can be very hardworking, but he can't learn any of the things that doctors need. So I don't know, I want to ask what their professions are and what they're doing there, specifically. He's a political deputy, and I find he's not even educated in the field. What on earth is she doing there on Saturdays and Sundays and all week?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u15	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, then the Minister and then Mr Žáček, is signed up with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u16	I would also like to respond to the Minister. Saying that this isn't happening in your ministry, that's nice, but you can guarantee what's going on in all the other ministries? How does it end up with the ministries, the officials who are there, how does it end up on the edge? But we're still talking about ministries and we're talking about regions. Where is the delegation? But every ministry has a union of state administration performance. And this way I could go on and on and on and there will also be this change. And I ask: Is this change happening because it is necessary or because it is necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u17	Thank you. Minister Válek will now speak with the facts. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I would ask again any member of the Health Committee, from the opposition, if they object to my deputy, to Mr Pavlovic, if they feel that the Health Committee is working badly, if they feel that they are having a bad run of the Smart Quarantine, no matter what they say to the microphone here, let them take the courage. I find it really, really smiling when people who have no idea what Deputy Pavlovic is doing criticize him. And I am fascinated by the fact that they are people from the parties, when Minister Vojtěch was a professional deputy - not a professional, but a political deputy - Mr. Deputy Vrubel, a lobbyist for the pharmaceutical industry, and members of the health committee who resented it criticized that. The Deputy Professor - not the Deputy Professor, but the Political Deputy - was Dr. Šteflová, who was then fired by the next minister as political, accepted another, then became head of the health department. I was the one who defended her expertise here, in front of fellow members of the ANO movement. My friends, I'm trying to be fair, so please don't insult my deputy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u19	děkovat you, Minister, and now Mr. Žáček is in writing. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u20	Thank you for the floor. I do not need to be as correct as the Minister, and I will therefore say one practice that was here during the reign of Andrej Babiš, which many of us know about, which was related to professional deputy ministers, that is, the non-political ones who were not subject to political influences and which the Prime Minister managed so that when he had his government called for six o'clock in the morning, at eleven o'clock, at eleven o'clock in the afternoon, without their ministers, even from a second coalition entity, they knew, he ordered how to redo the materials to deliver the materials and finish them overnight until six o'clock. So if this isn't a political abuse of the Prime Minister's position and if this isn't the political management of the Vice-Presidents, I don't know what, so let's talk about this practice that was here under Babišův's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. She will now respond with the factual remark made by Mrs Balaštíková, then by the Vice-President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u22	Hello again. I am sorry, but through Madam President, Minister, I certainly did not insult anyone, but I wanted to ask what these people are doing from Monday to Sunday when they spend their days there, as you said, how they are particularly hardworking, and I wanted to know what their professional background is, so they are working on it. Because I would understand that the political deputy doesn't have to go there at all if he doesn't drive anything. And, colleague, if you're driving someone... [[Member Žáček from the point of view: Through Madam President.]] ... and you will tell him that he will - I would still like to respond to my colleague Žáček - that he should prepare the materials, through Madam President - please apologize - that the materials are to be prepared by morning - you know, I am used to everyone doing that when needed. And it's always been important to me if whoever wants me to do it is willing to work overnight and do something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u23	Thank you. She will now speak with the actual Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to say to the Minister of Health that in no way would I dare offend anyone within the framework of a political deputy. Indeed, the political deputy is only in your decision-making power, you choose him. I only, Minister of Health, responded to the distinction when you said that expertise was important, and I actually wanted to show that there is virtually no need for anything at all for a political deputy, because a political deputy only chooses a minister. He's not going through any selections, he's not subject to anyone, he's not driving anyone, he's only responsible to the minister. To this day, there could only be two political deputys, and you want countless of them now. So you, for example, when the service bill is passed, you won't have two, but you'll have seven. Yes, they will fall under you, they won't drive anyone, and the deputy professors who go through the selection process must be qualified, have a higher education, have to be in the field, manage people, have expertise and are under the authority of the Secretary of State. So I'm trying to explain it somehow. It's about you, and it's clear that it's probably because you've chosen political deputies that need some kind of political agreement. But that's why we keep saying that we need to depolitize the state administration, what we wanted in 2014, 2015, when we passed the service law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u25	Thank you. Mrs Peštová will now speak with the facts, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u26	I would like to respond to Mr Žáček, through Madam President. I've never met it in my life, Mr. Ambassador. I've been a deputy professor for eight years, and I haven't met the Prime Minister to do my homework. And I'm kind of wondering, how do you know that information when you were in opposition at the time? Does that mean you had direct contact with the Deputys? Would you mind telling me what kind of information the deputy professors gave you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u27	Thank you. He will now speak with the factual President Schillerová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Peštová took it away from me, Mr President Žáček, through the Vice-President. You're talking about something you haven't been to. You weren't part of the government, you weren't with those things, which means you were collecting from the hallway gossip somewhere. And I admit, our government acted every day. There's been a severe health crisis, there's been a severe economic crisis. Our government acted on Saturday, Sunday when needed, and even in the Ministry of Finance officials - experts prepared the documents overnight and I was there with them: moratorium, compensation bonus, things we had never done before. It's been such a long time, it's been a long time. We couldn't afford that luxury once a week, and it certainly wouldn't be right. But now I'm gonna talk to a resort I know - the Treasury Department. There is now a situation that the Financial Administration does not have a CEO for several months. This means that the Financial Administration, which has 16 000 officials who are involved in a number of things, will now participate in the 500 000 contribution, as I have read, does not have the Director-General. The Financial Analysis Office, which today freezes and participates in the freezing of Russian oligarchs linked to Putinův's regime, has no director. Doesn't that bother you as head of the Security Committee? That's what I'm asking. And now he doesn't have the Director-General or the Customs Administration, so that's from this week. That means, I'm asking, what is the Minister of Finance waiting for? For what? When this novel is here, so he can put in who he wants? Does that mean politicizing these absolutely apolitical authorities of the state administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u29	Mr Žáček will now make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u30	Of course, I'd be happy to answer. Yes, I'm glad I wasn't part of your Babišův government, I'm definitely, I'm stressing it twice, and I'll stress it any time you wake me up at midnight. But this practice was here. How could I have known? Maybe the deputy told me. There was a wall under your government, and the information couldn't come out? Maybe he was wondering. It wasn't a D.O.D. practice. They're talking to each other, too. It wasn't like they wanted to rush some practice. I'm saying, it was behind the Minister's back, this particular one, I suppose, others. And for me, it was breaking in, political breaking in. And as Mr. Babiš said, he's running the state as a company for the vice-president, and, please, the technical deputy, if that's what they admitted, if they either didn't protest or resign, they should resign today. And the law also deals with these Deputys, which you politicized, or your Prime Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u31	Thank you. Mr Philipp will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are talking about things that are simply very clear. I, too, have been an expert deputy for four years, fired me, through Madam President, Babiš, because I am KDU, and everyone for KDU had to be fired, deputy ministers from all ministries. We must realise that the politicalization is precisely that, for example, the Prime Minister is tasking his unsubs. But he doesn't just do them. The Prime Minister at the time, the former Prime Minister, went and tasked anyone - the director of hospitals, the director of businesses. Who he met, he gave him an assignment, contrary to anything. And then the poor man dealt with the terrain because he wanted to comply with the Prime Minister, after all, he's the Prime Minister. On the other hand, there are some rules, some laws. I've witnessed it several times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u33	Thank you. Mrs Peštová will speak with a point of fact and Vice-President Havlíček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u34	I'd like to respond to both my previous speakers. If these are tasks of the nature of strategies... Yesterday you explained to me here that the Ministry and the political objectives must be met, and that is why we are doing the service law because we are trying to move it in this direction. So if they're political in nature, that means, I say, a form of strategy, implementation, waste management plans, which are state strategies, I understand that. But I asked you a different question. If they were the deputy professors, like I had, that means they had the state administration, so I asked if that's what happened? And if this has happened, how can the Member know? I didn't interfere with any of the files myself, and that we were also in administrative proceedings, and I never did. And if you have something on me, you can file a criminal report on me. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u35	Thank you. Mr Havlíček, Vice-President, will now make a point of fact and prepare Mr Svoboda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u36	Hello. As for the Deputys, if I just take it to my resorts, I didn't even know who was behind what party or what minister took him there. The only criterion - the only - was human performance, human quality. And I also kept a whole range of people who were still there from previous governments because I thought these people were good. No one's ever interfered with me before. As to whether or not the Prime Minister was tasking people as deputy ministers, I was at the time of the covid, because that was probably what the Prime Minister was talking about, in particular, at all the government's meetings. Yes, there was an extraordinary situation in which some of the Deputy Ministers, for example, took part in the government's meeting. I dare say that in the hundreds of governments that were going on, and sometimes every other day, he sat there and sat there sometimes all day. It's never been like that, and there's a record that the Prime Minister would eventually say. You're gonna do it one way or another. It was always about the government having to agree on it. This was voted and subsequently received by the Minister, or his deputy, the task of processing it, and even until the second day. Yes, you're right about one thing. We finished at 10:00, 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. it had to be processed. The deputy was sitting there, he got the assignment, but he got it when the whole government agreed to it. And if you have any proof that this was going on differently, without agreeing to the government, please say so. There is nothing easier than to say: that was then and then it happened and that was decided by him and the one without the Minister's knowledge or without the government's knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u37	Thank you. Mr Svoboda will speak with a point of fact and Mr Philipp will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I really feel like I'm in a psychedelic dream. What is said here is such a collection of nonsense that I, which in politics works in a communal plane, in a central plane, am really surprised. And I think, fortunately, there is a film Sure, Minister, Sure, Prime Minister, where these things are presented in some form that is understandable and, in a way, cheerful. Discussing whether someone is a political deputy or a professional deputy is a disguise of the fact that the relevant minister decides on all the Deputys. Tell me when you say you had a lot of people who had nothing to do with YES, it was probably just you, because you weren't a member of YES, if I'm not mistaken, at the time. But otherwise, all the people who are there are, in a way, tied to the minister and the political party he represents. What's said here is all nonsense, one nicer than the other to show people how beautiful it was, but it doesn't solve the situation that we're in. And I can comment on health care and say that if anyone is working, they are political representatives of the Minister of Health. But the word "political" is not a word of defamation. It just says the guy's tied up with the minister, it's public. But that the deputy professor is tied up with him, no one talks about it, even though they were created in the same way as the deputy political.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Philipp will now speak with a point of fact, and Mr Bělobrádek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u40	Let's do it again. There's been a talk here about no one getting fired who doesn't have enough quality. My example is pretty simple. [[10.00 hours]] I worked at the Ministry for four years, I went there... [[President Schiller says nine years.]] In the pre-past government. I've worked there for four years, and I've been at least two or maybe even three, but I think in two evaluations, he's considered a well-respected expert. This is the highest award you can get there in the hierarchy of awards. I was fired, it was very jittery because it had to be done through a rather drastic reorganization. I signed up for the tender that I won - it was cancelled. I already applied out of spite for the second tender, and I won it again - the second one was chosen. Are you going to tell me something about it not being politically addressed? Don't make fun of me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u41	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek will now speak with a factual remark, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u42	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, of course, so remember how it was, for example, the representatives who were expert and were fired were several. They sued, some still sued, as far as I know. It is a rather sad matter and it is also a question of Mr. Ondřej Závodský, whistleblower, awarded as a fighter against corruption, and was thrown out for personal reasons apparently, I don't know if political. He was the nominee for us, although he wasn't a member. There are many such cases. Those people sued, sometimes the courts have won. What Tom Philipp is saying here is absolutely true, because it was normally fired because someone was behind a party, and he was an expert deputy. I don't know what you're playing at, you're hypocrites.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u43	Thank you. Mr Nacher will now make a point of fact, and Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to go to this point, I'm not an expert on this, but somehow it didn't leave me calm. Sure, Minister - maybe some colleagues, look at him. You really have an incredible double standard. When you're in opposition, you're stressing depoliticalism, and there's the subject, the term political deputy, he was such a whip - an expert deputy, a political deputy, so there were one or two political deputy ministers at those ministries. Now there's a change going on here that actually de facto political deputy - I don't think it's bad either, but that's what you guys did last time. So now everyone's gonna be there, and the only argument I've listened to, heard thoroughly, and I haven't reported in yet is that the former Prime Minister called a deputy. That's really an argument like a foot, so don't be mad at me. So, in fact, in short, to make people understand, you're going to trade specialized Deputys for political deputies. I don't consider it a defensive word, but that's what the previous opposition has created here, especially the pirát, who feel that all politicians are also non-professionals. We're having this debate in Prague too, I hope the professor will confirm that. And the only argument I heard was that the Prime Minister called a deputy - in other words, so that means that he's a political deputy. That seems like a really weak argument to me about the level of change you're making here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Peštová will now speak with a point of fact, and Mrs Ožanová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u46	I would like to respond to Mr Bělobrádek, which means, of course, what I wanted to respond to was said, but I left the factual one to respond to Mr Bělobrádek. I am no hypocrite, Mr Whitebread, through Madam President. When I joined the ministry, of course, I went through the selection process. I've already told my erudition here, but it's pointless. I didn't fire anyone. And there are people who choose -- there's democracy -- no matter who they choose, I just really wanted performances, nothing else, just work, and that's the way it's supposed to be. I mean, you guys are calling for how many officials there are, how slow everything is, and it takes 30 days to do 60 days. So the order was introduced there, I can't say. And when I left - on the contrary, I begged every person not to leave, because the state of the administration is not easy, because when you look at the starting salaries that they also have, just under the service law, you can give them a personal evaluation after half a year, you can't get anybody in Prague for 23,000 gross. So, on the contrary, I begged everyone not to leave, to stay there, and I tried to motivate them. And I think I didn't do my job wrong. You can go to the ministry and ask if I was unfair or if I deliberately fired someone, bullied them, bullied them for having some other political mindset than I do. I don't give a damn about it. It's not part of the state administration. That doesn't belong there! And that is what may bothers me about you or Mr Michálek, by way of Madam President, even though it does not sit here right now, which first draws on me that I am a member of the YES movement. Who cares who I'm a member! [[In an elevated voice.]] If anyone is to control me and someone is to say and point out my flaws, then let them say that I did my job wrong. Yes, that's the right criticism. [[Time.]] But not if I'm... [[President: Time, Madame.]] ...or I'm not a member of a group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u47	I also thank you for keeping up the time, Mrs Ožanová will take action, Vice-President Havlíček will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u48	Thank you. Madam President, I will stick to my tone, I suppose - I hope - material. I would like to look back on what the Professor Svoboda said, through Madam President. You know, not all really qualified deputys are political. We can look at various ministries, and there are really people who have worked on those ministries from scratch, they are not members of any political party, they get into a position of really professional deputy and they work because they do purely professional work, regardless of whether Petr or Pavel is there - but forgive me, that's the way it should be. For professional work relating to technical data and such things, this is really the case. And that's what I've been pointing out is that it's necessary to make a little distinction when I'm going under the administrative code, the criminal code, that these people just follow the law and not the political assignment. I have also taken the liberty to draw attention to one thing that I would recommend a reduction in the number of new Deputys, because let's face it, the current government also says that it wants to save, but the enormous economic demands on how many of these Deputys are going to be, and let's not say that if you give, say, three, that the next party will not give ten political Deputys. I remember in the past period when a member of the current government coalition walked around a ministry looking to see who got fired, where someone that he would be a minister there. Fortunately, thank you for not becoming the minister there, that there was a member of another party by a minister I respect, but that's just the way it was - he came to the minister and watched where he would sit! [[In an elevated voice.]] It really was like this. Please, maybe it would be appropriate - I want to appeal to it - let's try to get back to the Civil Service Act, we obviously have different opinions about this... [[President: Time, Madame.]] I'll express myself later as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u49	Thank you for the time being, and now Vice-President Havlíček will take action, Mr Feranec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u50	Thank you. I think it's slipping into a purely personal plane, and that's a mistake. It's not like today we're wondering whether Anička or Toníček was a better minister or a better minister. Now I don't want to touch anyone, I said the names of my children. [[Fun in the hall.]] And undoubtedly, it's also about the fact that the system of specialized deputys can be abused, that's true, and it can be used in a variety of ways. But we're talking about the system in general, and it's clear that if the current system allows for two political vice-chairs and the rest of the sectional, professional deputy, there's less room for friends, acquaintances and politicizing. That is quite clear at first glance, because it is not so easy to replace that sectional deputy today, and if we assume that there is a person there who is an expert, then it is at least partially more certain. I'm not saying it can't be done in the end by some kind of systematic process, of course, but it's more complicated than that. And the only question is whether it's right that anybody out there is going to nanominate any political deputy in any number. That's the whole discussion that's about it. I didn't have a single political deputy in two departments. I didn't want them, I did it with the experts, and I'm saying again, from some 90% I inherited them, and they were good people, good people. For transport, these are people who were there for fifteen, ten years, they were there for various ministers and I appreciated working with them as well as at the Ministry of Industry. [[10.10 hours]] But the result today is that three ministers and six political deputy ministers took over my agenda. Again, I didn't have either, which means it's nine people to one. I'm not saying that now with respect to performance, I'm just saying that new people came in, and that doesn't seem completely normal to me. And that's what we're in now, when it's only possible with two. Now, take it when it's a free field, a neoran field, when I can put anybody in it. [[Time!]] Then it won't be one in nine, but one in fifty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u51	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Feranec will now speak with a factual remark, Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to what Mr Philipp and Mr Bělobrádek said. Paradoxically in your speech, you were making arguments against the amendment to the Service Act. I'll explain. You said cases where during the service law period through systematics, a very complex process and so on, the Deputy Head of the Section could be called off, so to speak exactly, yes. What's the novel about? It's about the fact that all of the department heads will be overcompetitored, all of them, which means how many people it is - about a hundred people in the order, I mean from the ministries, union directors, I'd say 200, 250, but everyone. That means, you draw attention to individual cases, that's what happened from your point of view, but you're going to allow these cases to be repeated in hundreds. All I'm saying is that your argument is actually against the amendment to the Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Svoboda will now make a point of fact. He'll perform with a de facto... you're logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u54	I'm gonna try to simplify this one more time. The debate that is here is not a discussion of political representatives. This is a discussion about the fact that all ministries will occupy the people who are cooperating with the relevant minister. It's always been here. Then a version of some definites was created, and the fact that we're talking about it now is probably because you really care about keeping those who are there. And I say one thing: the concept of a political deputy does not exist! There's just a concept of a deputy who's on some kind of function that gives him some sort of decision-making authority at the Ministry. Then there are ordinary officials, and they're easier, they do what the Deputys and the Minister tell them, and they don't care if it's left-wing or right-wing, they're good officials and they can do it. And here we're fighting over something that doesn't exist. The term political deputy is artificial, because the Deputy Deputy is the one who is able to manage the Ministry in some form in cooperation with the Minister. And what do I name him? I'd call them slave deputy politicians instead of politicians. It doesn't matter, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u55	Thank you. Mr Bělobrádek will now speak with a point of fact, Mr Žáček will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u56	Thank you for the floor. By your means, to Mrs Peštová - I didn't talk about you at all, you're completely out of my depth, so you don't have to be upset because I really didn't talk about you, and as Deputy, I don't really care about you at all. I'm talking about ministers, because ministers decide who is and who is not their deputy, so your irritating reaction was more like an expression of some kind of personality of your founding. So I've talked about ministers and their professional deputys being fired, taken away, sued, sometimes won by courts and so on. That means there really wasn't any talk about you, that's a completely different story.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u57	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Volný is signed in, Mr Brabec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I'm a little sorry that most of the discussion here about the political representatives and the influence of political parties on the ministries shrunk into the Ministry of Health, when the honourable colleague Svoboda here, as well as Mr Philipp, claimed that he was fired by Babiš or Philipp. Mr. Svoboda here, of course, is right. I just want to say, please, there have been many ministers at the Ministry of Health. I'm not saying that Prime Minister Babiš had a happy hand in this, but neither one was political, neither was a member of YES! So if Philipp's colleague was fired by a minister, he was a non-scorer. We put a deputy in there, and you know it was Professor Pepík Wiped out, and that was capacity, and it wasn't a member of the party. So let's not play around with the way we put it... How many times have I been involved in the discussion, when our doctors, our professors, members of the Yes and members of the House said, "Why don't you put someone from our midst, Prime Minister?" I mean, we have the same expertise as the people you put on the outside. And he said, no, I don't want politicians there, I don't want members of YES, I want experts there who have nothing to do with politics! So what are you throwing at the former Prime Minister for firing the deputy for firing Mr. Philipp?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u59	Thank you. The last one, with a factual remark, is Mr Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, fellow Members, Minister, because it is now after these factual comments, it is a question of whether I would even get to what I wanted to say. But since my colleague Bělobrádek said about the hypocrites, which kind of upset me, let's talk about what it's about, and I'm starting to follow up on what's already been done here. I didn't have a single political deputy, I did it with the Vice-Secretary, and I had one advisor for part of my mandate, and then no advisor. Today, when I look at the new ministries within the coalition, of course, those advisors are growing in a geometrical line, I think they may already have advisors and deputys. And speaking of hypocrisy, let's just tell each other what it's about. Well, we've cut off the sables, and of course you miss the titties today, because there's not enough tatties, but there's a lot of them, so you need more titties to suck in. That's what this is about! That means, that's the one -- I'm going back to what happened here yesterday about depoliticization, it's just this is going to be a politicization. I agree with what Mr. Svoboda said about the Deputys. I also came to the resort and I really put my deputy there, but he gave by making a tender. And none of the deputies, and Berenika Peštová talked about it, got there because of her political affiliation, let's say, but because he had expertise. My colleague Peštová had a degree, she had a lot of practice back then, and that was actually the only one who was directly connected to the YES. That means that's what happened. But again, it's not about that, I'm convinced, because it's not just about the Deputys - it's about creating other places, creating titties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u61	Thank you, too. She will now come forward with a proper application by Mrs Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u62	I have a request, Madam President, that I have also spoken to my colleagues - we would now prefer Mr Benda so that we can respond to him, because of course we see that there are a lot of people registered, and my colleagues agree with that, so if this is an option, we would be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u63	Yes, thank you for this arrangement. If Mr Benda and Mr Benda agree to this, please have the floor, and please delete President Benda from the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u64	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to try to calm this down a little bit, because we have come to such a very personal debate, who are you to whom, and yet it is still a law amendment, so we should know that these are things that are going in some way in the future. [[10.20 hours]] Yes, the concept with which the legislators come is different from the current concept, that is clear. We have been coming up with this concept since the beginning of the Civil Service Act negotiations since 2014 and we say: the Ministry's leadership is political, is imposed by the Minister and coming with him, we are competing for this in the elections, we are competing for this in front of voters who are telling us: We are going to choose the YES movement, or we are going to select the ODS, or we are going to select the SPD, or we are going to select STAN to go like this, and then there comes a group that politically manages the resort. What is and is to be depolitized is the performance of the state administration. There it is clear that it must be, and these are the demands that the European Commission has on us. The exercise of state administration must be depoliticized and therefore we have the Civil Service Act, which is why the head of state services remains at individual offices, individual ministries who decide who is being adopted there, and this sphere is truly depoliticized. A note that surprises me about how many former ministers, deputies, who have been telling me all sorts of things, what will the political deputy do there? According to Section 84 of the Civil Service Act, the Deputy Member of the Government may impose duties, manage and control their performance. He doesn't drive on a staff basis, but he can do his duty, manage and control their performance, so let's not pretend that these deputy officers are completely useless there. So far, the division has been completely artificial, said the professor of Svoboda here. We just have a deputy member of the government who was sometimes assigned to run the section, sometimes he wasn't. We want to separate this, we do not set the number of deputys, we find it pointless to establish this in the Civil Service Act, especially in the Civil Service Act, they are constitutional actors from this point of view, not actors under the Civil Service Act, or only to some limited extent and limited parts are under the Civil Service Act, otherwise they are based on the Constitution and that the Deputy may represent the Minister. And it will be, yes, the responsibility of which minister, how many Deputys he'll have there. It was mentioned here again - I experienced the Ministry of Defence in your time, which had nine Deputys, all of whom pretended to be professional, but there were nine. There's never been a resort under my government with nine deputies. Well, that's the first point about the Deputys. Yes, we're coming up with the thesis - the minister of the election competition, he's supposed to come to the resort after the election, he's supposed to come up with his team, and he's supposed to run the resort politically. What is to be depolitized is the performance of the state administration. The second thing I think it is important to say, I mentioned it here yesterday, it is mostly the answer of my colleague Vildumetzová, but also of others. Since 2020, there is no need for the European Commission to approve changes, the three principles - professionalisation, depoliticisation and stabilisation - to be followed. All three principles are maintained in the amendment to the Civil Service Act, with the fact that the Deputys are the level of administration of the Ministry that comes and goes with the Minister. At the level of state administration, and, of course, public money management, stability, depoliticisation and professionalism remain in terms of the European Union. We can argue about whether regular announcements and recompetitive executives are right or wrong. Personally, I am deeply convinced that it is, and that it leads to increased performance, that these people are subject to competition. I would just point out that the limited term of office of the highest administrative positions in Europe has fifteen states, and only for a certain period it has five other states. It is quite common, absolutely common in the countries of the European Union, that these positions compete and that once in a while - just as we defend every once in a while - just as school directors defend as they defend the Presidents of the Courts, we could calculate x of such categories - every once in a while they go through competition and go through whether or not there is a... Third point. There's been a lot of talk here about the Officials Act, if it's not to be copied in any way. I am willing to open the debate with the opposition, which may have more experience than I have with the Officials Act, because I have never been a municipal or regional representative, and I am not hiding it, but I don't think it belongs to the Civil Service Act, and we can have fun that the principles that are reflected here can also be reflected in the Officials Act. For example, the fifth to ninth grade, that really selects the leader, seems like a perfectly reasonable measure, to compete in these high school positions and to play in the tender, really seems to me to be completely pointless. I don't know if there's anything else that I have in mind -- just that I don't want to say the final word, because I'm gonna keep it to a conclusion -- but I wanted to be able to respond to what I'm saying in the debate. I think everyone here finally complimented the simplifications. And the fact that there is a further opening of competitions, that they are to be shortened and that longer practice is to be recognised is the absolute logic of this company's development, where we see that eight-year periods of changing individual political Garnitures are. If someone puts in those eight years that they have to have a proven practice in eight years, then what happens is that then all I have left is... I really don't see why, when I was in the government ten years ago, I suddenly have to pretend that I was never there and that I never sat there. It is done frankly with all the professions I know, that if I'm to prove any practice, I'm proving it for life, not in recent years. It's done with trade licenses, with everything I can imagine, so here the restriction really doesn't seem reasonable, and I think it's right that if this guy has something in his life, he's proven it in his whole life, not in the last defined period. So much for my reaction to what was said in the debate, and I hope I reacted so that I wouldn't offend anyone and pick up anybody, I'm not trying to bring in the personal fights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Now with the de facto Mrs Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say one unusual word in the House - I thank the plaintiff of the law that he is concerned with the fact that we could also link some simplification principles to the law on officials. And I'd just like to remind you that there's one more principle that he mentioned at the end, and that's to prove to the executives where they worked in leadership and the like, there's eight years there, so that would be good just to gain weight. However, thank you for listening to the rapporteur's views, and I think that we have put it back into the debate and in the tone that this debate has and is dignified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u67	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Peštová has now duly applied and Mrs Válková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u68	So I will return it to the technical section, or yesterday I was thinking about a lot of things here and another thing that I thought about after Mr Michálek, through Madam President, told me that the author or creator of this amendment of the law was the Ministry of the Interior, so I was still wondering why the Ministry of the Interior didn't complete the legislative process - because the Gesturer is the Ministry of the Interior, it is his law, why didn't it complete the process according to the legislative rules, which, of course, was also called here yesterday? [[10.30 hours]] And, of course, when I looked into the legislative rules in more detail and looked into the first part, Art. 2 which are, in fact, general requirements for the creation of legislation, where paragraph 2 is applicable. 1 writes: '"The preparation of each legislation must be preceded by a detailed analysis of the legal and factual situation. It also includes an assessment of the need for a change in the legal situation, and, if certain relationships are not yet regulated by law, an assessment of the need to extend legal regulation to such relationships, including an assessment of the impact of the envisaged change in the legal state or the impact of legal regulation to be extended to legal relations not yet governed by law. This evaluation shall be carried out in accordance with the guidelines' and so on and so forth. And then it hit me because, in its nature, The Ministry of the Interior not only needs to prepare a explanatory report, a presentation report, but it needs to prepare an impact study, the so-called RIA. And that's a study that should say how much it's going to cost, how much it's going to cost to separate the state administration, and it's going to create political representatives, and it's going to actually show how much money it's going to cost taxpayers. And that would put us in that beautiful propeller, when in the last parliamentary term, the entire opposition, today's ruling coalition, attacked us for how many officials we recruited, how many officials were recruited into the state administration. And this would show how many other civil servants will be burdened by the state administration, even if they are political representatives, they will not have the competences mentioned here - Mr Michálek's health, through Mr President, is certainly going to be reported - so we would actually suddenly have the funds covered, and that would probably not be a happy thing! So I believe that someone will join the debate and maybe tell me why this impact study has not been processed. And another thing that I am terribly sorry that today and yesterday does not sit here as a gesture of this law, that is, the Minister or Vice Prime Minister Austrian, the Minister of the Interior, whose law is being amended, is not even the Prime Minister. A law that is important to all ministries and does not sit here except for the Minister of Culture, through Madam President, not one minister. What's that? The ministers don't care? They're gonna revolutionize their ministries, and they're not here? Not one but the Minister of Culture? Not that I want to insult the Ministry of Culture, no way, but I think ministers should sit here. I remember the flaming talk in the past parliamentary periods, when it was called on here: As possible, you bring up laws and don't sit here ministers, we interrupt the meeting until the Minister of the Interior arrives, because it is his law and it is in his gesture! I'm not going to do it, but you should think deeply about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. We will continue to discuss this point, and Vice-President Kovářová reports with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond, through Mr President, to Mrs Peštová. At the beginning of your performance, you said that you were returning the matter and your appearance to a material level. I'll just tell you what's going on with the ministers. Mr. Vice Prime Minister is interested in this law, but he is duly excused. If you would listen at the beginning of the meeting, through Mr President, he is on a foreign journey. The other ministers, I don't know exactly how it is there, but for work reasons in this serious situation, they are making arrangements for our countries to deal with the energy crisis and to correct the mistakes of the previous government!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u71	I have two reactions here in the form of factual remarks. Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak first, then Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will speak first. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u72	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. Thank you for the tour. In any case, if they're doing more important things than the law of the service, why are we dealing with it here? [[very loud:]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u73	I'm just gonna ask you to treat the voice more gently. [[Fun.]] And now, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u74	Thank you. Madam President, I will listen to you, I will be gentler than my colleague, I will speak interestingly. The law was submitted 13. 5. 2022. The government has given a favourable opinion on him for 18 years. 5. 2022 and already 1. 6. 2022, that is yesterday, we began to discuss the law. It's not usual, this haste. This is the speedy negotiation of laws in a legislative emergency, and I am merely responding, through Mr President, to Vice-President Kovářová - so why is this being discussed so quickly? There was nothing to prevent those involved from having a chance to be here, and he didn't have to push this bill so fast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u75	Thank you. One more factual point from Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u76	I'm sorry, Mr. Benda, I apologize to everyone for my sounder voice. I get carried away sometimes. It's my fault, I'm sorry, I'm repenting. I'll try, but I can't. It can't be done. I just want to say, if, of course, I screamed a little bit into that microphone more like an exclamation, why is this law being negotiated if it's not so important? So why aren't we discussing the laws you say our ministers are dealing with? It bothers me, too, and I would like to discuss a law that concerns energy, and I would like us to move forward here in some way and help our citizens. We've been calling for it all along. We've been calling for this the whole time! Let's talk about this. Let's deal with fuel increases, let's deal with energy, let's deal with gas! Our ministers are handling this, so why aren't we dealing with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u77	Thank you, too. Now I'm going to read the tickets that have arrived. On 2. 6. on account of a foreign business trip, Ms. Anna Hubáčková apologizes, then on 2. 6. For health reasons, Mr Karel Smetana apologizes and, further, between 17 and 32 he apologizes for working reasons today Mr Drahoslav Ryba. We will continue with the general debate in which I register two applications. Mrs Helena Válková will be the first to speak and Mr Jan Berki will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u78	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I have one great advantage that I have listened carefully to the debate, so I am not limited by two minutes, but I will try to manage my speech within five minutes, because I will respond to what has been said here. I would just like to say, in general, that it is in the response and response of Mr Benda, by your means, Mr Vice-President, that the so-called poodle core is expressed, because he said here what I wanted to draw attention to as colleagues and colleagues who were here before me. Yes, it's a different concept. I was marked here: yes, this is a system reform with everything that goes with it. I can also afford to say this because I was in the role of the Minister of Justice for less than a year and a half at the time when she was preparing to depolitize the performance of the administration, and I remember very well - at that time she was not yet a Member of Mrs Valachová for social democracy - as the social democracy that she had in mind and as a task - such a major one was her flagship - to prepare the depoliticisation of the performance of the state administration by preparing the Civil Service Act. We then corrected it and it was clear at that time that the procedural aspects were not drawn up and that they would bureaucratise the entire management in practice, and that is why I will now commend one thing - I welcome the discourse through simplification of procedural rules. [[10.40 hours]] However, I think that this law, if it does not return to the petitioners yet to the adjustment, will definitely require fundamental and I am afraid of complex amendments that would eliminate its current shortcomings, although I repeatedly claim that legislation at the Ministry of the Interior is one of the best departmental legislation, yet I think that colleagues here have made some mistakes. That was exactly about half an hour of interpretation, so now, within five minutes, I would just like to point out that I fear that the principle that my previous speaker, Mr Benda, also spoke of, is not going to stand, even if stabilisation is based on the comparison of other foreign legislation, in the current concept of the five years, as formulated there. So I'm pointing out here that we could really get into the undesirable viewfinder of European institutions. And I also allow myself to contradict the claim that the reconstruction of the state, which I have also worked with many times, sometimes voluntarily, sometimes more or less forcefully, would approve this proposal in this form, and I think that it will still be heard, the lawyers that it has at its disposal will use and we will get their opinion. So I would like to point out that, in this regard too, there is a mature proposed amendment to an adjustment that should eliminate this deficiency. Another moment that I see as very controversial - it is about mass recompetitive, which, of course - there were even numbers in thousands or hundreds of thousands depending on the functions - will be about civil servants who are very fond and experienced - and with that I have my sad experience, I lost the dispute at the time - are taking advantage of the lawsuits and are seeking the annulment of such proceedings and decisions. The amendment, in my opinion, is an invitation to these proceedings. So in this form, colleagues and colleagues, and now across the political spectrum, I recommend that the amendment be reworked in the framework of the amendments or returned to the petitioner. Yes, I see I've slowly exhausted my time. So there are more of these shortcomings, from the detailed ones across the basic ones, and I believe that, in this form, we are putting ourselves in a position both at European and domestic level, in terms of the likelihood of bringing actions - not to mention the constitutional level, where there will certainly be lots that could then be called into question by the action, and apparently the Constitutional Court has taken a position that would not be very helpful. But here, unlike the two previous critical comments, I think it is not my place to evaluate any possible results of the Constitutional Court's decision-making. So for all these reasons that I've been trying to draw attention to, and I don't have the space here right now to take them apart in more detail, I think that-- originally, I was thinking of rejecting them. After the debate that has taken place here, and while respecting the distribution of political forces after the parliamentary elections, I will not propose rejection, but I will join in and vote in favour of returning the petitioner to work. And if this amendment goes through the first reading, I will definitely participate in the amendments that will move it to a plane that would not be as controversial as I have outlined here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u79	Thank you, Madame. I note that you are joining the motion to return this press. Mr. Jan Berki will be next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am always glad when the discussion returns to the material side. Thank you for having us here yesterday in my opinion quite fair discussion, although President Benda did not like that in factual remarks. I'll try to sum up some things. The challenge of the opposition is, without a doubt, to draw attention to the risks posed by changes in laws. However, I believe that it is always necessary to show them in a context and in a balanced manner that I will say some of the excesses with how this ends with the whole state's governance, I find it a bit excessive. I'm gonna try to look at two things that have been discussed a lot. One is a limited period, or a term of office for managers. Undoubtedly, the risk is that it can reduce the number of applicants who will be willing to report to such a place because of some uncertainty. On the other hand, we have to say that in the system of terms of office, it is always balanced by some benefits from that place. At the same time, however, the term of office certainly has its advantages. For example, it's the motivation of the executive to be the best to keep working on himself. But it also provides motivation for others to grow so that they can replace it in a positive sense. I will use some of the analogys outside the Ministry, although I am aware that the situations are not exactly the same, and why I will mention them is that, despite the risks that the term of office carries, they use them. At the same time, one more thing: after the end of the term of office, the person does not lose his job, but usually stays in the institution. A colleague named Benda mentioned the principal at primary schools, where it was six years with the possibility of extension. At the same time, for example, in higher education there may even be a tender for a fixed period, there is an exception to the Labour Code. Selection procedures are also regularly carried out for senior staff at universities. In the judicial system we know this institute, in the system of prosecutors we know this institute, which means it is not an institute that is clearly negative. The second thing that is being discussed here is a mixed model of the exercise of public power, but we know it from other levels by analogy, from cities and regions, where the regional authority, as well as from the municipal authority, is delegated competence and self-government. The mayor or mayor is in charge of the office, he has his deputy or councillors appointed by individual authorities, who also do not have direct decision-making authority over individual unions, and yet we use this principle because they are meant to bring political ideas and ideas there. The only difference between the Ministry and the municipality and the region, as you mentioned yesterday, is that it is elected directly from the congregation, but this does not apply to the Minister - nor does the Minister need to be a member of the Chamber of Deputies. So I still don't understand why it bothers us so much when we both know these models and they're functional. And at the same time, Chairman Benda asked me not to come here, so I will now become a moment of his mouth. I suggest we shorten the negotiation period by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u81	Thank you. A 30-day cutback, that is, 30-day cutback. I'm registering a proposal. And now with priority rights, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u82	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank Marek Benda for the debate in question, for the answers to our questions, and I would like to sum up some way for the YES movement. [[10.50 hours]] We believe that the European Commission's consent to the amendment to the Civil Service Act is necessary. We believe that this requires a favourable opinion from anti-corruption organisations, both for discussion, how the Civil Service Act is currently being discussed and with content. At the same time, in connection with what has been said here under the Act on Officials, which was the first stage of depoliticizing the state administration, we believe that the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, the Association of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities should comment on this. What we don't like about this proposal is that the vice-president is canceled, the political vice-president is that the structure is changing, that it's going to double. And what I'm saying is, today at the Ministry, we have a deputy and we have a department director. We'll have a new deputy, a section director and a department director to make everyone realize that. At the same time, we are talking about the future of 65,000 people who are now working in central government bodies. They're people in hygiene, they're people in labor offices and other land offices. So what I'd like to say is that there's been no discussion about it, and it didn't go through a proper commentary procedure. I am sorry that, for example, the Minister of Legislation was not here right now, I would also like to make his statement. And I would like to emphasise, for the YES movement, the proposal to revise this proposal, where there would be a debate where there would be a proper legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u83	Thank you, too. With Mrs Schillerová's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Very briefly. We've all heard the debate, lots of questions, little answers. I propose an extension of the deadline to 90 days for club YES, because I think that this parliamentary proposal requires a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u85	Thank you. I've registered your proposal. I don't see anyone else reporting to the debate. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if the rapporteur wants to speak for the plaintiff or the rapporteur? The rapporteur, please, to the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I'll just sum it up, the debate was long. We have three procedural proposals here. The first was - said yesterday - a proposal for a return to work. Two other proposals have been made today to shorten the deadline for 30 days and to extend the deadline for 90 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u87	Thank you. Before we vote, I'm going to sign you all out first and ask you to sign up with your cards because I've recorded a request for your check-out. We will therefore continue now and I will put to the vote on individual proposals. First of all, I will put to the vote on the proposal to refer the proposal to the applicant for completion, because this proposal was made 1. 6., first from Mrs Dostálová and then other Members joined in support of this proposal. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of us returning this proposal to a recast? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 37, 145 Members and Members registered, for proposal 66, against 78. This proposal was rejected. Since this proposal has been rejected, we will consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First of all, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee, with the organizational committee proposing to order the proposed proposal to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I can't see, in which case I'll vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the proposal put forward be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 38, 150 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 150, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask, are there any other suggestions on the commandment of the committee or committees for discussion? Please, rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u88	Thank you. I will fulfil my wishes, it will not be an economic committee, but nevertheless a committee on regional governance and public development. I think this material really has something to do with it, and it's completely legitimate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u89	Thank you. Is there another suggestion? I can't see, in which case I'll vote. Who is in favour of this press being directed to the Committee on Regional Governance and Public Development? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 39, 152 Members of Parliament, in favour of proposal 69, against 11. This proposal was rejected. I note that no other committee has been ordered to discuss this press. In addition, two proposals were made for an extension and a reduction in the time limit for discussion. I shall therefore first vote on who agrees that the time limit for the hearing should be extended to 90 days. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 40, 152 Members are registered, for proposal 69, against 79. This proposal has not been agreed with. I will now vote on a shortening of the deadline. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the deadline for the discussion of this press be reduced by 30 days, i.e. 30 days? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 41, 152 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 81, against 67. I note that this proposal has been adopted, and we have reduced the time limit for discussion to 30 days. Given the fact that we have voted on all the proposals that have been made in the debate, I am ending the debate on this point. I'll read an apology. Today, between 12 and 13, for reasons of work, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová apologizes. I would like to agree, colleagues, whether you will agree with the following procedure, that at 11 o'clock we have a firm government bill, a so-called energy package, if you would agree to interrupt the negotiations for four minutes, so that I do not open another point and interrupt it at a stage essentially without saying the words - Minister, do you want me to open your point at this point? [[He's turning to the Treasury Secretary.]] We've got three minutes, we've got another point fixed at 11 o'clock. So we wait until 11:00, and then I'll start the fixed point. I'm interrupting the meeting for three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I am following up, as I have announced, on the further discussion of paragraph 2. Before discussing this government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the so-called Energy Act, as amended, and Act No. 382/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House press 225, shortened negotiations, we would in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I open the debate and ask if anyone wants to speak on this proposal? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I will make a very brief statement on the energy law. ANO, she gave him support. It is a very quick amendment that should support some of the issues we have encountered in the previous period. For me, the adjustment of the supplier's last instance mode is a very important matter, with the customer who was in this mode today having to ask for a transfer to another supplier. In case he didn't do it, he was disconnected from electrical power. This law allows automatic transition to a normal standard tariff. There are some amendments, regulation of the powers of the Energy Regulatory Authority. However, this energy law, or this amendment, does not include all things, but I was assured yesterday by the Minister that a new amendment is being prepared, which will be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies within a month for the promise that both coalition and opposition Members will participate in the preparation of this amendment, so that we will support him for the Yes Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-002-078.u92	Thank you, I'm not registering any more applications. In that case, I shall conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I'll call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies states that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, and Act No. 382/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House press 225, in a shortened hearing." I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to proceed in the short-term negotiations? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 42, 153 Members and Members, for proposal 127, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved. So now I'm opening up a point.
