ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of COVID-19 disease and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court, published under No. 4/2022 Coll., and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the disease epidemic COVID-19 /house print 127/2/ - rejected by the Senate We have interrupted the discussion of this point after the end of the debate and the final words on 17 February of this year, with the fact that we have determined that the bill will be voted on Friday, 18 February, today, at 13 o'clock. I recall that the resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press number 127/3. I ask that Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek and Senator Jan Holásek take the position at the rapporteur's table, but I have a report that the senators apologize for today's meeting, so I will ask the Minister to sit behind the rapporteur's desk. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. So it is necessary... and please set the necessary number of votes and the kvora. I will now read the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of COVID-19 and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended by the Constitutional Court's findings published under No. 4/2022 Coll., and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, according to House Press 127/2." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? To press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? He got held up? In the 91 vote, 187 Members were voted in, 104 voted in favour, 82, 1 abstained. The law has been passed. I note that the bill was adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. The President of Okamura shall apply with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u2	I would like to say that, of course, by declaring it harshly here, with the help of violating the House's Rules of Procedure Act, the SPD's fight, of course, the SPD's political struggle for freedom and democracy does not end. We are already preparing a constitutional complaint against this otherwise-named emergency situation, the so-called pandemic law. We are preparing this constitutional complaint in three levels. Firstly, because you pushed through the law in a legislative emergency, and here I quote from the House's Rules of Procedure Act, under which conditions the law can be enforced in a legislative emergency. I quote: 'Law in a legislative emergency can only be discussed in the event' - I quote - 'of exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage'. Neither of these parameters meets the pandemic law. True, he fulfils them, but in the opposite sense than what is meant here, that you are really endangering the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, but in a very different meaning than what is mentioned here in the law. The other plane is also the unconstitutional nature of your pandemic law, because, for example, you are restricting the right to business, which is the constitution of the right, and you are simply limiting it here, and other rights, such as the right to education, the right not to restrict citizens to private and social life, so you are limiting it here by ordinary law. And it is not true that this pandemic law has already been judged by the Constitutional Court. Those are your lies you're telling in the media somewhere, but he's been judging the current pandemic law, not your new one. This new one of yours was adopted today, now, at this moment, when you bent the Rules of Procedure Act and made us silent and limited here, you want to have authority now and you will have it if it is not abolished by the Constitutional Court, restricting other rights of citizens. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Can I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u3	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, I understand. Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to keep your voice down, the level of noise is too high to allow the speaker to speak. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, please keep the room down so that President Okamura can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u4	As far as the third level is concerned, it is that you have made your point, they have voted here with the help of violating the House's Rules of Procedure Act - and so it is a coincidence that at that time, the Vice-President of the House, Jan Skopeček of the ODS, was also in charge of the meeting - he had to vote on a procedural motion in the middle of the speech, in the middle of my speech, with the absence of the Minister - at least one minister from your government. However, the interruption based on the fact that your minister is not here does not start the end of the speech, and I was supposed to get the word continuously after your minister returned, which means I should not have been interrupted at all in that speech and I had the right to speak further, and as you know, so that is probably all the lawyers who commented on it in the media, so that is a violation of the law. The second violation of the law that you, Vice-President Skopečka, made through you, was your procedural proposal for voting after 21st and later hours, since it was not presented by the representative of the submitters on the microphone, but only by the President. Furthermore, the violation of the law was, and again the lawyers agree, that the vote on the extension of the meeting can only be submitted within 19 hours, see Section 53 (1) of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on Rules of Procedure. I would like to warn you, Mr President, that if the Constitutional Court confirms this, you will have to serve as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies because you have broken the law. That means, I would strongly ask you then that anyone who violates the law in the leadership of the House and gives us the courts in a partial way for the truth, so that means for you the composition, departure from the post of Vice-President or President of the House. I just want to stress this so that you can weigh these undemocratic practices of yours. And why am I talking about it being undemocratic? I won't talk much longer, because now our constitutional lawsuit is about to start, but I would like to end up here quoting the sitting Prime Minister Petr Fiala right behind me. The Prime Minister says he can't hear me, but he can hear me, we know that. Prime Minister Fiala said, when we were here for two days completely legit, and we announced in advance that we would be building a pandemic law - because we are fighting for freedom and democracy, you are opposed to freedom and democracy for citizens - so, Prime Minister, you have indicated that democracy is not a monologue. But I dare to quote what you said in 2016, Prime Minister, at that time you were the chairman of the ODS, you were also today, but you were in opposition, and as an opposition leader when you then blocked the EET, you said this, and I quote Petr Fiala: "Mensina also has rights, and democracy is based on that, not on the principle of majority law. And that minority can sometimes also use the above-standard instruments that belong to democracy, and they are obstructions." End of quote by Petr Fiala. And you said that in connection with the fact that you've been building an EET here for 236 days. We spent two days, two days and two days, and you spent 236 days. [[13.10 hours]] And now you have begun, just as your government does, to divide citizens into worse and better, to those who are right and wrong. This is your government that divides society. You've completely changed 180 degrees from being intoxicated by the arrogance of power, and now you're dividing obstruction into the right ones and the wrong ones, Prime Minister. This means your obstruction of 236 days - yes, even the SPD disagreed with the introduction of the EET, that is clear because we advocated, eventually also pushed after discussion with the then government, flat-rate tax for businessmen, taxes are payable, but in other ways and do not burden businessmen, we want to help businessmen - so your 236 days were the right obstructions, but our two days, namely two plus two days, when I add up the first negotiations before returning from the Senate, are bad for you. So that's the democratic, pseudo-democratic face of this government in quotes today. And again, I know what the atmosphere of opposition is like here. You guys want to shut us up, so we don't go to work at all. Yes, Mr. Excellent of KDU-ČSL now nodded. Yes, it is, but I'm not surprised by him, because I've already said here that they are the most radical, activist, hateful Members. That means you want to shut us up. You'd like the opposition to be just puppets. You'd like to, I think, take the voting cards. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] But I would like to warn you, Prime Minister, that we also have our political agenda, just as you had it in opposition, and we were also in opposition during the last parliamentary term. We have our electoral agenda, and our electorate does not agree with restricting the rights and freedoms of citizens or by means of this pandemic law. You have your program, i.e. I honestly don't know what it is, because we are still waiting for you to finally solve the price increase - all countries, as well as Slovák, have already put electricity prices on the table for up to 2024 for three years, will save Slovak citizens almost a CZK 30 billion, because they have put energy prices on the table. Polák, Slovák - sorry, Maďar - there they are doing zero VAT on basic food again, they have put fuel prices, mortgage rates to help people. And I am still waiting for you - we are the last countries in the Central European region, in the V4 that have done absolutely nothing for the citizens. And I know, of course, that if you start thinking of something now, yes, it will be because of the pressure of the SPD, and we know that, because we've been waiting for a few months since you've had the government majority here, and you could've made it with the MP's proposals. You promised that by the end of December, you would submit proposals to resolve the auction, and you literally submitted nothing. There is no proposal to help most citizens of the Czech Republic. Now, if you present anything, it'll be like anything else that's here. We've reminded you of this, we're pushing you, we're putting a lot of social pressure on you to finally get a move on, and any solution you can bring about will be the SPD, because we finally got you moving here. For us, I must say that the invisible Prime Minister, I would say, hasn't had the Czech Republic here since 1989. It's sad, it's so, it's sad that it's just when there's a big crisis, people get expensive electricity bills, and people are really desperate for overpriced food. And I call you to a solution. The SPD here has presented a number of solutions precisely in line with what the Polák, Maďar, Slovák suggest, so I hope that you will choose some of these solutions, and then you will not pass them off as yours, but at least thank the SPD that we discussed you here a little bit and that you will perhaps come up with some solution thanks to the SPD. So we're gonna keep fighting for regular decent people here, and I hope your government finally starts working for them, too, and not just for their personal interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u5	Beautiful afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I have replaced. Vice-President of the House Jan Skopeček came forward with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, through Madam President, I would like to respond to President Okamura. I believe that I have never broken the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in the previous days. [[Booing in SPD benches.]] I have the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree with a number of fellow Members of the Chamber of Deputies. On the contrary, I think that who was here in breach of the Rules of Procedure was Mr Tomio Okamura, who, through his obstructive speeches, wanted to prevent democratic debate in the Chamber of Deputies by not allowing a coalitionist or an opposition Member to sign up for the agenda at all. I'm convinced I didn't break anything, and I just wanted to say it this way to make it sound. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u7	Thank you. Whoever else applies with priority rights is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u8	Thank you. Good afternoon, I just want to respond briefly to people who are watching what Tomio Okamura said earlier to clarify two things. First of all, this week Tomio Okamura was given an extra night from Tuesday to Wednesday to be able to surround here, thanks to the extension of the vote that extended the negotiations after 21.00, he could debate until midnight and after midnight, so it has no logic at all in saying that someone here had shortened his time for comment, on the contrary that time was given to him on that Tuesday Wednesday night. That's the first point. But the second one, the more fundamental one, and now I turn to President Okamura, is: we have been here in the House for as long as both of us, there are memorials who have been here longer than we have, in this House, but it never happened, never to allow obstruction to be directed to the part where the agenda of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is approved. This has never happened here, which you have historically broken for the first time in thirty years, and this does not belong to the democratic debate and instruments that opposition has at its disposal in the House. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] So compare things that are comparable. If you really were to talk to the press about it and talk about it day, two, three, it's the plane of obstruction that is put into the democratic parliamentary system by our Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u9	Minister, I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall. Who doesn't care about the discussions here in the House, to move them into the lobby, can continue the discussions there. I'm begging you. Hold on, Minister, I'm sure we can all keep our voices down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u10	This is due to the Rules of Procedure and it is then up to the finest of Members and Clubs to take advantage of it. But you spent over 30 hours obsessing at the point where the House meeting schedule was approved. That's what wasn't here, that's what it really doesn't belong to the rules and some even unwritten fair rules and the way the House is supposed to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u11	Thank you. Mr Michálek, a Member of Parliament, has claimed another priority right. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u12	Thanks for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that some would like to discuss the budget, and I agree with that, on the other hand, I think it is important not to go beyond the silence of what we have witnessed here, because it is a source of insecurity and doubt in society. And it's better to address it now than to have it somehow keyed in our company. First of all, there is no new pandemic law, we are discussing a change in the already valid and effective law. This change aims to bring the law into line with what the courts are telling us, so that we continue to protect the rights of our citizens, to protect our health and to protect ourselves from the risks that may come. I must stand up for Vice-President Skopeček that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, there has been no reduction in any of the Members' ability to express themselves, which is a fundamental difference compared to how Members' rights have been dealt with in previous parliamentary periods. Obstruction can be tolerated to a reasonable extent, but they too have limits. As they say in Plzeň, "let's go." [[Screams of laughter.]] Mr Okamura, when he spoke, his speech was interrupted and then returned to him after the break, he had the opportunity to continue to speak, but at the same time a procedural proposal was tabled and the President had to vote on it without debate. It would be illogical for the President to continue to speak to the Member, whose aim was not to express himself in the debate, but to specifically prevent other Members from expressing themselves on the matter of the day in question and from making any proposal at all to the procedural nature of the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations. Untrue, and constitutional lawyers have confirmed it, are also accused that the proposal must be made on a microphone. Every day it is refuted here by the President of the Chamber of Deputies reading the proposals according to what goes out of the Gremium. This is refuted by the fact that proposals are made in writing concerning the setting up of the commission of inquiry and a number of other proposals, including drafts of laws which are also not referred to microphones, proposals from committees which are submitted in writing. So the Rules of Procedure do not exclude, and even in a number of cases, calls for the proposal to be tabled in writing. [[Due to the great noise very poor audibility.]] So I want to define myself against the false information that's being spread here. And as to when the proposal was submitted. You know when the proposal was submitted? Because I am convinced that the proposal was tabled within 19 hours, and that the only reason why it was not voted on was because you made it impossible to vote by your appearance. [[13.20 hours]] The fundamental difference from the previous negotiations, compared to the previous Government's negotiations, is that the debate has indeed been properly closed and that the vote has taken place only after everyone in this Chamber of Deputies has had the opportunity to express themselves. It is not possible to accept as a constitutionally correct interpretation that an individual, one person, or the party chairman, who ordered this procedure for other colleagues in his club, can paralyze the entire Chamber of Deputies' actions so that all other laws fall under the table because of one law. We had a legislative emergency here, there was a risk to the health of our citizens, and it was right that we had made a decision on the matter and that we had overcome the obstructions that were here, and we had overcome them even in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The procedure was strong, but it was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I respect Mr Okamura's right to turn to the Constitutional Court, just as I note that the Constitutional Court is already overwhelmed and that there are people whose complaints are justified, so I ask you to really appreciate whether it makes sense to overwhelm the Constitutional Court of Complaints, which the best lawyers in the Czech Republic say is doomed to failure from the outset. [[The MPs are beating the benches.]] The Constitutional Court also has complaints from people whose fundamental constitutional rights have actually been violated. Please seriously consider this carefully whether the Constitutional Court needs to be overwhelmed in this way when it has no chance of success. You here, Mr Okamura, have called for the resignation of Vice-President Skopeček for allegedly violating the constitution, but let us remember what we have here in the Chamber of Deputies! [[In an elevated voice.]] Here in the Chamber of Deputies, we know that the law on the taxation of church restitution has been passed, which everyone has been saying since the beginning is unconstitutional, and you have been riding for it. And it is a law with which we have the Constitutional Court's decision that it really was unconstitutional! So let's talk about cases where the laws were actually found to be unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, and it was necessary for you to support the law on church restitutions, or the law on the taxation of church restitutions, which the Constitutional Court knocked down as unconstitutional. So please start with you before you lecture others on how to decide, on the basis of things that have not been discussed by the Constitutional Court at all. In relation to the Constitutional Court, only the original pandemic law was assessed and the Constitutional Court, with the exception of a few words on return financial assistance, was consecrated. To conclude, I would like to call on the media: please do not jump on every crap that is released here at the counter. [[The MPs are screaming in dissent from the benches.]] Check your information, check your reality, there's a huge amount of manipulation that sounds, things that don't support reality, and try to tell the truth in relation to your journalistic honor after verifying all the facts. [[Rush in the hall.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u13	Another with priority rights is signed by President Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, only to President Michálek, through Mr President. I understand your defense, Mr President, keep it for the Constitutional Court, I think you'll need it. And as for the media, - the media, yes, check with President Michálek for what is true and do not jump democratically into any other talk. [[Laughs in the hall.]] To Minister Jurečka. Mr. Secretary, I don't understand. I didn't understand your statement that Mr. Okamura was given time from somebody to reconstruct here. From you, did he get any time from the five-wheeler? I thought it came from the Rules of Procedure Act. Did you give him some time to have Mr. Okamura here... or the five-wheeler or the Prime Minister or your government graciously give Mr. Okamur some time to democratically reconstruct here? Because, according to the Constitutional Court's finding, obstruction is a democratic tool of the opposition to ensure that a law is not passed. So that's one thing I didn't understand, and the fact that we were obstructing - and I couldn't even understand it - the program, of course, because you took advantage of the shortened negotiations, you acted in a legislative state, and you adjusted the length of the debate. [[a state of legislative emergency?]] This means that you have abused the short-term negotiations, you have discussed the law in a legislative state, and you have abused the debate for five minutes once, which means that we could all speak here once for five minutes. [[a state of legislative emergency?]] So it's not exactly what you're saying, and I'm curious myself about the Constitutional Court's decision. To Mr. Skopečka: I am confident of breaking the law on his part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u15	And another with priority rights - Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u16	On the previous speech of the President of the Radim Fiala Parliamentary Club. I think that if the President had followed the law strictly and not been so generous, they had turned off Tomie Okamur's microphone long ago because it had nothing to do with what we were supposed to discuss. However, when Mr. Chairman of the SPD Tomio Okamura complains that there is little time, I just want to remind you without any comment intended wrong - you took a four-hour break during the debate on the pandemic law. You could have spoken for four hours, Mr. Chairman, if you hadn't taken that break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-001-001.u17	I'm checking the O.R. to see if anyone else is applying with priority rights? No, okay, we've closed point one. According to the approved agenda, we should continue with the polling points. So I'm opening point number.
