ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u1	22. Government proposal for a law on restrictive measures against certain serious acts in international relations (Sanction Act) /German press 256/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Minister Šalomoun will state the bill. I hereby ask him to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the floor. The Sanction Act is what the government had in its programming statement under the name of the Magnity Act. We had a vision that we were going to set it up by the end of this year, but the events in Ukraine have greatly accelerated the preparation of this law. The purpose of this penalty law is to enable the Czech Republic, within the framework of its foreign and security policy, to sanction those who violate or undermine international peace, security, human rights and freedoms, democracy and other protected values. Entities which may be sanctioned by this law may be both natural and legal persons, but they may also be entities without legal personality. The objectives of the penal law could be divided into two areas. For one thing, it is the incorporation of the legal rules for the preparation of the Czech Republic's proposal to include the entity concerned in the European Union's penalty list, and it is the current incorporation of the rules for the adoption of its own national restrictive measures. As far as the second objective is concerned, the national list will be complementary to the European one and will always try to put an entity on the European list, and only if it does not succeed in the foreseeable future, will it use our national list. As regards the applicable sanctions that can be imposed, this does not address the law directly, but it addresses the law on the implementation of international sanctions, which has been amended recently and has become effective on 1 September 2022. So the procedure will be done by means of this law. The proposal was discussed in the committees and it turned out that perhaps the majority saw it as necessary, so I hope that it will be released until further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u3	Thank you. I merely recall that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the foreign committee as a committee of guarantee and the press was also ordered by constitutional law. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 256/1 to 3. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Marek Ženíšek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Foreign Committee discussed the press at its meeting on 1 September this year and it has to be said that in the discussion, most members of the committee expressed their support for the need - not only for the need but also for the reasons mentioned earlier by the Minister, to adopt the legal standard and did not propose any amendments. And in this spirit, he adopted the following resolution: "Foreign Committee I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic the Government's proposal for a law on restrictive measures against certain serious negotiations in international relations, the so-called penal law, the House's press 256, to approve; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the proposer and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to propose other necessary adjustments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution; IV. Instructs the President to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u5	Thank you and now please, although I do not see it here, rapporteur for the constitutionally-legal committee, Mrs Helena Válková. I see President Vondráček will be in her place, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mrs Válková is excused for reasons of work from 5:30 p.m., unfortunately she has not been asked to discuss this press. She only asked me for a brief report. The constitutionally-legal committee will bring the substance forward, I suppose, by a fellow Member of the Haas, because he cooperated with Mrs Válková on the amendment. You earned it because the rapporteur's report will probably be shorter than if a colleague named Válková called it. So I am merely informing you that we were discussing this on the 2nd of September on the Constitutional and Legal Committee and after a broad agreement and after a discussion of the expert, which focused on the legal side of the matter and on the formal side, we interrupted, we were given a deadline for amendments, and we renegotiated on 16th of September with the fact that the discussion was relatively short, because we actually found some agreement. We didn't go into the nature of the law, but we removed some terminology in particular, some time-limit has been shortened. I really do not want to take information time from Mr Haas, who, in fact, together with Mrs Válková, tabled a joint amendment, which was unanimously adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u7	Well, thank you, and I hereby open a general debate. Yes, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Haas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u8	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I am actually speaking here today on this point on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Válková, who, as a woman, would take precedence as a lady. I will follow the words of the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of Mr Vondráček. Indeed, the Magnitský law was adopted within the constitutional-legal committee after a very good expert debate entirely unanimously, which I think is a law which has such fundamental political, security, human rights aspects, so the broad consensus here undoubtedly suits the law. I will try not to hold you back, and I will give you a very brief mention or describe the content of the amendment that has become a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. He has been processed in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, consulted with him, agreed with him. There are about five following points in the amendment. Firstly, in order to strengthen the full clarity of the law in relation to its subsidiarity to European sanctions mechanisms, an explicit reference to the European Union's founding treaties has been added to the law so that there is not only a reference to the secondary law of the European Union but directly to the founding treaties. This was, in principle, the first such important legal aspect that appeared in the amendment. Another relatively crucial point is that the deadlines have been shortened, because the law can potentially have major effects on the entities subject to the law, so the deadlines within which I will say the Ministry, the Government are taking place in the procedure and in the process under the law. That's the second essential element. The third essential element of the amendment is that, in principle, the procedural mechanism for the abolition of the registration in the penalty list has been explicitly added to the law, provided that the factual reasons which led to the entry on the list have passed. Finally, the last - so the four are the key points - finally, the last of the points of the amendment is basically strengthening the role of private entities, which, when collecting or saving the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with other Czech entities of the state administration, security forces and so on, basically, collects information about faulty negotiations, which then leads to registration on the penalty list. Of course, the collection of information may have an impact on the position, the obligations of private entities, so the law, which I think is also a very proper procedure, a constitutional procedure. First, reasonable deadlines for the obligation of cooperation between private entities with the Ministry have been fulfilled within the scope of the Ministry's collection activity, and (b) the claim of these entities has been added if their cooperation with the Ministry in the matter of this important law would entail some costs on the part of private entities, for the reimbursement of these - I will stress three times - effectively and necessarily incurred costs. So much for the description, for the sake of the effectiveness of today's meeting, of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Is there anyone else who's interested? Yes, I see Mr. Strýček. You have your word. We are still in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u10	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I want to express, as the club rapporteur, the position of the club of the ANO movement. As we have already announced at first reading, we will, of course, support this law. In view of the current political situation and the overall development of the war conflict in Ukraine, it is certainly necessary to adopt and approve this law. I would therefore like to express or acknowledge the fact that this proposal has been submitted to a proper legislative process, in particular its discussion in the IDA, and that it has not been discussed in an accelerated procedure under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as originally requested by the petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-006-022.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else interested in speaking in the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. And I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word? The rapporteur? Neither do I. Thank you. So we can embark on a detailed debate, which I hereby initiate. I merely remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. No one is to be put forward in a detailed debate, which therefore concludes the detailed debate and ends at the same time with a second reading of this proposal. Thank you all for your cooperation. And let me start another point and that's a point number.
