ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u1	78. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended / House print 215/ - first reading which I hereby open. The Government's position has been delivered as House press 215/1 and I will ask that Mr Marek Benda present the proposal for the appellant. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, because I expect the debate on this press to be a little longer, I will try not to extend the introductory word too much, nevertheless: The chairmen of the government coalition's parliamentary clubs bring you a long-awaited amendment to the Civil Service Act. The Civil Service Act has been here since 2014, its main objective was to depolitize the state administration. I think that this goal is being achieved to a certain extent, yet it turns out that it has a number of shortcomings that need to be addressed in some way. According to the evaluation carried out, according to the ex post assessment report of the impact of the Civil Service Act, the selection process of civil servants is very inefficient due to its considerable administrative burden on the application of administrative proceedings. The knowledge of the application practice of the Civil Service Act also points to time and administrative complexity. The system of selection of the superiors strengthens the closure of the public service and restricts access to certain experts, which has a negative impact on the professionalism of the public service. Furthermore, according to the ex post assessment report, the current legislation does not create internal competition at the level presented by the State Service, which would naturally motivate them to provide stable high performance. This can have a negative impact on the efficiency of the performance of the public service as well as on professionalism, since it does not allow capable civil servants almost any career shift and high stability closes the civil service to outsiders as well. As an appropriate measure, therefore, the administration proposes the appointments of those who have been put forward for a fixed period, and the current supervisor could apply for this position repeatedly. At the same time, the legislation provides for a term of office only with the Deputy Minister of the Interior for the Civil Service, the Personnel Director of the Civil Service and the Secretary of State. The term of office of the Head of Service shall be fixed only if it so provides for a special law. These are, I think, the fundamental disadvantages that the existing Civil Service Act has brought, and now what we bring behind the government coalition as changes. The first is the simplification and acceleration of the process of entry into the public service, where, in particular, the process procedures that are there today really complicate the selection and entry procedures. The second important principle is the extension of the circle of persons who can participate in the tender to be presented - indeed, even in the civil service, some competition must be introduced. The idea that one day I'll become a civil servant, sit there forever and not have to be subjected to any external pressure is very inappropriate. The third major change is the replacement of deputy directors for the management of the section by the senior directors of the sections. This is a debate that took place here in 2014 very fundamentally, which then came to such an inappropriate compromise in my opinion that the so-called political deputy and the so-called technical deputy were made at the same time to the director of the sections, which led to the fact that we have two categories of deputy ministers in a number of ministries. In my opinion, this is a very inappropriate solution and it is reasonable to stop the administration from being held by the head of the section. That was the idea that originally went with the Civil Service Act, to say there exists stability, here is the performance of the state administration, which is really supposed to be in some internal competition, and then there is the minister as head of the office, with which he comes and also leaves the team of his deputy. This, of course, does not mean that the new Minister cannot keep any of the existing Deputy Ministers, we see this at every government rotation, but that there is a political management of the Ministry, the Minister, its Deputy Ministers, who also represent the Minister, for example, at the meetings of the House bodies under the Constitution and at other meetings, at government meetings, and these are really meant to form the political leadership of the Ministry, which does not immediately interfere with the performance of the state administration, but creates the concept, creates the path that the relevant Minister should go. Another fundamental change is the introduction of the terms of office presented. I consider this change to be absolutely crucial, absolutely crucial - I think it will probably be most discussed in this House - at which level, but I think that if we do - we defend every four years, every mayor defends every four years, even in justice we have a duty to write a new trial after seven years of changing leaders. The idea that at some level of government these people are there to live, to say the least, or until they decide that they want to leave, or until they have a repeatedly negative assessment, is very non-inspiring for all those who are not there, and it really needs to create a system where after five years, as well as in almost all other professions, there is some kind of defense. There may be a repeated defense, but some kind of competition is being created. [[10.10 hours]] Other changes are the reconciliation of the family and the personal life of civil servants with the performance of the state service and the performance of the state service from another place. That is, let's say, the bonuses and benefits to be granted to civil servants. Service leave for individual study purposes and simplification, or transfer, service evaluation. So many, at least, fundamental changes, with which this parliamentary proposal comes. The government has given it a favourable opinion, and we believe that we will be able to discuss it by the end of this year so that the administration of the ministries can actually correspond to the new government so that the principle of independence of the state service is maintained there, but at the same time that, when someone wins the election, it determines the direction of the ministry. It's not like he's taking over the entire office, including his deputies, after his predecessor. That's what I think is the most important and key change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u3	Thank you, too. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we are discussing the proposal of Members of Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended. We are discussing, as has already been mentioned, the parliamentary bill. I will return to this area later in the general debate. The petitioners state the shortcomings they see in the current legislation and declare that they want to create the prerequisites for even deeper depoliticisation and professionalisation of the state service, to motivate civil servants to further professional development and to improve the quality of the service carried out and to strengthen the responsibilities of the superiors. The reasoned report sets out the circles of problems that it wants to eliminate by the amendment. The critical lack of existing legislation should be the existence of two independent positions of deputy ministers in the ministries and the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic - Deputy Member of the Government, who is part of the political apparatus and does not have significant powers in service relations, and Deputy for the management of the section, which is the superior, and thus the stage of proceedings under the Civil Service Act. In order to depolitize the state administration as one of the objectives of the Civil Service Act, the petitioners consider the necessary strict separation of political and administrative, expert lines of the state administration. The present system of selection of the superiors allegedly strengthens the closure of the state service and limits access to it for some experts, which has a negative impact on the professionalism of the state administration and the failure to allow capable civil servants almost any career shift. High stability is intended to close public service to outside professionals. I do not identify with the legislators that high stability is a problem in the civil service. The contribution of stability to administrative and decision-making activities in administrative and infringement proceedings is completely ignored. For example, ministries are appeal authorities in certain proceedings and also review administrative decisions. The stabilization of government in such positions is rather desirable for reasons of unification of decision-making practice. The present proposal aims to reduce the administrative burden associated with the implementation of the selection procedures by exempting the selection procedure from the scope of Part Two and Third Administrative Regulations. To put it simply, the appointment of the selection board will not take the form of a decision. It is proposed to shorten the minimum period for lodging applications from 10 days to 7 days, which may not be used. This adjustment seems unnecessary, however, contrary to the stated attempt to allow the wider involvement of the professional public in the selection procedures. If this provision is used, a proper assessment of whether or not to sign in may prevent potential tenderers from making use of the provision, as delivery itself is included within this period, that is, not mailing, but delivery to the address room of a particular office. An applicant who does not have a data box and who lives at a greater distance will have to provide personal transport of the request to the mailroom. Seven days to decide whether or not to sign up for such an important position, and I still have time to deliver the request, seems little to me if I do not know about it in advance. The possibility shall be extended to limit the number of applicants interviewing before the selection committee. The limitation will be due to the successful completion of the written examination prior to the oral interview. It is still possible to apply this procedure if the number of applicants is at least ten and at least five applicants must be invited to the interview. It is proposed to reduce the number of applicants to at least five and then invite at least three applicants to the interview. The applicants presume that requests for replacement interview dates are primarily intended to prevent this from being made possible primarily with the approval of the service body, regardless of the nature of the obstacle to participation in the specified interview date. According to the present amendment, the selection committee must, if the applicant duly apologizes, always set a replacement date for the interview and only in cases of obstacles to the applicant's will independent. It is also proposed, in order to speed up the procedure, to notify the applicant of the obligation to accept the service in the application of an electronic address for the delivery of documents in the selection procedure, unless the applicant has a data box set up. It is proposed that the Institute of objections be withdrawn against the course and outcome of the selection procedure, with the fact that the Institute of Complaints pursuant to § 175 of the Administrative Code is sufficient for the protection of applicants. The selection procedure shall be shortened from 90 days from the expiry of the period for lodging the application to 60 days. No selection by selection boards will be necessary for the occupation of posts in the 5th to 9th grade. It will be possible for an assessment of the suitability of the applicants to be carried out directly by the superior. It is proposed to extend the circle of persons who may participate in the selection procedure to the superiors. The titles are changed and the section heads will be the new head of the section. Only those who perform tasks, not independently of political will will will, will be newly deputy members of the government. To put it simply, the Deputys will only be political Deputys, while the limit on the number of these Deputys is abolished from two to an unlimited number. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic is a member of the Government obliged to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of its resolution. This also applies to a meeting of a committee, commission or committee of inquiry, where a member of the government may be represented by his deputy or another member of the government, unless his/her personal participation is explicitly requested. In the explanatory memorandum, the appellants state that the relevant member of the Government may provide that he may be represented by the head of the section at the meeting of the Government, at a meeting of the Committee or of the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, including the committee of inquiry, or by a meeting of the Committee or of the Senate Committee, but the question is whether such a mandate will not be contrary to the Constitution if, moreover, the number of political representatives is unlimited. There is no reason, then, for the name Deputy to be replaced in the Constitution by some other explanation of the term in another law when the Deputys exist. On this issue, it is clear why this bill should have been presented in the standard legislative way. The new institute is the establishment of the term of office of the leaders. The proposal submitted shall establish a term of office for all the superiors, except for the heads of departments, for a period of five years. This extends the circle of leaders who are appointed for a fixed period. The same post may be held repeatedly during successful completion of the selection procedure. If another tenderer is selected in the selection procedure, the former superior shall not cease his service and shall be transferred to another suitable post of service. But what will happen if another suitable place is not available? This question may have a negative effect on the willingness to sign up for the tender. [[10.20 hours]] The transitional provisions are very important in this law. Selection procedures to fill vacant posts introduced before the date of entry into force of this Act and until that date the final termination will be cancelled. Other selection procedures initiated before the date of entry into force of this Act shall be assessed in the version effective before the date of entry into force of this Act. The date of entry into force of this Act will be assessed by the Superiors for their five-year term of office from the date of appointment, i.e. retroactively. If they were appointed more than five years ago, the term for their appointment shall expire on the date of entry into force of this Act. To that end, I would like to quote from the explanatory memorandum to point 4 of the transitional provisions: "In the case of the occupation of a post of service of the Head of Service Office, the Head of Staff, or the Director of the Section of the Personnel Director of the Civil Service Section and the Director of the Department, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the proposed Act, it is not over-competitive, the selection procedure must be announced gradually and prudently, the timetable being under the responsibility of the service authorities and, respectively, of the members of the Government." As rapporteur, I would like to point out that the need for gradual and prudent tender procedures is only in the explanatory report, but is not included in the draft law. The effectiveness is proposed on 1 January 2023, i.e. next year. I see a fundamental deficiency in the fact that it is not considered conceptually, and that officials are also in the municipalities, and they are governed by Law No. 312/2002 Coll., the Act on the Officials of Territorial Self-governing Bodies and on the Amendment of Certain Acts. I'm going to give one to the eye-beating example. According to the proposed adjustment, there will be no need for a selection panel to be required for the posts assigned to the 5th to 9th grade, an assessment of the immediate superiors will suffice. On the other hand, regional authorities, magistrates, municipal districts, city districts and municipalities of the third and second degree are obliged to apply to any official for an indefinite period of time, regardless of his grade. The legality of the Act on the Officials of Territorial Self-governing Bodies and the Civil Service Act should be a matter of course. Another significant deviation of only municipalities from the state is the inviolability of municipal secretaries, who are revocable only for reasons consistent with the reasons for notice under the Labour Code. It is a question of whether a similar five-year term of office should also be conceptually applicable to those positions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also make my views known in the general debate. So much for this intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u5	Thank you, and I hereby open a general debate in which Members have come forward in the order that Mrs Klára Dostálová is the first to sign up, and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová can prepare herself with the announced application. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u6	Madam President, fellow Members, honourable representatives of the Government, well, when I was thinking about how to actually present this speech, how to define the amendment to the Civil Service Act, I did not think of any other terms other than 'fast' and 'without discussion'. The government wants to change the law of service, but it presents it as a parliamentary proposal. The coalition prepared a change in the service law to ensure the depoliticisation of the state administration. An important proposal, I agree, from which the government majority promises better functioning of the state, but this proposal did not come through the standard way. It was submitted by five of the heads of the MPs, arguing that this process was faster. The original review procedure for the proposal was cancelled and was approved directly by the Government. It is a law that is a fundamental condition for the drawing up of European funds, and I ask, how was the parliamentary proposal discussed with the European Commission when you did not allow it to be expressed by the experts and their legal instruments? Although an inter-reviewed commentary procedure was announced, which was to take place from 16 to 27 May, the Ministry was ultimately unable to deliver any opponent of the MP's amendment to the important law. Minister for Legislation Michal Šalomoun for pirát removed the proposal from the commentary proceedings and recorded again without it. Moreover, the material was included directly at the government's meeting. In doing so, the Government's programming statement states that the Cabinet undertakes to submit laws in the usual manner. "The legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration will be submitted by standard legislative means and experts within the Government's Legislative Council will comment on them before submitting them to the Government," the programme statement states, from a document signed by all the government parties. Experts outside the state administration blame the coalition for coming with the amendment without sufficient opponent and open debate with both experts and opposition. As stated in the opinion of the Trade Union of State Authorities and Organisations: "The journey of a quick-sewn parliamentary proposal which has not been subject to a broad expert discussion and in particular has not been adequately discussed with the social partners is also reflected in the quality of the submitted material'. His President, Mr Pavel Bednář, criticizes not only the way in which the amendment was made but also the alleged political intervention in the legislation. According to Mr Bednář, the Ministry of the Interior sent the thesis to the departments of the prepared material and their position, but neither Minister Rakušan nor Prime Minister Fiala had ever responded, and the union's comments then appeared in the proposal. According to the reference report, the main result of the amendment is to simplify and accelerate the process of entry into the civil service, establish a term of office for senior staff or extend the circle of people who may apply for these posts. Other objectives include, for example, abolishing the limit for the number of political representatives or allowing civil servants to work from home. What, then, is to change the fundamentals of the amendment? It has already been said, in particular, the question of the Deputy Ministers. Those expert, i.e. sub-heads for section management, propose to rename the coalition as head of the section. The competent member of the Government may provide that the head of the section is entitled to attend the meeting of the Government meeting and to represent him at a meeting of the Committee or of the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, including the commission of inquiry, unless a member of the government is specifically requested to participate in a meeting of the committee or of the Senate committee, he shall be regarded as Deputy of a member of the Government. This part is also mentioned in the Government's opinion, which highlights a possible contradiction with the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This part of the regulation is also criticized by trade unions, for example, according to which "this regulation mixes the political and bureaucratic apparatus. In particular, in the possibility of determining that the head of the section is also Deputy Prime Minister, the political and managerial levels are being mixed again, which goes completely against the meaning of both the proposed amendments and the Civil Service Act itself," said President Bednář in his opinion. Renaming should also take place in the case of the Deputy Minister of the Interior for Civil Service, who is to be the Supreme Secretary of State. However, criticism has in the past not been subject to the title of the position, rather as a concern about the politicality of the so-called superofficial who formally covers the civil service. The Supreme Secretary of State falls under the Ministry of the Interior and is appointed by the Government. While he could only be deputy for six years so far, according to the amendment, he could repeat his mandate. Again, I quote from the opinion: "The impossibility of being reappointed was the only potential insurance policy against subjecting the Supreme Secretary to inappropriate political pressures," comments Reconstruction of the State, which has long devoted itself to depolitizing the government. According to the proposal, their five-year mandate could be repeated by civil servants, but an unlimited long mandate would be reduced to five years by other senior staff. [[10.30 hours]] Newly, any minister could also have more than two political representatives, as is the case so far. But political representatives have no responsibility. I'm gonna try to get close to you because I've actually worked in state administration for eight years, first as Deputy, then as Secretary of State, so believe me, I have really had a lot of experience with applying the Civil Service Act. What you're proposing - and I'm saying again, I'm also convinced that the Civil Service Act deserves a change, but these things really should be discussed - because your proposal means that it will basically be a line: Senior Director of the Department - Head of Department - Head of Department and Official. Above them will be an unlimited number of political representatives. There could be two of them tonight, seven, eight new ones. But these are people who have no responsibility, they can't control any official because they're not under the service. Those are the people who are going to stand up to the minister, forgive me for the expression, but, of course, by law, you're admitting to them pleasures, and they're not small pleasures. Of course, they're huge salaries, they're two cars - one with a driver, one without a driver, it's their secretariat. But these people aren't executives, they really don't have any agenda, specific responsibility, because they're not in the management structure of the state service. So it's really a matter of considering whether this proposal should actually sit at one table again, even though I understand what the petitioner wanted, that means that the minister could actually bring his team of deputys, who would, of course, help him with the impact of political goals inside the ministry, but why we're building an intermediate level here, that's not clear to me. So why aren't they ordinary deputy ministers, political deputy ministers, who would, of course, be in charge of the selection procedure, would be responsible for the state agenda, would they be responsible for the operation of the head of the department, the head of the department, the relevant officials of the section? Of course, it would be logical for these Deputys, not to call them either political or professional, then to come and go with a particular minister, but from the level of the Director of the Department and which, of course, we must take care of the professionalisation and stabilization of the state administration. Selection procedures are also a frequent target of criticism of the current form of the law. The proposed amendment thus addresses the selection procedure on several points. Newly, it should only be one-wheeled. I would like you all to look into the 2018 Stenoprotocols when we actually made three-wheel tenders two-wheeled. I printed the speeches when it's time for them, so I'm happy to read them here, because it's really very interesting whether colleagues like the crystal ball talked about each other in 2022, or what they meant, because some of the sentences used by colleagues would probably be worth reading to get a new coalition to think about them. As far as tenders are concerned, as I have already said, they will now be only one-wheeled. Those interested in a leading position in the administration should know in advance what they will be required for and for how much they will do their job. The last amendment made it possible for both career officials and non-government officials to apply for the second round, that is to say, to bring it closer: today, actually, after the amendment in 2018, the issue is that, in the first round of the competition, existing officials can really grow their careers so that they can participate, however, in the second round, so that the new wind can come. I completely agree with that, of course, that the government should revive itself, which was also allowed to the outsiders. Today, therefore, it is proposed, the latest proposal is for external candidates to report for public service work in the first round. But what we need to look at here again is how they prove practice. I don't think the petitioner could even be serious about designing the individual positions - and I allow you to have an idea of how it is: the Supreme Secretary of State has the conditions of the tender that he must be over forty years old, he must have five years of practice in the field and she can count from school and count for the whole period. So imagine that they apply to the Supreme Secretary of State, the very highest, a person who needs 50 years and basically demonstrates five years of experience in a field that can add up. This means that if he proves economic education or legal education for example, he can - of course, one year he did it, he didn't do it for the next five years, and this is how he can add up the five years. It must also have experience as a manager or member of the statutory body for at least four years, and may be added up again. Today's proposal is that over the past eight years, he must have had the practice to really reflect his real practice into that performance. It means, it's about the professionalisation of the state administration. I would really recommend that the petitioners take another look at this, because it's still with the Secretary of State. There is an appointment for five years, professional experience four years and three years as a manager or member of a statutory body. He's been counting again since school. Head of the Service Office - appointments for five years and conditions are the same as with the Secretary of State, i.e. four years and three years as head. He's been counting again since school. Head of the Section - appointment for five years, professional experience but only three years and two years as head. He's been counting again since school. Director of the Department - appointment for five years, professional practice two years, leading as one year, only one year and again from school. I think it's just the notion that we want to professionalize the state administration that doesn't really come together with this, and it would certainly be worth thinking about this. So what is the conclusion of this change? I'm sure there'll be an extension of the possible candidates for the superiors' seats, there's no dispute about that. However, the question is whether this approach will bring more qualified candidates, or whether it will be the insertion of their acquaintances and supporters into the service offices, and thus, essentially, the strengthening of special-purpose political influences on the civil service. As well as the reconstruction of the state, the fact that it does not strengthen the possibilities of career progress from within the state administration is also to be blamed for the fact that it does not in any way strengthen the possibility of a career process. I will allow myself to really recapitulate some things, because I would also like to draw attention to some of the problems that are. We have already said here that the proposal therefore comes with the cancellation of the so-called technical deputy or section director, and this new position will be marked by the head of the section. The head of the section according to the proposal after being appointed by the Minister may represent a member of the government, as well as a deputy member of the government. In fact, the government's consent itself draws attention to the problem with the constitution. So it would really be worthwhile for the petitioners to at least look at it when their own opinion draws attention to it. What, on the contrary, is to be commended? This has to be said that the selection procedures are excluded from the administrative procedure. This is certainly a step in the right direction, because it has indeed covered the selection procedures for a very long time. Newly it will be necessary to demonstrate citizenship and knowledge of languages when submitting the application, and earlier it could have been added later. A new CV with data on practice, expertise and skills will have to be documented, but calculated from school. The replacement date of the interview for the excused applicant will be with the approval of the Service Authority only. Earlier, all proper apologies had to be given a substitute term. It is stipulated that the department heads will be appointed for an indefinite period of time and will not compete. On the other hand, the Supreme Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, the Head of Staff, the Director of Personnel and the Directors of the Union must always go through the selection procedure and be appointed for a fixed period, but - and here again I ask for your attention - these people are in the service for an indefinite period of time. That means if every five years a new government comes in and trades the entire ministry from union directors, all these people will end up, it's called in our termology of state officials, in the pool. And I would like to draw everyone's attention to what that means. I cannot imagine how this proposal could have been supported by the Ministry of Finance. The pool means those people are getting 80 percent of their salary for six months and they're not working. They're waiting to see if there's any position they can get into. And what happens if the position isn't found? They're leaving the state service, but not just like that, they're leaving with a significant severance package. [[10.40 hours]] And now, once again, let's see how it is. When he works in civil service within three years, he gets three salaries when he's six years old, he gets six salaries - so when you put five years there, it's clear that everyone will leave with six extra salaries - nine salaries, over nine years old, twelve salaries. So you're actually building a machine here, which, of course, is going to cost the state budget huge money, because if I actually take it the way it was supposed to be, so every five years, the new government can exchange officials from the head of the department, then the pool, it's going to be like a million-fifty, okay? It's gonna be like a really big pool where we could all fit in. And it's going to cost the state budget a lot of money. Other things that are changing are more strict terms of competition. A significant range of applicants will be expanded. There is also a five-day service leave for individual studies. But again, again, as it was sewn with a hot needle, officials just ask for it, they don't have to explain at all what individual leave they took. So I'm afraid that there are simply people in every office who, of course, take significant advantage of the system, and it will certainly be very difficult for state secretaries. So even here, I'd recommend some way to treat it. Newly, pleasures are given to the law, that's really new. So the State Secretary, the Deputy Minister, the senior directors of the section are entitled to service cars, both with and without the driver. They are entitled, of course, to all computers, mobile phones, secretariats and so on. I repeat again, the head of the section is actually in the management hierarchy, which means he is responsible for the civil service, has his subordinates and so on. The Deputy Minister has no such thing, no responsibility, no concern for the officials, nothing. He's really there just for the sake of a particular minister. Deputy Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister - the number is not newly determined. Again, I repeat that the current law spoke of the maximum number of two, so that, of course, there would be representativeness in the government. It's now an unlimited number. So if I imagine the ministry, which has seven sections, there will be seven senior directors of the sections, there, of course, with all responsibility and so on, and above them may be seven, eight, nine political representatives, which the state budget will pay with considerable resources. Of course, these people will never be covered by the possibilities of European funds or any such thing, which means only from the state budget. Another problem is transitional provisions. The rapporteur has already spoken very carefully and very well about this. It should be noted that, on the effective date of the law, the head of the section and the directors of the trade unions will be considered to be appointed for a fixed period. If the deadline has passed since the appointment, that is, if the directors of the trade unions and senior directors of the sections are already there for more than five years, they will all have to compete within 12 months, and this concerns the heads of offices, senior directors of the sections and directors of the sections, and within 18 months the staff director of the section and director of the department. The open selection procedures for the Superiors will be terminated and announced again under new conditions. The question is whether it really doesn't introduce some discriminatory approaches, because someone applied under certain conditions, suddenly cancels and will report according to new ones. As far as senior staff, officials are concerned, it will be completed according to the original adaptation. Here you can see again, of course, the reporters according to the original performance - apparently it is necessary to get specific people to higher positions as quickly as possible. We perceive it, and I repeat it here again, we perceive that the Civil Service Act should be changed, but it should be done on the basis of a debate to avoid the kicks that are many in the proposed amendment. At the same time, the amendment does not address the position of state secretary, who is the closest associate of the minister. Why, for example, cannot the Minister decide directly on its acceptance or appeal if, for example, the Office fails to fulfil its tasks? But this does not concern the novel at all. The amendment deals only with positions that are at ministries, i.e. professional deputy directors, union directors, which means these top positions of management, which are called performances. What's with the rush novel? Here I will borrow the words of my colleague, who - and I quote: "Quality civil servants are being consulted and average people are coming up on five-calice. A rapid amendment to the Service Act is merely evidence of this. Five sides have hundreds of supporters, lobbyists, and scribblers who have helped in the elections and now need posts. They need government contracts and control over them quickly. That's the only reason another wave of clientelism starts, but this time it's literally a tsunami." Because of many outstanding problems, whether it is a problem with the constitution, unsuccessful civil servants in competitions, the so-called pool, which means a really huge burden on the state budget, inconclusive practice - at least we should look at the fact that management positions are defined in some way, we can inspire ourselves with the labour code, I suggest that we go back to recasting the proposal as a government proposal after consulting the European Commission and comment points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u7	Thank you, too. Beautiful morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Am I to take this as a proposal in the general debate, Mrs Dostálová? Yes, so there was a motion to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. Of course, we will not vote on this until after the general debate. Your performance brought up two factual points. The first person to come to a point of fact is Mrs. Berenika Peštová and Jan Berki prepares herself. By the time he gets to the speaker's desk, I'd like to read two apologies. The first apologizes to Mr David Pražák, today between 12 and 14 o'clock for work reasons, and further apologizes to Mrs Barbora Urbanová, between 9.30 and 13.30 today, the reason is not given here. Thank you, that was an apology. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In any case, I'd like to follow up on my previous speaker, Klára Dostálová. I, too, have been an expert deputy for eight years, which is certainly no secret, and I would just like you to understand what is happening at the moment. I had six directors under me, more than 115 officers, and, of course, with the heads of the department, and I managed all this myself as a deputy professor. I have a proper education for this, both college and doctorate and so on. Since, of course, the agenda was growing, I released - as each deputy is entitled to secretary and secretary - so I released one secretary and secretary, so I put these seats at the disposal of the section because the agenda is growing, and of course they couldn't handle the number of people, so these people were actually replaced, what I said I didn't need. I was driving my own car. I didn't have a driver. I've been driving my own car for eight years. I'm not saying I'm expecting any compliments from you, but I'm just gonna say, cut -- now's the time. My work is currently being done by three Deputys. Three Deputys are doing my job! Every deputy has his own driver, every deputy has his own secretary and the apparatus he needs. So just to kind of put it in context, that's why this amendment is being presented here so that all of this is beautifully legalized. So I'd quite like us to think about it. And what Klára Dostálová said here really deserves this law to go through a proper legislative process, because you've been constantly challenging what it was like, what we've been presenting here, what we've been presenting here, or what we've been presenting... [[President: Madam, time.]] I'll turn myself in again, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u9	Mr. Jan Berki is the next person to make a point of fact. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u10	Madam President, thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I actually thank Mrs Dostálová for the analysis, even though I disagree with some conclusions or arguments, but she was quite correct. I don't think I can say anything about the second performance, but I just don't know one thing. In principle, we agree that the Minister is coming to the Ministry to promote political will. In principle, we agree that he has deputy ministers there to help promote political will. So we agreed that the deputy actually has a political activity. At the same time, we agreed that he had the right to bring his team. I consider it quite logical and there is no explaining why. What I don't know is how he can bring his team through the tender, which you indicated in your speech, and I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u11	Thank you for keeping time. It raised further factual remarks, so at this point I will ask that Mrs Berenika Peštová come to the speaker's desk, and Zuzana Ožanová and Klára Dostálová are also registered. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u12	I'd like to finish what I started. Of course, the previous government was attacked - yes, the previous government was attacked for not adopting the right legislative path, or the process that was here. This is a parliamentary proposal, I think we agree, Mr President, that this is not a government proposal, it is a parliamentary proposal. The Ministry and, of course, also the regions, there are also those state authorities, and not only where it touches, the law touches them, they did not have the opportunity to comment because it did not go through the ordinary legislative process, and therefore they were not part of the process and could not make significant comments within it, or factual observations, or any other comments, were simply excluded, and this is wrong. That's what you've been blaming all along is that things like this shouldn't be happening, and they are happening at the moment. And I don't think it's a small law that it's not a transposition of a directive that maybe deserves a quick process. Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you were leaving. So I think it's no leg tech, but it's really a big change to the existing law and it deserves a really proper legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u13	Thank you. The other person who is registered with the factual remark is Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. I'll ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u14	Thank you. Madam President, I will not need two minutes. I will just point out that I understand when it comes to political work, but this bill also affects those who, for example - I will mention it at the Ministry of Transport - approve the technical competence of vehicles and do administrative management. And I think that we really should make a little more of a distinction in that law about when it comes to political work and when it comes to this kind of work, and there I think that continuity and stability would be an asset. I have already mentioned this in the news report, and I really believe that we must not confuse these two things together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u15	Thank you for keeping time. And the final point of fact, Mrs. Klára Dostálová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u16	Thank you, of course, for my response to my dear colleague, through you, Madam President. Of course it's been here before. Here's just a question - but it's not like that in the law, it's just that there's gonna be a law, sorry, a bunch of hic under the minister, who will have no responsibility, no officials, nothing, so officials will still be subject to the Secretary of State and so on. So if they don't want to listen to him, they won't listen to him because he has no power over them. That's why I said it would be worth going back to the novel, and what you really intend to do - I understand that so that the minister would have his team of people. But the way it used to work was that, of course, these Deputys were always for a certain period during the term of office of the Minister, and he, before settling for it by the Ministry, had made a tender. Don't tell me you only have one expert on everything. Of course, you as Minister also want to choose the finest team, so there's no reason not to have a tender, and then these people can be in the management structure and really the right hand of the minister, because otherwise it's just a puppet theater, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u17	Thank you for keeping time. But we have other factual points here. The next person to report is Mr. Richard Brabec, and Jan Berki will be prepared, and then Mr. Marek Benda is signed in with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u18	Thank you for the floor, I'm sure it'll take me two minutes to do that, and it'll actually be a link to the debate that's been here between my colleague Berki and my colleagues. In my experience of the eight-year-old minister, I dare say that I have experienced the previous model, and again - and so did Klára Dostálová - yes, indeed the minister should, and no one questions that, have the right to choose one of the nearest groups of people. The problem is that the proposal, as it is, you're putting it, or the plaintiffs are putting in it, a new layer of senior directors. We took over some deputy directors, under them were union directors, department heads or department heads, reporters, but now there's gonna be another layer of senior directors, so there's really gonna be some kind of pel-mel among the people who are gonna be under the service law, that is, the existing ones who would go to the chief executives, and, of course, purely political people who are gonna be running the political line that the minister came up with. But I think we can agree that it means that, of course, there will be more of these people logically. And so the question is, how many of these CEOs are going to be there, and how many places are needed for those smugglers -- forgive me that word, propagandized, but I think it's real -- because today, when you compare them, and they're definitely going to do the job, at least I hope if you compare the numbers of people political, i.e. those who were there during the Yes movement, let's say members of the YES movement at those ministries, so I dare say that today there are more people there in order with some clear political nomination. This means that the idea that this is the space for more x people to get there, maybe dozens, maybe hundreds to be politically nominated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u19	Ambassador, thank you for keeping the time. We have other factual points here. The first person to be logged in at this time is Mr Jan Berki and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u20	Thank you, one such technical - my last name is bowing down, even if it doesn't necessarily have to be, so we're bowing it down. I understand what you're saying, but it bothers me that you automatically assume that the political deputy is some sort of newsstand. That's the Minister's responsibility if he chooses the people who actually work there, or if it's someone who just drives his ass when I basically use your analogy. But again, the principle is that the minister is coming there to actually do politics, politically manage it. And I think we can agree on that - and I'm looking primarily at the former ministers - that there's just a lot of one person in this job that the team needs there. And I was just reacting to the fact that you're saying that he's supposed to pick these people through a tender, so now I see it as a formal tender. But I can't imagine how it's going to go, because, on the contrary, this seems to me that it's cleaner, because I'm saying that one of those criteria is, for example, political affiliation, because I don't automatically feel negative about it. The way I see it is that this man also says with his political affiliation whether he will pursue the same policy as the Minister, and I think he is just legitimate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u21	Thank you, thank you, Mr President. Now the next person to report with the facts is Berenika Peštová, registered, and Klára Dostálová and Robert králíček. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u22	I just wanted to ask: we basically have two models here. One is self-government, the other is the government. I understand what you're saying that the Minister will come and, of course, political deputy or any deputy that comes with him, they will try to fulfill what they're going to do, I understand that. But now we have the state administration. Now, what we're saying here is that they're going to be political vice presidents, they're going to be section bosses or chief executives, no matter what we call them, and now it depends on who's going to be doing the systemization, who's going to be, if a new crew gets in, like in my case, when I had one section, and I had six directors in that section. I'm already the order, I really knew it perfectly, I think. And now the new crew comes in, and they say it's not gonna be a group like this, which means there's not gonna be one headmaster, but those CEOs are gonna be three now, 'cause we're gonna chop it up. You know, it's just gonna grow. Will there be any certainty with those civil servants that this isn't going to happen, just like it did now? I understand what you want to do, and I understand that you just have to have some kind of apparatus of people you can trust, but I say, on the other hand, we have the state administration here, and the government should be inoperable, it should not be influenced by those policies. So how do you guarantee it won't happen?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u23	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. We have other factual points here, at this point in time, Klára Dostálová. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u24	Thank you. Once again, we're trading through the facts with a colleague, but I'm glad for that. We're basically not in conflict. I also feel that the Minister should bring his team. I'm just saying again, the way it's designed, the deputy doesn't have an agenda. He doesn't! He doesn't have any responsibility, he doesn't have any officials, so who in God's name will he be tasking? He will, of course, be tasked with a minister who will call him: keep an eye on the section for me there. But you don't have any room for maneuvering with those officials, they obviously listen to someone else entirely. That's why I say, let's sit down at the table and think about the model that you're also talking about, so that those undersecretaries of a member of the government, the Deputy Minister, have the particular professional agenda under them, because otherwise, if it's the way you suggested it, there's no other way to call it than the newsstand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u25	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister of Justice, Mr Pavel Blažek, is now registered with a factual remark. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u26	Hello, thank you for your word. I want to thank Mrs Dostálová for listing the various facts I identify with. As for the description of the situation, I'm not gonna drag in politics when the coalition was. We just have to briefly figure out what the development was, and the result is not entirely happy. The European Union wanted us to create a service law at all. Governments, I would say, for good reasons for some time have defended it, there is no other way to say it. Then it started, I remember until today the debates, the movement YES, and Mr Andrej Babiš here was enthusiastic about what a great thing it was, we have to introduce it, it's anti-corruption, and I don't know what everything to make the same Andrej Babiš, and now I'm on his side, has been unhappy in two years about the consequences of the implementation of the service law at times. Now we're back in the next phase, and I just want to say, the debate about who's responsible for what's more or who's not responsible has no meaning in the future. Here's the truth. We've created courts here in 30 years that we can barely talk about. You're so independent, you can barely even talk about them. If I add the demands of some media, we'll add with power to the state's attorneys, who are almost impossible to talk about as independent as they are. Then here we are creating a bureaucracy that we have given so many rights, and I would even say that the funds are also quite in a comfortable situation in which we have never been in our history. And one more thing. They have that protection because it is assumed that there will be more money in the private sphere, those people will be more at risk of being out of work, so those officials will protect themselves. We have achieved that they are protected and have even higher salaries than in the private sector. It's an absolute historical anomaly. And then there are the MPs and the government, who are in principle the most responsible for everything, are the most visible. They don't raise salaries. Let's see how it is. They don't raise salaries, they don't keep... [[Prime Minister, your time.]] I'd say that's one of those reasons and our protection, I'd say legal, why our seriousness is falling. I'm just calling, let's talk about it normally, in this thing, it's so serious, I'm sorry, we don't care if there's anybody in the YES or the ODS or we don't move. And we have to move on, or we're not gonna get the job done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u27	I was benevolent about two minutes. Thank you, Minister, I understand that you applied with priority and that a factual point is preferred. It has raised further factual points, at this point I will ask Mr Jan Berki to come, and once again I would like to apologize to him for the introduction last time. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u28	Thanks. Through you, to Mrs. Dostálová. I think we're spinning, we've got a different view of it. I just don't automatically see someone performing a political function as a newsstand, a priori. My colleague Peštová, through you, Madam Vice-President. Now, from my point of view, you've created the impression that there's the leadership of the ministry that's doing politics, and the rest of the ministry that's doing something else. No doubt, officials are to be independent in always acting legally, to give opinions and to perform the office professionally, but it still fills the Ministry's political steps. The Ministry is an apparatus that supports and at the same time fulfills the will of the Minister. I don't understand the strict division in your performance. There are definitely tasks that the minister will never interfere with, because he's already running in some kind of trial, but it's not that the office is completely out of the political will of the minister. That wouldn't make sense. After all, the ministry is to fulfill the political will that minister brings there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered to a factual remark is Mrs Klára Dostálová. Alena Schillerová, Robert králíček, Zuzana Ožanová, Berenika Peštová will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u30	Thank you very much. Then I'll make two remarks on the previous speakers. To the esteemed minister, he's just right. Of course, the whole law was created as a fundamental condition for drawing European funds. That's just the way it was, we were in a terrible timeline to even launch the 2014 to 2020 programming period. It just happened this way. We completely agree that there is a need to do something about the Civil Service Act. We're not going to argue with this here at all. What I disagree with is that this should be discussed. I cannot imagine that a law that is a fundamental condition for drawing European funds - and we are looking at a trillion crowns - to put this draw at risk by no one even trying to discuss it with the European Commission. How can a group of Members put forward such a proposal? That's what the government has to do. Of course, it would be nice if we really put those political animosities behind us, because we have some experience, we also know how to change it, improve it in the ministry. We perceive that the minister is there as a poor solo player and that it is inappropriate. But the way it's presented, it's wrong. It's not discussed with anyone, there's a lot of mistakes, and that's what I wanted to respond to. And to my dear colleague. Well, it's hard. Today, in the law, there was a maximum of two political deputys to do political work, representing the minister. You put an unlimited number of them in there, without an agenda. No agenda! I don't know what these people are gonna do when there's seven, eight of them, when you also have the head of the section. But let's stop arguing with the microphone, we can sit down. I'd really like to think about it, return it to the government, sit down, and really make the law, I don't want to say it to perfection, I don't think it's possible, but it's just some really effective... We all see the need to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u31	Thank you very much for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is President Alena Schillerová, Robert králíček and Berenika Peštová will prepare. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'll tell you what knowledge I'm talking to. I speak with knowledge not only of the former minister, of the government, but of the long-time clerk, because my previous practice, whether the Deputy Minister or even before in various positions, was strictly official. It was the Civil Service. However, I also speak with the knowledge of a man who worked in the Government's Legislative Council for seven years on the Financial Law Commission. And when the Civil Service Act was being negotiated, we used to have a cross-cutting commission, and I remember this debate exactly whether the CEOs or whether to leave the political deputy. That's when the debate went on and ended the way it ended. I mean, with the experience I'm carrying, you need to change the law. The law is really problematic. This is probably not the best way to go through a classic commentary procedure. And I'll tell you another experience. I was such an anomalous in our government, and probably in this, if it were to compare, so was it. I didn't have any advisors, I was just leaning on Treasury officials. I could have had two so-called political deputies. I didn't take one place at all, then I canceled it, and I took one place by a lady who retired for old age reasons, she was a social specialist, and I wanted her to stay there, helping me with that social area. I'm very comfortable today with all the different debates we're having here. It means that I know in detail both from the inside and actually a little bit from the top of my practice of the action and this, what you're suggesting, will not work. Indeed, as my colleague Klára Dostálová said, these people will be sitting there in some way, creating a kind of better-paid and secured apparatus for the minister. I understand that because he can feel like such a thorn abandoned in there right now, but it won't work. [[President: Madam President, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u33	Thank you very much. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is a Member Robert králíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u34	Madam Vice-President, I would respond to Mr Berki. I just want to ask politely, it seems to me that he only humiliated the debate with Klára to the fact that Klára thinks that the political deputy is a political newsstand. [[11.10 hours]] I will ask specifically because I had, or I think I understood her debate, so please just answer me how the political deputy will force the Chief Executive to work with the priorities of the political deputy, or the minister, if he has no authority, he has no power to influence his work, so how will he communicate with him? And how's he gonna choose who's gonna pick the headmaster? I mean, I want to work with a team as a political deputy, so you're gonna have to put in some kind of tender. How will the political deputy judge his work, the chief executive, if he's not in the structure? I think it was these questions that Klára Dostálová asked, or she pointed out in the novel because it was about the job and the structure. The point is not that, of course, if you put 20 instead of two political representatives there, we can talk about it, but these questions here are specific. How can he, in theory, act as a superior in the hierarchy of the Chief Executive if he's not in the structure? So the comment and the effort of the selection process, as well as the political deputy, was to fit in with the structure and have a direct impact on the award of priorities, the work and the evaluation of the Chief Executive's work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Let me remind you once again that if you address the Members, it is through the President. Mrs Berenika Peštová is the other one who is on the verdict. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u36	Thank you for the floor. In fact, the big part of what my previous speaker just said is what I was trying to explain to you. And this, as you say, Mr President, through Madam President, that the Deputys are there to work for the minister and it is his team - indeed, here we have a consensus, I have absolutely no problem with that, but I have a problem with what you said was that the Ministry is political or, respectively, fulfilling the will of the political direction, but only in a certain part. Like the section I was talking about, of course, we also have the Department of Public Administration, which is where administrative proceedings are conducted. It's not just that the Ministry is fulfilling the Minister's ideas, it's not like that at all. We have a delegation to the edge and we control the regions, we methodically manage the regions, so maybe it was my section's contents. And now you're saying that the work I've been doing as a deputy professor is now going to be a political deputy and someone's going to be chief executive. And I return with the donkey bridge to what my previous speaker said: How are you going to do that? How are you gonna do that? It's not easy. You, in essence, want to be a politician in charge of a civil servant who is to serve as a civil servant. It's not easy - if it's gonna be through the Secretary of State? But you just can't read that out of the material. What's it gonna be? Are you going to follow the administrative rules, or how, if you want to initiate some procedure with a reporter who doesn't do his job, whose evaluation went wrong and you have to do those actions? How's this gonna work? Will it be on the orders of a political deputy, or will the Chief Executive be doing it? You see, there are nuances you don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u37	Thank you for keeping time. We have one final point in fact at this point, Mr Richard Brabec. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u38	Thank you for the floor. I, above all, want to apologize to Mr Berki. 'Cause we just happened to have my friend Honza Birke here, and he wasn't bowing again. So it's such a nice Berki, Birke, but I'm gonna bow you down with great pleasure. So, by your means and without your means, Madam President, I will bow you down, so I apologize once again. But actually - I am surprised that there is one minister, the Minister of Transport, in the debate on a proposal that concerns the government, and I was convinced that the ministers would come to hear it, because this is about what the deputy ministers would be like, what they would be like to have, but I don't see any great interest here. Yeah, well, there are the submitters -- I'm going back to the fact that it's really very weird, and she's already said it here, Klára Dostálová, how it's designed, given what it's all about. Maybe I can't even imagine that we'd dare to do something like this before, and we'd certainly be under a lot of pressure. I completely agree with Minister Blažek, the Minister of Justice, that - and we all agreed on this - that the reason for that change, the accelerated amendment to the Service Act, was indeed under the pressure of drawing European funds. And even I say clearly from my eight-year experience or almost eight-year experience at the Ministry, the law no doubt deserves a change. But all the more I would expect it to be here in the presence of those who are primarily concerned or very concerned, i.e. ministers, and it will also be really discussed as a government proposal with all the processes and procedures that should logically be, that is, it will pass through the Government's Legislative Council, it will be in the interreort, and that is something that then gives me the impression that it was sewn with a hot needle, or that there is even fear that the consensus would not be at interreort level, and that is why it is the path of least resistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u39	Thank you for keeping time. We have another factual point with which Mr Jan Berki is reporting. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u40	Just in a hurry, it wasn't a complaint. I know my last name doesn't have to bend, which is why I'm just pointing out that it's bowing. And please don't confuse former Member Birk. And now it's just a matter of fact for my colleague Peštová, through you: I didn't say that there was only the political will, but I felt that on the contrary you were building it, that there was only the state, so we made it clear that there were both these activities. As far as some questions are concerned -- well, when there's no reporter, that's what the structure's for. That's not gonna be handled by the deputy at this point, it's gonna be handled by his closest boss, whether he's doing his homework or not. And that's where I think there's no problem. The driving is just there, and if we're asking how the political deputy runs the section or doesn't drive it, then we can even talk about different models. I can imagine it's still through the Secretary of State. After all, the analogy from the cities is very similar. You also have sectional deputies, but they're not really superiors to the union and department, and that's what happens through the office secretary. I don't think that's really the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u41	Thank you for keeping time. I note at this point that this was the last factual point, so we are going back - or we are in a general debate, but after factual remarks, and at this point, the President of the ODS club, Mr Marek Benda, is with priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I merely used - Mrs Peštová sits here, who has taught us repeatedly how she knows the administrative rules and how long she has been in the Ministry as an expert deputy, and then she accidentally ended up in the Chamber of Deputies as an ANO Member, but that is what happens. I would just like to recall the Rules of Procedure of this House. The Member may refer to a factual remark which responds to the course of the debate. A procedural proposal relating to the way in which a item of the programme is discussed shall also be regarded as a factual remark. It cannot, however, apply factual opinions on the issue under consideration. I know that it is extremely difficult for the President to assess in advance what Members will do. But I would ask all Members, especially in those in fact, for a certain degree of self-control. Real points are not meant to be used for this, and it is from both sides - Mrs Peštová has spoken four times, Mr Berki too, which I regretted, some twice, some three times - in order to lead a shoot-out over factual remarks and to tell who has ever experienced what in his life in a factual remark, or to apply factual positions. I know this is a little more fun than the debate, but it leads to the fact that those people who are actually enrolled in the debate and who have something to say and not their personal experiences are not getting to the point. And then no wonder the ministers don't exactly sit here, because I think if something really wasn't enriching for the ministers and their administration, it was the last half hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u43	Thank you, and your speech raised a point of fact, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u44	I would like to thank Mr Benda for this beautiful excursion, because he is here much longer than I am, I am learning, but I am really trying to respond with factual remarks to something that has been said before me. Unfortunately, I can't respond, but I wanted to respond to you. The fact that I'm in the YES movement, we're not gonna blame ourselves here, because you mentioned my life as some kind of field trip, that I've been a deputy for eight years, an expert deputy, and then I showed up here for the YES movement. But we're not gonna blame ourselves for who's on which side and who's wearing what jersey, I don't think they belong here, and it was pointless. Thank you and have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u45	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, it was the last point of fact. We are returning to the general debate, where Mrs Zuzana Ožanová is duly signed up at the moment. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just sorry that right now I would welcome the Prime Minister to be here because I'm going to mention him in my speech. The petitioners state the shortcomings they see in the current legislation and declare that they want to create the prerequisites for even deeper depoliticisation and professionalisation of the state service, to motivate civil servants to further professional development and to improve the quality of the service carried out and to strengthen the responsibilities of the superiors. This declaration and the presentation of the bill itself in the form of a parliamentary proposal are contrary to the Government's programming declaration and the legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration will be submitted by standard legislative means. On 12 May of this year, a few days ago, I interviewed the Prime Minister about ignoring the government's programming statement. Allow me to quote: "After a few months of ruling, your government ignores its programming statement. I quote the point that I mean: "We will increase the quality of legislation. We will carefully consider each new regulation on the basis of an analysis of the expected impacts. Legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration shall be submitted in a standard legislative manner. Before submitting them to the Government, experts within the Government Legislative Council shall comment thereon.' My question is: why is this item of the government's programming declaration ignoring the coalition? Within the supplementary question referring to the Parliamentary Bill on Conflict of Interest, press 110, the Prime Minister said that the press was loaded before the Government's programming declaration was announced. This may be a bad joke, but the very next day, on May 13, the current press was sent to the Members by chance, and the government commented on it on 18 May. I would just like to point out that this time, a genuine parliamentary proposal was tabled only after the Government's programming declaration has been submitted and the regulation of the Staff Act is included in the Government's programming declaration among the priorities. A week after the government's interpellation regarding a specific programming statement, the government ignored its statement again. In principle, I am okay with the parliamentary proposals, although I, too, am in favour of not very frequent changes to legislation, as the representative of the petitioner knows. What really bothers me is that somebody's making a statement, and then they're really ignoring it. Why are you declaring something that you then ignore? Maybe there's a mistake in me after all, because I'm taking advantage of reading. Or is the government relying on no one to read her programming statement? Unfortunately, there are some who read. Recapitulate timeline: 12. 5. 2022 interpelation on ignoring the declared standard legislative path, 13. 5. 2022 distribution of the Parliamentary Bill of Five-Calice, 18. 5. the Government's agreed opinion with the Member's draft law. Designed efficiency 1. 1. 2023, which is not according to the explanatory memorandum on cross-competence and selection procedures and must be announced gradually and prudently. The law simply does not deal with the fact that, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, I have already stated in my intelligence report - the discretion and gradualness of the announcement of these proceedings. I'll get back to the previous debate a little bit. I didn't want to interfere with the facts anymore. I really think that we should sit on this together, that there should be consensus just because every political representation should not change these laws and there should be some stability to the legal environment. I'm not talking about stability right now at the authorities, I'm talking about the law being unchanged for at least a while. And I really want to touch, through Madam President, what Mr Berki said. In fact, he repeated several times only the fulfilment of political will, but lastly he admitted that it was not only the fulfilment of political will, but also the performance of the state administration, so I did not interfere any further. But let us remember - it is the same as in the villages, because most of you know this situation, especially at my right hand. The mayor is the mayor, but he may not be able to influence the misdemeanor or the building process, as he would commit a crime. It is also with the fulfilment of political will at ministries. Part of the ministry, of course, fulfils the political will, but part of the ministry simply deals with administrative proceedings, misdemeanors, and makes a clear statement on such matters. We would hardly want Minister Kupek to do the political will if anyone gets a driver's license or not. That means there were two explanations. Perhaps both sides did not express themselves exactly, but I too believe that there is a need for a change in this law, on which we agreed, as I listened, across the political spectrum. However, there are some minor contradictions that, I think, could possibly be eliminated by further negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u47	Thank you. Mrs Iveta Štefanová is another party to the general debate. I'll ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the amendment to the Civil Service Act. The ruling coalition in the past has called for the depoliticalization of the state service. However, this amendment proposal is rather a step towards its politicalization. The proposal newly introduces a five-year term of office for certain civil service functions. For the continuity and stability of the state service, the possibility of exchanging up to practically the entire management section every five years does not serve much according to the party jurisdiction of the current minister, as permitted by this proposal. However, existing workers will be able to apply repeatedly and re-apply to the tender. The new selection procedures also allow the so-called external experts to enter. Expanding the range of potential applicants for public service posts is certainly a step in the right direction, but I cannot agree that professional practice should be counted since the completion of the required education, and it has been added up all this time. If our aim is to increase the expertise of civil service workers, it is necessary for this professional practice to be as topical as possible. The practice completed, for example, 20 years ago, when a candidate has not worked in the field since then, is certainly not equal to the practice for example in the last five years, i.e. knowledge of current terrain and modern agenda. This will only lead to a reduction of public service expertise. What is another problem is that according to the proposal, some executives will not be appointed for only five years, but for an indefinite period. In practice, this will mean that a worker who does not defend his post in a tender will remain in the civil service and the state will look for another position for him for up to six months, for which he will receive 80 per cent of his current salary. And if he doesn't find a suitable location for him, he'll be receiving a considerable severance payment from the state. This unfortunate wording in this proposal will in practice only mean increasing the number of people in the civil service that the State will pay. [[11.30 hours]] I also find no advantage in extending the number of political deputy ministers, which in practice is actually a kind of promotion of the minister's advisors to the Deputy Minister's posts, but, of course, with the salaries of the Deputys and other advantages such as the car, the driver and so on, who, according to the proposed change, will not manage the individual sections, and therefore are practically without a substantial agenda, and especially without accountability. All of this will lead to a further increase in the number of people in the civil service and to a senseless increase in the financial cost to them. The proposal further changes the section's specialised deputy directors to the head of the section, who, according to this proposal, will be able to represent the minister in the meeting, including in the House, which is contrary to the Constitution, specifically with Article 3 (2) of the Constitution. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 Constitution of the Czech Republic. Therefore, the SPD supports the proposal by Mrs Dostálová, which means the proposal to return the proposal for completion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Hrnčíř is another person who is duly enrolled in the general debate. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a few comments on the proposed amendment to the Civil Service Act. I'd like to take a turn at first. Even before the elections, the parties of the current government coalition were famous for a sharp criticism of the then, according to them, the vast state apparatus. SPOLU coalition representatives promised slimming, cuts and savings. The post-election reality, however, was the emergence of three brand new ministries, the acceptance of literally an army of officials, and thus the need for an extra half a billion for the Office of the Government from the state budget of the Czech Republic. So much for promised savings. The proposed amendment to the Civil Service Act makes me feel that the same spirit will continue. I acknowledge that the very rigid Civil Service Act, which in its time has concreted the position of state officials of the then government coalition of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, no doubt needs a change, only the change must not be worse. If I start from the end of the proposed amendment, this removes the maximum number of deputy government members so far allowed. So far, each member of the government may have a maximum of two deputies. According to this amendment, the government's number of deputy ministers is now unlimited, and I note that they are essentially not supposed to have any agenda under them, and all they can do is consult with the minister. Dear colleagues of the government coalition, can you please explain this to me? After all, when you criticized too many civil servants, I would expect a reduction in the number of deputies from two to one, not that you will completely eliminate the mandatory maximum of the deputies. Am I to understand that two Deputys are not enough for members of your government? How is that compatible with your philosophy of slimming the government, if I may even ask? Another problematic section, I believe, is the newly proposed section 28a, according to which in some cases the need for an interview before a selection committee is no longer necessary. Thus, after a prior agreement with his superiors, his supervisor chooses his new subordinate directly. The claimed control of independence and impartiality in competitions is not really possible. However, as the most problematic issue, I see the total elimination of almost all the legal conditions for qualification, compulsory practice and the length of practice of persons participating in the selection procedure for senior positions in the civil service. The completely incomprehensible removal of a two-way tender system, where only persons with a corresponding rather strict qualification and a precise length of practice were included in the first round, directly offers the question why this is the case? After all, leaders should be filled by persons with appropriate experience, qualifications and experience. The replacement of strict criteria only by the age limit and, in essence, by a ridiculous requirement of both the length and nature of the practice so far, encourages speculation as to whether, for the next time in the selection procedure, the place of qualification will be a rather satisfactory party competence. The amendment of newly introduced free use of service cars with drivers for some functions only proves how the government coalition with savings in the state apparatus really means it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u51	Thank you, too. The next party to the general debate is Mr Richard Brabec. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u52	You don't even have to ask, Madam Vice-President, I'd love to. I've always loved coming here, and I believe I'll keep it. So that my colleague Benda, who isn't here right now, I'm sorry, because he would definitely appreciate it, so I signed up for the debate so there's not, let's just say, a fight about whether or not this is a factual point. All of us who have been here for some time, and the new ones who are here freshly, they will know that, of course, we are confronted with the speeches that we said a year, two, three, four years ago, and how many times we cannot be surprised what was actually said and what is quite a sharp contradiction to what we are saying now. So I would only take the liberty - I chose from the full list of speeches that were made about four years ago to the Service Act, to the amendment to the Service Act, that was sometimes in 2018, just for the sake of interest, to see how those roles turned out. It's informative. My colleague Bartošek - I quote: "Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Well, basically, it needs to be realized that this amendment was drafted under the direct order of the Prime Minister in a demise with a single objective, and that is to loosen up the law of service so that it can be more effectively disposed of by uncomfortable officials, because almost all the amendments that are in this law are directed towards that objective. And it can be said that if the amendment is approved in its proposed form, we are returning to the toughest politicalization of the state administration." I stress again for those who have come in the meantime or in the course, so this is from Mr Bartošek's statement in the last House, about sometime in April 2018. "The position of the leaders in particular becomes so uncertain that massive cleansing can and will probably occur after any change of the minister or with the arrival of a new government. Basically, in practice, it means destabilizing the administration's performance as we knew it. This is mainly used by the newly set evaluation, which can be started as needed in the quotes of a member of the government several times a year. The position of state secretaries is greatly weakened by this amendment. This amendment completely suppresses the order of career and allows so-called experts to come from practice under very favourable conditions and with a minimum proven practice. The declared consultation in Brussels, which was allegedly attended by Minister Dostálová, resulted in the supposedly being accepted by the Head of the DG Secretariat and told her that he would consult and let her know. It means, it's not that these things are prearranged and we know they'll be approved. After consulting several interested lawyers who have called this amendment a legislative paskvil, I join the motion to reject this bill." Well, we could imagine this right now, of course, coming from the opposition today, but oddly enough, that's what the coalition representative said four years ago. And I would sign a number of things, but if it were applied to this novel right now. That means, we see, of course, how extremely uncertain it is to always comment on something that can come back to us as a boomerang, and then we are confronted with what has been said. But again, we can see clearly here that if today's coalition, in the past of the opposition, has spoken about the threat of the harshest politicalization of the state administration and the weakening of the service law and other things that have not been sufficiently consulted in Brussels, I am talking about this being in a completely opposite form in a few years, and so today we consider it a crucial step forward. And again, I say again that I am certainly not against the regulation and amendment of the service law in a number of parameters that have really clearly proved in practice that they are very complicated and that they serve - or unfortunately served - to a certain concreteization of the state administration and to a very complicated replacement of people who have not worked well. And, as Minister Blažek rightly said, the protection of officials was indeed much higher than the legislator could have imagined at the beginning and rather than he would have wanted. But now it's kind of extreme to extreme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u53	Thank you, too. I have two applications filed here at the moment, Mr Milan Feranc and Mr Klára Dostálová, but Mr Marek Benda, President of the MP's club, is in favour. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u54	Thank you. I felt that the debate was over, so I wanted to respond to some of the things that were said here, but I will start with two apologies for myself. Firstly, with an apology, Madam President, which I almost tried to mislead. He is right that the appellant does not have the right of priority and that he has given me the floor because I am the President of the Club of Deputies, not the appellant. That's the first apology. A second apology to my colleague Brabco. I went out in the hallway for a little while to pursue my passion, because it's been an hour and a half, and I need to stop every once in a while. And now, on what is being said here in the debate, two essential points, and I would ask my colleagues not to remind me again. First of all, the bill that was discussed and approved here in 2014 was a draft law of Parliament, it was not a government bill, and many of you today criticize it so much that it was parliamentary, then it was there and, in favour of the proposal of Mr Sobotka and others who brought it as a draft law of Parliament, and it was the new Civil Service Act, voted. So don't blame me completely for putting this on the table as an MP's bill. The same applies to a bit of a rapporteur who blames the government for something. I would like to point out that the government corresponds to the Chamber of Deputies, not the Chamber of Deputies to the Government, which means that even government Members are not bound by the government's programming declaration, as much as possible by the coalition agreement, and if the government has not brought such a bill, it has been brought to the Members. We think it's more reasonable, because it's perfectly clear that if it goes into those official circles, the beloved officials will boil it into such a stew that we'll never get out of it. The second question concerns the consultation with the Commission. Now I've checked with the Secretary of State, so by 2020, consultation was mandatory - amendments to the Civil Service Act. It is not mandatory at the moment, it is only necessary to respect the principles set out by the Commission, but there is no mandatory consultation, so don't blame us for the absence of any consultation, there is no need for such consultation. I will then respond to material reservations in the final word, if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your performance brought up two factual points. The first is signed in by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Radek Vondráček will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with my colleague Benda that the Government really responds to the House and that I have criticised that the Government's programming declaration is being ignored by the fact that a parliamentary bill is being presented on a matter which is contained in the priorities of the Government's programming declaration, but since this parliamentary bill has been submitted by five political club presidents, I believe that the Government's programming declaration should not be just a piece of paper for them. But, of course, Members have the right to make their proposals, just - you know, it was enough not to have it in the government's programming statement, that would have been enough, but while you have it there, follow it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u57	Madam, thank you for your time. Mr Radek Vondráček is another one who is signed up with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u58	Thank you for the floor. I will not put the debate in jeopardy in any time, only in response to Mr Benda - ano, we spent a beautiful summer of 2014 with the service law, it was a parliamentary proposal, but you also gave us the right to eat it up, and I'm sure it can be found in the tapestry, when you were beating us up, that it was definitely not a parliamentary proposal. In our defense, we were brand new back then. I do not know if this can be said of you, colleague, through the President, you remember the most here. So I take it friendly, we were new, but you guys should know by now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u59	Thank you so much for keeping time. Now that was the last point of fact. I have announced two applications, but the application has priority, so at this point I will ask Mrs. Berenika Peštová, Mr. Milan Feranec and Mr. Klára Dostálová, who are logged in from the post. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u60	Hello again. So I duly applied to not be accused of taking advantage of factual remarks, even though I tried to respond to my previous speakers. I do not know if Mr Michálek is already here, through Madam President, because, of course, I have done my job and I have found his statements which have been aimed at legislative procedures, and now I would like to introduce the House to them. So one of the beautiful statements is that "intermediate commentary as it works today" - obviously meant the government that was before this government - includes only a part of the organisations concerned by the relevant legislation. Dozens of organizations whose word is now ignored in lawmaking will now be able to express themselves openly about legislation and thus participate in its creation. It will be crucial for the citizen to find in the final report all proposals and expressions of relevant organisations. The Open House" - which is the platform that was set up by the Pirates just to avoid abuse of the fact that there are no legislative procedures as it should - "is an application that will fundamentally make the process of adopting laws transparent before the adoption of the Act on lobbying regulation" believes the pirát. Of course, in this action, the pirát continued and held a beautiful seminar that took place on October 10, 2011, where, of course, they acted to make sure that the legislative procedure was not abused, so that the legislative procedure should be followed as it should be, and there was no such admission of pasculi - these are their words, taking pasculi - so that they were just starting it and doing as it should be done, it means that every law will be created on the individual ministries concerned, it will be dealt with by the ordinary legislative process, which means both internal and inter-sector commentary proceedings, it will be beautifully given to eKLEP, each commentary place will be able to express itself, everything will be properly settled and then presented at the Legislative Council of the various committees - and, of course, we all know what committee is there, whether it is an compatibility committee, the RIA commission of administrative law - to which should go to all the commissions, and each committee will take a position on this, either positive or with exceptions, and we will have to the opinion, and then we will have to be able to work on the board for that will of course on a specific advice. We are also talking, of course, about how deeply it is affected by the law, whether it requires the substantive intention of the law, that is, it goes in two ways, so this procedure, which I said, first you go with a substantive intention, then it comes back and makes a paragrafo text, which again goes in the same circle. So that's what the pirát were pushing for, and that's what they said had to happen. I will go back to the seminar that took place, where Professor Jiřina Jílková also took part - we all know that this is the lady who is on the RIA Committee at the Government Legislative Council - whose criticism also focused on a high proportion of exceptions, when the laws are not under control, she quoted that there were 70 exceptions about a year straight, and the risks of parliamentary bills. It pointed out that the basic prerequisite for better legislation is greater demand for politicians for thorough preparation of laws according to RIA methodologies. [[11.50 hours]] Then, of course, I took the legislative rules, which you all know, and I looked into part five, where the preparation of the Government's position on drafts of a law, which is not a representative of a government. I looked into the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 states: "Before drawing up the draft Government opinion, the President of the Legislative Council of the Government will ask through an electronic library" - the eKLEP, as I said - "other members of the government, or the head of their central government bodies, whose scope relates to the content of the bill, to comment within the time limit set by it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Three sentences, second." I'm wondering if this happened at all. That is, a parliamentary proposal has been tabled, and if Prime Minister Šalomoun asked not the various ministers - all ministers had to do so because all ministers are affected, all ministers have government under them. So I'd like to see those positions, not one opinion from the Minister of Finance. I would like to see all the positions of all the ministries, as she has said about this. Unfortunately, I did not find this in the presentation or, respectively, the explanatory memorandum. So I would like to ask the petitioner to tell me these opinions, as the various ministries have said about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u61	Thank you, too. So another person who is enrolled in the general debate from the point of view is Mr Milan Feranec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, just a few comments. I was deputy before the service law was effective, then I was deputy of a member of the government, or that political deputy, so I think I know a little bit about it. The Service Act certainly had a lot of shortcomings, I'm sure, but I'll follow up on what my colleague Brabec said. When a government amendment was submitted in 2018, which, in some way, maybe cosmetic, modified somehow - tightened up - this law, here by today's translators, was a terrible hell of a threat to the politicalization of the state administration. I suppose we remember that. Then the Senate didn't approve, it came back to us, and we've been listening for a very long time. Those adjustments, which were subsequently in 2018, were only symbolic and symbolic against what is being presented today. Moreover, the essence presented today is, of course, an unlimited number of government officials, whether we call it the political ones, the compulsory re-compete of all current directors, because they are all over five years old - the amendment has been in 2015. This is a brutal politicalization of the Service Act. I know the ODS has always had a problem with the service bill, I'll take it. I'm just a little bothered by the fake of some of today's translators, who criticized small adjustments in 2018. So it's just when some of them said that the law of service is losing meaning at all -- that's in the Stenoprotocols, that -- so after today's approval, you don't want to just cancel it? Because, indeed, such a major intervention in the functioning of the state administration is something unimaginable. But it's the law of the House, I'd just like things to be called real names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u63	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up one point of fact. I would like Mr Jan Volný to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u64	Colleagues, colleagues, I'm going to be very short. I would have signed what my colleague Feranec here said, but on the other hand, I would like to commend Minister Blažek, because he said it really objectively and correctly. You've got 108, we've said what we wanted here, you raise your hand like this, and the service bill will be adjusted. I would only beg - and I hope that this will not result in increasing civil servants, officials, because I have experienced hell with my colleague Honza Skopeček, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura and others in television debates, when they blamed me and counted on how much the increase in civil servants was. I've always explained to them that civil servants are also teachers, soldiers, policemen, firemen. But they're always civil servants and civil servants - so I'm worried, and maybe entitled not to really be another increase in civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Klára Dostálová is now duly registered from the post. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u66	Thank you very much. I see, of course, that I do not have much time left, but I think that really by the fact that the debate is somehow coming to an end, even if we do not finish today, so let me just respond to the translator, because the principles that the European Commission wanted are three. The first is professionalization, depoliticization and stabilization. So you have successfully succeeded in this amendment that you are not fulfilling either, which is probably what the European Commission will be looking at. I expect a reaction in this spirit to come. Professionalization, when half the house changes every five years, is really up for gratitude. Depoliticization, when you're making a new floor of political deputies, which, in some way, will influence the state apparatus - I don't know how if they don't have an agenda. Stabilization, of course, isn't possible when the years are actually put there the way they are. Anyway, I just wanted that as a reaction. But I think today, as we finish at 12 o'clock, it might deserve to say goodbye to Mr Bartoš's speech to the Chamber of Deputies of April 2018. Let me read it because I think we really need to read what we're saying to each other, and then in four years, we say something completely different about the microphone. But judge for yourselves. Mr Bartoš, April 2018: "Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have watched in the previous period how the Civil Service Act was passed, and we believe that this law should be corrected, on a number of points, to be amended. What we do not believe, however, is that we should approach the amendment of this law now, at the moment when we have already seen fundamental personnel changes in ministries in the framework of systemization and Christmas periods. We see changes in the leading positions of important institutions in the Czech Republic and now, in fact, individual offices, where at least the officials - and I am not talking about whether they are the best at the moment or not - have certain protection thanks to the applicable Civil Service Act. In some way, they have made it more effective to the possibility of, I would say, the harm of their exchange." So much current Minister Bartoš, formerly Mr Bartoš of April 2018. The Member continues: "I merely repeat that, at this time, when we have more important legislation, I do not think it is right to open this law and try to make it more effective, at least according to the rhetoric of the representatives of the government, to give it better passability to make everything work dynamically within the framework of the sub-ordination." [[12.00 hours]] In his speech of April 2018, the then Member Mr Kupka also responded: "I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as the petitioner is now presenting the law, there are hidden traps in him. It says, for example, that it will only be possible to organise selection procedures in two ways. There would be nothing to do about it, in the second round it is possible to admit other applicants, not only those who are inside the government, but also those who are from outside. But he's changing one crucial thing. It is no longer a duty to accept in the first round, if there are enough eligible candidates, so choose one. In fact, after finishing in this form, which the Ministry would now suggest would be a bit of a shadowy procedure. It would really be a competition game, and it would still lead the government to choose who they want. So we upgraded it, and now we have only one round of competition so that we don't have to worry about these things." The Member then continued in April 2018: "In view of the fact that we are still in a situation where the government still has no confidence, I consider approval in this situation of such a law with a serious impact on the state administration simply as indefensible. But I would very much like for the shortcomings that I just indicated, and there are more of them, so that the law will be returned to the petitioner to recast, so that serious problems can be eliminated." I have the same concerns, we have taken the liberty of presenting it as a government, you have upgraded it again, you are presenting it as a parliamentary proposal, so of course it is very problematic and I believe that we have agreed here that we are prepared for the law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u67	Madam, I must interrupt you at this moment. It's 12 o'clock, I have to stop discussing this House press. I am handing over the proceedings to Karel Havlíček, because at 12 o'clock we have a firm House press 217, which is a government bill on special reasons for stopping the execution of the amendment of related laws at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-003-078.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to continue,
