ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u1	112. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Before we approach them, I would like to read the apologies from the Chamber of Deputies. First of all he apologizes to members of the government: Martin Baxa from 14.30 for working reasons, Mikuláš Bek until 16.30 for working reasons, Pavel Blažek from 13 hours for working reasons, Petr Gazdík from 13 hours for working reasons, Anna Hubáčková - working reasons, Marian Jurečka - working reasons, Martin Kupka within 16 hours - working reasons, Helena Langšádlová from 15.30 - working reasons, Jan Lipavský - foreign trip, Zdeněk Nekula - working reasons, Vít Rakušan from 14.30 - working reasons, Michal Šalomoun until 11.30 - working reasons, until 13 hours again for working reasons, Vlastimil Válek until 11.30 - working reasons, Jozef Síkela from 17.45 for working reasons. I also apologize to Mr Josef Bělica, between 14.30 and 2345 for reasons of work, then Mr Roman Bělor apologizes, between 14.30 and 18.00 for reasons of work, David Pražák between 15 and 19.00 for reasons of work, and Oldřich Černý between 14.30 and 23.45 for reasons of work, David Štolpa apologises from 14.30 to 19 - to the end of the day of the hearing - for reasons of work and the last Mr Antonín Tesařík, from 14.00 to the end of the day of the hearing for health reasons. So those were the things we had to do. And as I have already announced, we are at the point of oral intervention, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala, or to the Government of the Czech Republic, between 14.30 and 16, to other members of the government from 16 to 18 hours. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will begin. I would now like to give the floor to the first person to be drawn, Mrs Karla Maříková, to present oral questioning to the Prime Minister. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, I am being approached by a number of citizens who are drowning solid fuels, that at present many coal warehouses no longer have briquettes, or only in very limited quantities, because Germany supplies its market in particular and only brings to us what is left of them. The same can be expected with gas, of course. Germany will only gas those containers that work for German consumers. Fear of lack of gas and wood from the east will lead to higher demand for wood raw materials in our country. The barking calamity has also ended, the new mining is significantly limited and the fuel wood has also increased to twice as much. This will also lead to record prices of wood chips and sawdust, which are crucial for the production of pellets. I wonder how you want to deal with this, Prime Minister. In many cases people will not have on expensive energy and also solid fuels, if they ever will, and of course all this will make absolutely everything more expensive. When and how will you deal with this? Do you not limit, for example, exports of timber abroad, as they do in Germany, first supply their domestic market and then solve what they take abroad? How long will it take you to take action? Wouldn't it be time for domestic politics to be addressed instead of Ukraine's policy, or do you want the Czech Republic to be as miserable as it was in Ukraine before the war? The Czech Republic is dependent on everything, and instead of voting for diplomacy policy, you are doing everything you can to make your actions impact on the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u3	Thank you for respecting the time and presentation of the interview and I would now like to ask the Prime Minister, Mr Petr Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am greeting all those who are watching the interview today, and I will now answer Mrs Maříková's question. Madam, we are, of course, watching closely the issue of solid fuels. We are also following closely the development of their prices, paying due attention to this and also taking the necessary steps to make the situation easier for citizens, which I will inform you of or which I will remind you of. It should be said that price increases, for example, in the case of coal cannot be completely predicted, it cannot be estimated - and this is also said by the experts involved - another increase in prices this year. As you know, large customers are individual contracts with individual pricing, possibly with an upward pattern, and it is simply not possible to estimate developments for coal and similar commodities at the moment. What you're right about is that the demand for solid fuels in households is growing. In the case of brown coal, it is clear, or is the assumption that demand will be saturated, it is the domestic source of North Bohemia mines Sev.en Energy, so this demand will be saturated here. The situation is worse with coal. On the contrary, here is the assumption that there will be a problem with collateral in the medium term. Supplies are largely dependent on Poland and this, in turn, has to do with what is happening in connection with the war in Ukraine. As far as the supply of industry is concerned, according to the mining plan and existing supplies, compliance with the contractual relations that are now concluded is envisaged. This means that the needs of the market should be satisfied here, and I think that is important, good news. Of course, we must realise that coal is essentially a global commodity. Of course, the price depends on various things - transport costs, the type of coal, the purpose for which it is suitable, whether it is for energy, the steel industry and so on. Coal prices - unfortunately, that is true, in Europe, not in the Czech Republic, but across Europe they rise to many years of record, coal reserves are the lowest in several years. And because of the Russian-Ukrainian crisis and, of course, as a result of the sanctions on Russia, the situation here is getting even more complicated. Coal is important in the Czech Republic because it is the only way to replace gas supplies in the short term. The power plants would still burn coal, some of the steps are ready. The Dětmarovice power plant and heat plant will burn coal longer than it intended, thereby ensuring greater energy security. And so I could go on. Of course, even though I mentioned sanctions here, the fifth package of EU sanctions is aimed, among other things, at coal from the Russian Federation, and there are consequences because we, as you know, have dampened coal mining in the past in Ostrava. This increases the dependence of the Czech Republic on imports and it comes mainly from Poland. From Russia, the Czech Republic imports only about 7 percent of coal directly. However, the fact that coal will not be imported from Russia may also have a secondary effect on supplies from Poland. However, the drop in imports of Russian coal can be replaced and should not be a bigger problem. [[14.40 hours]] As for what we do for citizens, I just want to remind you of a few concrete steps. We agreed to postpone the deadline for the ban on the operation of old coal boilers by two years to September 1, 2024. It's in the Air Protection Act. The government wants to make it easier for households affected by inflation and price growth. According to our estimate, this will make it easier - and this is not a small impact - for 150,000 households who still haven't traded the old boiler for a new one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will now ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? I see you do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, it's nice that you're watching this as it is on the market, but I checked it this morning, and there's already a limited amount of coal in one of the coal warehouses today, when the waiting list is needed for briquettes and coal, and the amount is very limited. So I'm wondering, if he doesn't, how are you going to deal with this? What's the heat on these people? They just don't have the financial resources to switch to another energy source. I wonder how you're going to deal with wood, that we're exporting it in large quantities abroad. If it's not time for us to deal with our domestic market, and, of course, when we have a surplus, we will export. As far as sanctions are concerned, I would just mention that the sanctions are very toothless, because in the finals, of course, we will pay for them. Russia can do without Europe, but we probably can't without their resources. Of course, many experts share this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u7	Thank you for your time and I will ask for the Prime Minister's reply, Mr Petr Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u8	Yes, as I've already told the Member, not only are we watching it, but we're doing something. When it comes to brown coal, there I informed you that the demand will be met, followed. There is a risk for black coal, but we are dealing with Poland to avoid restricting its supplies, on the contrary, so that we have the necessary capacity. I will also discuss this with the Polish Prime Minister on my visit to Warsaw tomorrow. But it's about citizens, it's about how we help them. I've already informed you here, or I've reminded you of our decision in the case of pot subsidies. I would also add that it is possible to obtain up to 95 percent of the subsidy for the replacement of the boiler based on the decision of the government. For example, a four - member household whose income does not exceed 683 000 net will reach this amount. We also did that by adjusting the conditions for low-income households for boiler subsidies. In particular, there was an increase in the subsidy for the heat pump by CZK 50,000, i.e. to a total of CZK 180,000. At the same time, the time limit for support towards gas condensing boilers, including in the New Green Savings programme, enters into force. All of these measures that we have taken are socially sensitive. Households which consist purely of pensioners receiving a third-degree old-age or invalidity pension, as well as households receiving a housing allowance or supplement, are entitled to the grant automatically, the money may not be saved in advance. The subsidy will be possible on the basis of advance invoices. So here you can see from these specific cases and concrete decisions of our government that we have done a lot for citizens as well as in the field of solid fuels and their prices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u9	I thank the Prime Minister for answering the supplementary question. We're coming to another interpellation that was drawn with number two. At this moment, Mr Vladimír Zlínský will appear, Radek Koten will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u10	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I am being approached by citizens of our Republic who are afraid that they will be persecuted if they publicise information on various topics. How, then, will you inform citizens of what is and is not misinformation in order not to suppress freedom of speech, and how will you punish their creators and spreaders on the basis of intent or ignorance of the issue? I have one more question. In what way will the person who forbids misinformation and punishes its originators and spreaders be affected if, within a certain period of time, misinformation becomes true information? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u11	Thank you for keeping up with the time to present the interpellation. Now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, thank you for your question and for the opportunity to explain what misinformation is and what it means to spread them. I would quote experts here so that we all know what we're talking about and what this misinformation is. Thus, misinformation is considered to be false, false, false information aimed at influencing the judgment and opinion of an individual, more persons or an entire society in such a way as to give rise to the appearance of credibility and authenticity. Sometimes the aim is just to question the original information or its true value by pretending that there is an alternative truth. According to experts dealing with this issue, the concept of disinformation is, I quote: "The dissemination of deliberately false information, especially by state actors or their branches towards a foreign state or the media, in order to influence the decision-making or views of those who accept it. " It is remarkable - this appears in professional literature - that this concept today used internationally comes probably from Russian disinformation, which was first recorded in 1949. But I'm just adding that to the supplement. Of course, countries are also resisting misinformation based on how we understand misinformation and what misinformation is, and the Czech Republic must do so too. Russia's war, Russia's aggression in Ukraine, has brought us to the new stage of the disinformation war that we are facing, has long been faced by our citizens. It is a systematic and professional disinformation war, and it is, of course, accelerating and has to accelerate - it is our responsibility - some of the steps that the European countries and, of course, the Czech Republic are taking on this matter. I don't think anybody has to worry about being punished or how you put it in that question. That's not the point. The point is, however, that we have reasonable tools within strategic communication and the fight against hybrid threats to defend ourselves from misinformation. We're not alone in a fight against misinformation. The European Commission has called for access to Russian propaganda and disinformation means such as Sputnik or RT, which is actually happening. We need to move forward on this matter. The government can't, won't and won't forbid freedom of speech, we won't do anything like that. The government does not mind - of course, we welcome it - critical journalism, free expression of opinion, media that does not agree with government policy, we do not mind. But the state's duty is to defend itself from misinformation committed by Russia's government, which is directed towards our citizens. On the basis of the decisions of the associations of legal entities, the domain of some disinformation websites has been blocked. You know that has happened, and we, too, have decided to establish a government agent for media and disinformation in connection with the fight against misinformation at the end of March. On this basis, we want to look for ways to strengthen the role of quality and professional media and weaken the influence of disinformation and disinformation media. We do this in the form of certain campaigns. As you probably know, there has been a launch of the website Defence Ukraine, let us defend the Czech Republic, which is actually a practical example of how to combat misinformation. [[14.50 hours]] So, as you can see, it's not about punishing someone, don't spread fear, don't worry about people. Everyone can freely express their opinion, and so do a lot of people, and so do your members and your voters, and it's so good, but what's going on here is to fight a professionally-run disinformation war that another state in our territory is doing in its power interests, and that is, of course, something that needs to be faced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u13	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the honourable Member, does he still want to ask an additional question? Yes. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u14	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I must say that when I come before my constituents, I will not be able to explain it to them on the basis of this speech by the Prime Minister, what is and what is not misinformation, because they are asking me about the specific situations they are getting into, and they are afraid that they will be persecuted on the basis that they may have committed untruths or inaccuracies. Then I would like to point out that developments from misinformation to information are possible, because we have seen this, for example, on the issue of covid, when it was reported that vaccination solves the problem of covid, and in the end it was not entirely true. As far as blocking those domains, from my point of view, it was illegal without a court order, and I didn't see any evidence anywhere that would link these... [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time.]] ... domains with the influence of Russia or that they would be paid from Russia or controlled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u15	Thank you for asking the additional question and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u16	I think those who ask you may not - if they listened to me - be not only concerned, but they must be very clear about it. Of course, no one is persecuted for any opinion, and if you know such a case, tell me for sure. However, you did not ask for specific cases, Mr President, through Madam President. You've been asking about misinformation in general and what's at risk of spreading misinformation. I answered you very nicely and thoroughly, including what is misinformation, what is not misinformation and how our government is going against it. Our government is primarily moving against this through an active positive strategic campaign, our government is going against it by pointing out what misinformation is. And of course, it's not just the government, it's a lot of other organizations, it's against citizens who don't want to be exposed to misinformation. The situation isn't entirely trivial. Disinformation media intervention is high: 66 percent of people said that they had encountered misinformation, 12 percent to 28 percent replied that they believed individual misinformations that were mentioned in the research that were carried out, so this is quite a major intervention, an intervention in favour of a foreign state in the Czech Republic. And it would be irresponsible for you who apply to the national idea to defend national interests within the SPD, not to understand it. Here, the Czech Republic simply has to defend itself in a reasonable way. But please don't make this a threat to Czech citizens. They're safe. Of course, you're also spreading misinformation, your party. Here I could quote your President, who wrote on Twitter on 22 February that the SPD considers the current situation in Ukraine to be a consequence of the pressure of intelligence services under the baton of the US, Great Britain, some NATO states that are trying to start a war between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. That's typical misinformation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u17	Thank you. We're coming to another interpellation. I would like to ask Mr Radek Koten. Mr Karel Tureček will be prepared next. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u18	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, in connection with the unfulfilled gas reservoirs in the Czech Republic and with the capacity, I have now read in the publicly available media that gas reservoirs are already being filled. So my question is that there is some speculation that the German RWE wants to sell these magazines - because the magazines are not owned by the Czech Republic - and the two magazines owned by a group of Moravian oil mines are in private hands. I wanted to ask you if you are counting on the money that RWE will then demand if the government will buy these magazines for the Czech Republic. That's the first question. I also found that if the gas supplies were running as they run, and all the reservoirs that are in the Czech Republic would be filled at 75 percent just before the heat season. So I wanted to ask you how you are treated further, so whether we are still going to buy at market prices on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, because there are states such as Hungary, where the price of gas will not change for another five years. In our country, it changes quite dramatically because the megawatt hour was still worth CZK 1,500 and now households will pay approximately CZK 6,000 to CZK 7,000 for one megawatt hour of gas. I am just interested in how you are able to secure the price for citizens of the Czech Republic, as in other countries, for it will, of course, be the price for various businesses. There will be huge unemployment and a huge shortage, a huge crisis. So that's what I'd like to ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u19	Thank you for keeping time. I would now ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u20	I'm sure the gas situation is serious and important, and it's good that we're talking about it here, that you're asking. Why do we have a slightly different structure for both gas trading and gas purchase, and what the State's share and share of private suppliers, operators and owners of those bins is not a question of my government, that is the question of the previous governments. And why we do not have alternative resources, why the Stork II pipeline has not been built, why some steps have not been taken in the past, these are really things and questions that we can, of course, ask ourselves together, but our government cannot answer for them. What we are responsible for is that there is enough gas in this difficult situation. We are intensively concerned about the situation and we see, of course, what happened to the gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria in connection with the termination of supplies by the Russian Federation. However, I would like to say and assure all citizens of the Czech Republic that we do not yet have any signals about stopping the supply of Russian gas to the Czech Republic, and that we are in a slightly different situation than Poland and Bulgaria, because Poland and Bulgaria are buying on the basis of a direct contract with Gazprom Export, i.e. directly, while we are shopping mainly on short-term and spot markets in Western Europe, and there is no way to distinguish the gas we are buying - or Russia cannot identify - which will go to the Czech Republic. So if we were affected in a significant way by sanctions or restrictions or by stopping the Russian Federation, it would have to be, above all, if Russia had stopped supplying to most European countries and stopped supplying gas to Germany. Otherwise, of course, our dependence on Russian gas, although we shop like this and even though we shop on markets in Western Europe, goes beyond - it changes a little bit, but it basically exceeds 90 percent. This is an extremely high addiction and we need to get rid of it. That is why I recently announced that our government will prepare a five-year plan within a few weeks to get rid of dependence on Russian energy sources, to ensure the energy security of the Czech Republic for the future, which is not secured at the moment. [[15.00 hours]] If the supply of gas from the Russian Federation to the European Union had been interrupted in the long run, the solution that would follow could certainly not be done by the Czech Republic itself, even for the reasons that we are at the end, so it is - although we are in the middle of the country, we are at the end of all the routes that run the gas, and unfortunately we are not from this point of view, unfortunately we are not a sea country, we do not have terminals in which we could store LNG in which we could store liquefied gas and have these supplies, we could create them as other states do. However, this is also what we are working on. We are trying to renegotiate negotiations on new pipelines, such as Stork II. We are also trying to ensure capacity in LNG terminals, and especially some transport capacity, so that if there is really a reduction, a significant reduction or a halt in the supply of gas from Russia, we have an alternative for our citizens and companies. It's certainly not a coincidence that the magazines are filling up like you mentioned here. It's also due to our government's activity. At this point, we have stacks filled so that we are able to or that we have a supply of gas for two months in the summer period, and we will take steps to ensure that traders fill the bins so that we have sufficient capacity before the winter months, which of course will start coming soon and where gas consumption is significantly higher. We are doing these steps despite the fact that, as I said, the structure of the gas management of the Czech Republic is significantly different than in some other countries. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u21	Thank you. I will now ask the Member if he wants to ask an additional question? Yes, he does. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one more time about the clips because you didn't answer that. But we know that you have signals from the European Union, that the government still has some signals here, but I'm basically missing the solution. I think that you are the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and you should really take care of the citizens of the Czech Republic not to pay advances of 20,000 a month on gas instead of how they paid and as they were used to, for example, between 1,500 and 2,500, that was normal household consumption, including the winter season. And so how do you want to help people who are now going to be faced with a gas bill coming in, and they're going to be new backups according to the new spot prices, so that's also nice... I'm not even gonna say it, because that's a very nasty word. I'd say pigsty, because that spot trading thing is a matter of a few years, basically everyone got used to it and eventually no one has long-term contracts and you should have long-term contracts directly with the supplier. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u23	Thank you and I will now ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u24	We are in a situation where the energy security of the Czech Republic has simply been neglected for a long time and we are taking steps not to do so. Tomorrow I am going to Poland, I will discuss with Poland the renewal of the discussion on the construction of the Stork II pipeline and the strengthening of the interconnection of, for example, the Czech and Polish gas systems. We are taking further steps in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic. I was not talking about any signals here, I was talking about the interconnection of the European gas market, about the fact that the Czech Republic is of course and will be dependent on gas imports and that we need to create an alternative to absolute dependence on Russian gas, which, as we may agree, is simply disadvantageous. If we disagree, just look at Poland, how is Poland or Bulgaria today, who have long-term contracts with Russia - they just don't have gas at the moment. There's no way we're going this way. And as for the clips, it needs to be understood, it's not quite that simple. It's not the same as oil. In the case of those bins, it does not apply at all that whoever owns the magazine can also, must store gas and generate supplies there, on the contrary, so that the management or the way in which it is operated is legally set in a completely different way throughout Europe. So there's a big question - and let's talk about it, it's a big economic question and strategic - whether the Czech Republic should even invest in something like a magazine or rather invest in gas pipelines that will bring gas to us and we will... create an opportunity to acquire and import alternative resources into the Czech Republic, which may be much more advantageous than owning some part or some container that someone else will store the gas in anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u25	Prime Minister, thank you for keeping the time. Mr Karel Tureček, Mr. Karel Tureček, will now speak with the next interview and prepare Andrej Babiš. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, let me ask you about your personal position as Prime Minister on Czech farmers and whether the government is really prepared to lean on them today in difficult times and to use their production potential to ensure affordable food in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, so far I have the impression that the government is doing the exact opposite and does not want the production potential of Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmers. I would like to ask you about your personal position on compliance by the Government of the resolution of the Agriculture Committee number 34 of 5 April 2022, which was also adopted by the votes of the Coalition Members. The Agricultural Committee called on the Minister of Agriculture to propose to the Government: I. a temporary extension of the excise refund of 90 per cent to plant production as well; II. propose to include agriculture and food industry in the list of energy-intensive sectors; III. put forward a proposal for the inclusion of the agricultural and food segment in the critical infrastructure system of the State; IV. negotiated the maximum amount of national co-financing of the European financial package, which is possible up to CZK 540 million, and also presented a proposal to monitor the margin of trade chains. Prime Minister, is your government prepared to support these legitimate demands of our farmers and, ultimately, your Members? Don't you want to move your Minister of Agriculture a little bit to do the will of your coalition MPs, and bring these proposals to the government? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u27	Thank you for keeping up the time and presenting your intervention. And now I will ask for the Prime Minister Petr Fiala's reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u28	Yes, Madam President, Mr President, thank you for the interpellation. They are, of course, more questions for the Minister of Agriculture, to which the resolution of the agricultural committee is also addressed. Of course, I do not underestimate it, I consider it important and, of course, we take the resolution of the agricultural committee of 5 April seriously. For example, in this resolution of the Agricultural Committee, we are talking about abolishing the obligation to leave 10 percent of arable land outside production. So I would like to say here that this is a proposal to abolish the obligation to set aside 10 percent of non-reproduction areas. Such an obligation is not part of the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy for the Czech Republic. This is the general objective of the Green Agreement, which is a commitment at European Union level. However, the strategic plan contains, following European legislation, an obligation to set aside non-reproductive areas under cross compliance. The draft strategic plan envisages a procedure for separating 7 per cent of non-reproduction areas from the arable land area. This percentage may appear to be high, but it should be stressed that these 7 % may consist of areas usable for production, namely nitrogen-weighting crops and intermediate crops, only the remaining 3 % should be filled with purely non-productive areas, i.e. the soil, landscape elements or protective strips. It should also be recalled that this is still a proposal from the Czech Republic. There is currently a reminder, a reminder process in the European Commission, so there are possible further adjustments. [[15.10 hours]] You also mentioned one part of the resolution here, which is the negotiation of the maximum amount of the national financing of the European financial package of CZK 270 million. At present negotiations are held by the Ministry of Agriculture with the Ministry of Finance on the maximum possible co-financing of the European financial package of CZK 540 million from the national sources of the state budget. There are several ways to do this. The aim, of course, is to release these resources in some form. By its resolution of 5 April, the Agricultural Committee also called on the Minister of Agriculture to address the critical situation in agriculture and its implications for ensuring sufficient food and feed in the Czech Republic. One of these points is price questions. The Minister also takes this matter seriously, monitoring the situation. You know that he has also given some public announcements and are looking for ways to implement this. One of the other requirements of the Agricultural Committee was to postpone the obligation to reduce quantities of pesticides and fertilisers. Here it must be said that fertilizer consumption in the Czech Republic has decreased significantly in recent years. Compared to 2016, nitrogen consumption decreased by 24.7 percent last year. This is mainly due to legislative measures in place, such as the implementation of the nitrate directive in vulnerable nitrate areas, where procedures are in place which are an appropriate instrument to reduce the balance sheet surplus of nitrogen and reduce the risk of losses by flooding out of the soil. As regards the consumption of phosphorus and potassium fertilisers, the Czech Republic has long been struggling with their negative balance. Given the sharp increase in the prices of fertilizers that are produced, we have already talked about this here, primarily from natural gas, so they are now moving up to six times the prices of 2020. And especially here, there is a shortage, or there is already a shortage, so another reduction in fertiliser consumption can be expected. For this reason, and also because of limited production in Ukraine, the European Commission has proceeded to postpone the proposal for management on the sustainable use of pesticides, which was to further reduce the use of pesticides. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u29	I thank the Prime Minister and ask if Mr Karel Tureček wants to ask an additional question? Yes. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u30	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I asked for five specific measures and you replied to one, and that is the national co-financing of the European financial package of CZK 540 million, perhaps. I'm gonna use what you've been signaling here that you're meeting with Polish Prime Minister Morawiecký tomorrow, and I want to ask you if you're gonna talk about agriculture, about supporting Czech but also Polish farmers? It applies to farmers "who gives fast, twice gives" And in this context, almost 30 days have passed since the agricultural committee resolution, and practically nothing has happened. I would like to point out that Poland has, in a fortnight, notified national support for Polish farmers amounting to EUR 836 million, which is CZK 20 billion. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time.]] And the farmers already have the support. So I want to ask if you're going to discuss the subject as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u31	Thank you for asking the additional question. I'll ask the Prime Minister for his reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u32	Dear Member, I have taken at my disposal the resolution of the Agricultural Committee, which you have asked and referred to, I have mentioned some of the things that the Agricultural Committee requires, and I have shown how the Czech Republic or the Ministry of Agriculture is dealing with this. And these were concrete steps that affected farmers. I'm talking about a number of them with representatives of agricultural interest groups, so it doesn't feel like it belongs here in the answers to your interpelations. You also asked me for my personal opinion on agriculture and agricultural policy. I may not have told you that, but from what I have answered here, it is clear that I attach a great deal of weight to this issue, which is why I also associate with representatives of agricultural interest groups, we are talking about some of the problems that are here, some of the disputes between large farmers, to make it simple, and small family farms. We are talking about prices, how to help farmers with rising energy prices and inputs, which, of course, have an impact on food production. We are talking about all this because our concern is that we continue to have quality self-sufficient agriculture, so that our people have affordable agricultural commodities and also food. If you ask me if I will be talking to my Polish colleague Mateuzs Morawiecký about agriculture tomorrow, we will discuss all possible issues, but the key issues are, of course, security and energy security at the moment, because here we are facing huge problems that we have to deal with in the order of a few days. Of course, agricultural issues are also important, we are dedicated to them, and we are also dedicated to ensuring that our people have quality and affordable food. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u33	Thank you. Mr Andrej Babiš will speak with the next interview and Mr Radek Rozvoral will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u34	Dear Prime Minister, let me quote you from the election debate, that was September 26, on CNN Prima, and I quote: "It is getting expensive and people have legitimate concerns. We want the Prime Minister" - that was me at the time - "and the Prime Minister who is responsible would have done this to defend the interests of Czech citizens - so that energy doesn't get expensive, there is a need to discuss emission allowances." I was discussing the emission permits. I even blocked the European Council, writing three letters. We even fought together with Mateuzs Morawiecký. And emission allowances, of course, have a major impact on the price of energy - up to 23 percent for electricity. So I want to ask you why I haven't actually heard the word "emission permit" since you joined the Prime Minister's office, and if you're going to discuss it, because the MiFID directive is wrong. Clearly, the evolution of emission allowances that affect electricity proves that there is speculative capital, that the directive needs to be amended, that emission allowances need to be ceilinged. And I think it's crucial, and it's actually a place where you can do something for our citizens. We have won taxonomy at the European Council in cooperation with France. We have, of course, fought through the word core or gas or emissions of our forests and so on, so that's what we've been doing. You're bragging about building a Dukovany power plant - that's our work, too. So you guys should continue our strategy and I'm asking if you're going to negotiate a change to the MiFID directive, the emission permits, if you're going to continue this initiative that I started and that didn't work because it takes unanimity to do it. [[- Please, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u35	Thank you and I will now ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u36	Dear Prime Minister, well, I confess that I don't quite know if that's how you describe it, that you won the taxonomy. When I was appointed Prime Minister, one of the first steps that I took is that I wrote a letter to the President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, where I asked her not to postpone the taxonomy decision that had not been taken at the time, and where I reminded her, and here I am happy to say, our joint activity within the Chamber of Deputies, which concerned the demands for future energy mix to be a core. And this, of course, had something to do with what was going on at the time we were, our government was already in office when it was still taxonomy. By the way, the struggle for taxonomy, which we have so far successfully led thanks to our diplomatic offensive, is not yet completely over. We still need to take those final steps. [[15.20 hours]] Another thing that we have done and pushed into the decision of the European Council is to reassure, confirm and make clear that individual national states can determine for themselves the form of their energy mix. And that's also important. This is important for the Czech Republic, because, as you know, given our natural, climatic conditions and the fact that we are industrialised countries with high energy consumption, we will need a core in the future and we will need and we need that the core can be a legitimate part of the energy mix in the future and that it is one of the net supported resources. And that's what we managed to get into those documents. Another thing that has also been brought to the conclusions of the European Council through our diplomatic initiative is the confirmation that energy security of all Member States will be ensured, which, among other things, is the political assumption that, for example, at a time when there is a shortage of gas, because it will cease to be supplied by the Russian Federation so that those states will have to share their supplies with those who are at the end of the gas line. So we are working at the European Council, as you well know, Mr President, as a prime minister, as well as at the European Council, approving the basic political guidelines or the basic policy formulation on the basis of which the specific decisions are then made to the Council of the European Union. So the wordings are extremely important for what will be done then at the next stage. So we have won the fact that there is an energy mix as the right of the Member States to create it. In this way, we have actually fixed the core as a net supported resource and provide some kind of energy solidarity or energy security in the future, which is also extremely important in terms of the future. Yes, you mentioned the tender for Dukovan's completion - that's what we promised, we accelerated the steps, and we declared the tender. That just didn't work out in the past - he could have already been declared the Sobotkův government, that's not what happened. You certainly know, through Madam President, why, but we consider the delay too long, which is why we have put the tender out as quickly as possible. We have written it in such a way that it is safe from the point of view of the Czech Republic and its strategic interests, which means that Rosatom or companies associated with Russia or China cannot participate there. And that will ensure us - and now, in order to make no mistake - that will provide us with the nuclear energy that we have more or less today, but we must continue to develop nuclear energy, we are preparing further steps on this matter as quickly as possible, because that will not be enough for us. At the same time, we have to work on - and this is also completely neglected - strengthening renewable resources, those sensible and those that can work in our country, such as photovoltaics on roofs, whether households or private houses or public buildings, in this the Czech Republic is very neglected. And that is certainly the way that we can strengthen our energy mix in the future, especially after we simply have to get rid of the strong energy dependence on Russia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u37	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the President of the YES movement if he wants to ask an additional question. Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u38	Prime Minister, emission allowances - you didn't say that again, that word. I'm fascinated by you selling our jobs, my work. You didn't push for anything, because I dealt with the taxonomy with Macron in 2019. I'm sorry, so read the conclusions! It says so! Energy, separate mix, that's what we've been pushing, yes, me as Prime Minister, it's in the minutes. Read it! That taxonomy, that it took Ursule von der Leyenová a year to finally write the paper, and now you're selling it. Dukovany? Dukovany is Havlíčkův's work. And Sobotka? That was about Temelina. So please, I'm really fascinated by you -- it's clear data, clear numbers, clear entries, and I understand that you're selling these positive things like you did. But it's not. You guys should do things that you really can. OKD - you can make six million tons there. You can extend it - and what did you do? [[President: Mr President, time.]] You just delivered a man for the chairman of the supervisory board, who helped run Bakal's flats and watched Mittal pull out 52 billion dividends. [[- Please, time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u39	Thank you. I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u40	Everyone can really make up for it, so everyone can see when taxonomy was approved. And let him also look at the conclusions of the European Councils that I took part in, what is there, and whether there are those sentences that I am talking about, and find out that I am. And that's the result of not only my negotiation, that's the difference between us. You just got there and thought you'd say something right away at the European Council and get it done, and then you didn't get it because you have to negotiate ahead, you have to involve the negotiating teams, and then it works. This simply makes us successful. And as far as emission allowances are concerned, yes, it is the subject, but if you look at what they say today about energy prices and energy policy by experts, today the price of what happened doesn't affect what it did in the past. I am not saying that this is not a topic, I am prepared to continue to discuss it, and most importantly to look for allies that we did not have in the European Council, you did not have them, and at this point the majority is not there, we have to work on it. But frankly, emission allowances are not the top priority today. The biggest priority is to ensure sufficient energy for the Czech Republic for the future, for the short, medium and long term. And that cannot be done without the fact that within the European Union, and what the Prime Minister can do, that is, at the European Council, we will push through such wordings and policy conclusions that will allow us not to suddenly find ourselves here without gas, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where someone tells us: You cannot build a core because we do not want to. So we just don't have the right to our own energy mix! And that is what I advocate at the European Council. I am pushing this with our diplomatic team at all other levels, and we are doing well. Citizens can see that we are succeeding. Not only in the conclusions of the European Council, but in what will be fulfilled in the future. [[Prime Minister, time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u41	Thank you. Mr Radek Rozvoral will speak with the next interview and Mr Jaroslav Bašta will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, my question to you as Prime Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic, who is fully responsible for the functioning and functioning of our country, in all important areas, is this: How does the government want to ensure the energy self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic in the supply of gas, which you have already mentioned briefly, but also oil for the nearest period? My question takes into account the situation where Russia's Gazprom has stopped the gas supply to Poland and Bulgaria since Wednesday, when it can be expected that other EU countries, including the Czech Republic, will be equally affected. According to publicly available sources, gas tanks, which are not owned by our country, are now filled with a little over 30 percent, which represents about a two-month supply of gas to ensure the operation of our country. So I ask: What strategy does the government have prepared to fully secure the energy self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic in the supply of gas and oil in the coming months?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u43	Thank you for your time and I will ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u44	Thank you. Energy security, honourable Member, is certainly an extremely important matter, we have touched this here several times, so I will not repeat the things I have already said, and I will try to divide the answer by what type of energy it is. When it comes to fuel and therefore oil, there is of course a better situation than in the case of gas and it is better given the structure of how oil is traded and what can happen here. So it can be said here that the Czech Republic's Government of Material Reserves has reserves for at least 94 days, and if Russian oil supplies were stopped completely, where our dependence is not as large as that of gas, the refineries in Litvínov and Kralupy would need about 30 to 40 days to replace these supplies from elsewhere. And if we have supplies for 96 days, it's clear that that would be enough, and that wouldn't be the problem. However, I, as well as in Poland, will be discussing oil and, where appropriate, what would happen if Russia stopped our oil supply, given the ownership structure of the refineries. Before I get to the gas, we still have one key source, and that is nuclear energy, which accounts for about 36% of our energy mix or energy produced in the Czech Republic. Here, when it comes to energy security, it is once again very important who supplies nuclear fuel. And here is an important report that in the future, the fuel for Temelín will not be supplied by a Russian company, but by suppliers from France and the United States. And it is also important to say that the Temelín power plant currently has fuel supplies for two years, Dukovany power plant has fuel supplies for three years. So even here, you can see that we take care of energy security and take steps to ensure that it's secure. As far as gas is concerned, we have talked about this several times. The situation here, of course, is different, and the way of trading is different, the legislation is different, so the state has a slightly more limited option than in the case of oil and nuclear. However, you mentioned it yourself, there are about a billion cubic meters of gas in domestic storage today. That's not a coincidence, those clips are filling up. You yourself mentioned that it was enough to consume about two months, but I note, in the summer months. We will take every step to fill those reservoirs sufficiently before the next winter, so that even if we stop the gas supply from Russia, we can be sure that we can handle the situation. But that can't be enough, and we can't settle for it, we can't say - fill up the clips, it'll work out somehow. It won't. We need to have fun, and we are doing this, we are discussing alternative sources of gas, we are talking about strengthening supplies and ensuring the supply of liquefied gas to the Czech Republic. This is also not quite easy, because we do not have ports, we do not have a completely direct option to build terminals, as other countries do. We need to talk about having a share in some terminals, and especially to find a way to get gas to the Czech Republic. This is a significant thing, because, as you know, liquefied LNG will partially replace natural gas. There is a promise of increased supplies of liquefied gas from some countries, such as the United States, but also from other countries. It is something that the European energy policy is quite focused on, and the Czech Republic cannot stand here outside. So we're in charge of this, and we're going to conduct negotiations in the next few days. And as I have already mentioned here, I also want to talk about whether it is possible to restore the idea of the Stork II pipeline from Poland to the Czech Republic, because this would certainly help us in our search for energy security in the future. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask if the Member wants to ask an additional question? I see you do. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u46	I would still ask for specific steps directly. In your Government's programming declaration approved on 6 January, you state, among other things, that energy security, self-sufficiency, climate objectives and available energy supplies are a priority. So I ask what is the government's plan, if tomorrow the Russian gas would stop flowing completely into the Czech Republic, on which our country is dependent of 100%, and I ask you to present concrete steps, because there was such information in the media that they would be given priority in some way of the household, then medical facilities and so on, and how it would be if the gas stopped completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u47	Thank you for asking the Prime Minister an additional question and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u48	Dear Member, these are good questions, and although they are interpelations and I answer everything, I cannot answer one part of the question for strategic and security reasons. If I were to reveal some of the steps we are taking and the intentions we have, it could have an impact on the behaviour of some providers, it could have an impact on prices, and there is no way I can allow that to happen. So I just assure everyone that we are taking strategic steps and decisions to ensure sufficient gas for the Czech Republic in the future. But I can answer the essential part of your question, because it's quite simple. If we were to get into a situation - and please, if we - that the gas really wasn't, and as I explained in one interpelation - even in this actually: we have supplies, we are increasing stocks in storage to buy gas for a longer period of time, or our suppliers are buying gas on German markets, so even if Russia decides to stop delivering gas to the Czech Republic, the gas simply doesn't recognise itself in Germany and it would move on. If there were a situation where Russia would stop the supply of gas to the entire European Union, that would be a problem. The European Union is 40 percent dependent on Russian gas as a whole, we of over 90, and then we would have to act. And then what you mentioned would come into play, but not on the basis of the government's will or any of our decisions, is legislation, and that legislation sets out exactly what happens in the lack of gas. This means that it is first ensured that the gas has households that are drowning it, then that it has critical infrastructure, including hospitals, and this is how it is progressed. And it also sets out exactly in the legislation who first turns off and who gets the gas longer. [[Prime Minister, time.]] And hopefully it won't happen, it's not entirely likely to happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u49	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Bašta, Mr Alena Schillerová, will speak with the next interview. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u50	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, an initiative by the Office of the Government called Defence of Ukraine, defending the Czech Republic calls on citizens to report the spreaders of Russian disinformation, but does not define what the misinformation is. As a historian, I see the only analogy with this proposal, and that is the Council's regulation on the defence of the Empire on emergency radio measures of 1 September 1939. This prohibited listening to foreign radio and imposed death sentences for the dissemination of information from this broadcast. During the German occupation several dozen Czech patriots were executed for this. Dear Prime Minister, weren't your subordinates inspired by this Reich's decree? On 1 September 1939, it coincides with the only historical date mentioned in the material of this initiative of the Office of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u51	Thank you for your time and I will now ask for the Prime Minister Petr Fiala's reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u52	Dear Member, I am also an education and the original profession of historian, so we can also have a historical debate here. But as a historian, I must tell you that your comparison is not only inaccurate, but completely misleading, and I think that if we had thought of it, it was an insult to those who really suffered under the brutal Nazi regime who were exposed to persecution that risked their lives. And compared to today's situation, it's completely impossible, and I think it's very low. There's no threat to our citizens. I've already described here in the previous interpellation what and how the government does against the spread of misinformation. And I don't know what else to say about that. I would just like to remind you that the so criticized one paragraph on the site you mentioned here, and I am glad that you mentioned it here, brátit Ukraine, defending the Czech Republic - I recommend everyone to look at it - so the one paragraph says that if you find it, and now I interpret it inexactly, I'm sorry, I read it on the basis of the initiative, you will meet with the disinformation, so don't worry about the social network where it will appear, to draw attention to it. That's what it says. And then it's said, which is part of our legal system, if you run into a crime, don't be afraid to report it. However, I recognise that in this context this sentence is probably redundant or not happy, so I asked my colleagues to adjust it in an appropriate way, but this does not really mean any mention, nor any danger to Czech citizens. Anyone can say what they want, we have freedom of speech. It's important, and I'll be the first to fight for it. But let us not confuse the freedom of speech with the spread of disinformation or the fact that there are websites that serve the spread of disinformation by a foreign power that leads an unfair war and tries to influence the situation in the Czech Republic with its lying information. This has to be named, it has to be opposed, it has to be taken also steps that can be positive, as I have described here, it can be strategic communication, but we would probably be the only country that would not fight such things. I will remind you here of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, where, in addition to freedom of expression and the right to information, there is also a part that says: "Freedom of expression and the right to seek and disseminate information can be limited by law when measures are taken in a democratic society necessary to protect the rights and freedoms of others, the security of the state, public security, the protection of public health and morality." Our legislation is not adapted to the spread of disinformation, and you can see that even in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, this is what is being thought of. However, we are not tightening any legislation at the moment, we have created a position of government media agent and disinformation to address concentrated activities against the spread of disinformation. That's what we do. The government representative has recently been appointed as the head of the communication team within the strategic group as an advisory body of the government and we are simply doing this. So, please, let's not scare the citizens here before they say something, so somebody's gonna be persecuting them somewhere. It's not true. Anyone can say what they want, and that's good. And that's what we all fight for, and that's what we all strive for. That's what we've been trying to do for years, and that's just how it's gonna be. Actually, I didn't really understand your analogy, and I have to say, he makes me sad. We should not simply say something like this here, because what you have said, Mr Member, through Madam President, is also false, deep falsehood and untruth, which aims to damage what is currently happening in the Czech Republic in the context of democratic processes and freedom of speech, and I am sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u53	Prime Minister, time. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I will ask the Member if he wants to ask an additional question. I see you do. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u54	Freedom of expression and the right to seek and disseminate information can be restricted by law. The decision of an association to stop websites that have been labeled disinformation, such circular evidence, because they are disinformation sites because they are printed disinformation or published on them. But there's no evidence that it's misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u55	Thank you for keeping time. And I will ask for an answer to the Prime Minister's supplementary question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u56	It's a long story. I'll try very briefly in those two minutes. The decision of the administrator of the CZ.NIC domain was a free decision of the server administrator as well as the free decision of any other news server. The fact that the government welcomes this decision and that I personally welcome it does not change the free decision. The government did not forbid, nor could it prohibit, any media, but in the case of those disinformation sites it was not about the media, because the media is considered a set of information prepared by journalists according to standard professional rules. This was proven to be a misinformation device spreading lies to the Russian government. And let's just keep this in mind. I don't suspect you, Mr. Ambassador, but if you wanted to write there, you can put that opinion somewhere else. No one is going to perscuss you for that opinion and as a regular citizen. At the most, someone will disagree with him, which you may not like, but that is just how it is in a democratic society. And that's all that's gonna happen. But he can't do this state and he hasn't done it in the past. He led the fight against hybrid threats, against a hybrid war, which includes misinformation, and the Czech state did so in the past. He didn't do it intensely enough, there was no strategic communication, he didn't do it with such urgency, because we simply didn't face the massive disinformation campaign that we are now facing in connection with the war in Ukraine, in connection with Russia's aggression, in connection with the fight that Russia is leading by indirect means or through the hybrid war against us. That's the more dramatic the situation is, the more we need to point it out, the more we need to define ourselves against it, and the more we need to fight it. This is a normal process of a democratic country, but that simply does not mean that someone will be persecuted for their opinions. It won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u57	Prime Minister, time. Thank you. With further intervention, Mrs Alena Schillerová will now speak and prepare herself with the next one. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u58	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to one thing. I am very concerned about the report issued by the Czech Statistical Office this week that according to their data, which we know are no longer from this week, which achieves inflation year-on-year, is above the threshold of so-called falling inflation, almost 13 percent, namely 12.7. This means that the real wages of most people fall dramatically, even by almost 10 percent in the second quarter of 2022. I meet Czech citizens regularly, I believe you too, and there is no way to ignore this dynamic decline. And what is from this week, according to the Czech Statistical Office, Czech consumers are worried about price growth, deterioration of the overall economic situation and their own financial situation. And consumer confidence is the lowest in Czech consumers in almost ten years, at 81.3 points and is still falling dynamically. [[15.50 hours]] I understand that, as a result of the current complicated situation, there may be a decline in the standard of living, it is a harsh truth that I repeat openly, I also tell the citizens I speak to - the problem I see is that your government does not see this as a free fall and you have the opportunity and means to slow it down. [[President: Madam President, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u59	Thank you. Now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u60	Thank you. Madam President, Madam President, I am pleased that you mention high inflation here, because we need to talk about what caused the high inflation and what we can do to get rid of it. And it's not just my opinion, it's the opinion of a number of economists, it's the opinion of some independent institutions that the previous government, the government of Andrej Babiš, under which you have also signed, has a large share of this inflation, and the consequences of course are affecting our citizens today. We can see how high inflation is today in the Czech Republic and compare it with inflation in other countries, including the countries around us, why it is higher. So let's see what happened to our country's debt. Over the past six years, CZK 850 billion has increased, which is CZK 85,000 per citizen, including children and pensioners. Unfortunately, this is the result, and this was not related to the covid crisis. But, as the Supreme Audit Office said, 90 percent of the expenses were virtually unrelated. And the examples where the money was issued without going to the solution to the covid, while borrowing and increasing debt, there are a number of examples. And what caused this extreme lending, spending, wasting public money? Well, it's turning the inflation, it's turning the inflation spiral, it's making it expensive, it's depreciating money, saving Czech citizens, and we have to do something about it. On the one hand, it is the Czech National Bank that is trying to put out the fire, and on the other hand, there is a government that has prepared a new form of budget, a budget that is more economical, which has reduced not only the deficit against your proposal by CZK 100 billion, but also the expenditure of the state, which I think is important in terms of managing inflation. And why - I will come back to this - is there such a difference between inflation in the Czech Republic and in other countries, when energy prices in Europe are rising very similarly, perhaps the same, and yet the inflation in our country is higher? Well, it's the result of a wasteful, wasteful policy. Let us look at Eurostat's information, these are not my figures, Eurostat's information, which stated that most of the countries of the European Union, the vast majority, decreased their debt last year, so the Czech Republic was increasing. And these, of course, are the sources of current inflation. It's not true we don't do anything for citizens. In addition to the anti-inflationary measures I mentioned, we have taken a number of steps that I can recall here. We help those who can't help themselves, they're our seniors. We assess the pension, each will have an average of CZK 1,000 more, which will help him. Yes, it's legal, but we put money in the state budget for it, 20 billion that weren't there. We help those who get - on the one hand, pensioners, on the other hand, those who get into existential distress. We have expanded the number - about hundreds of thousands - of those who reach social welfare. And that's important, it's not just a housing allowance. We've increased life, existential minimum, and we're taking more steps. So when someone gets into a situation that, as a result of being expensive, he doesn't have to make his living, run his household, he has the opportunity, thanks to our measures, to reach the aid of the state. What are we doing now? Now we've taken further steps, we've helped the most vulnerable - socially - and the elderly, and now we're taking steps for the middle class that it affects most. And those who are most at risk are families with children, these are singles and singles, which is why yesterday we decided on measures such as - this is one of many - that we give a one-off contribution of CZK 5 000 to each child under 18 years of age to all families, households whose income does not exceed CZK 1 million per year. This is a concrete measure, and it will help people in this difficult situation. And I have not listed the measures that we are doing and did, for example, against fuel growth, which also has an impact on households, and many other steps that will help Czech citizens to overcome this difficult situation. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u61	Thank you. I'll ask if there's an interest in an additional question? Yes. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u62	Yes, I'm sure it is. I'll talk very quickly to make it. About the debt, Prime Minister. You must know that, according to Eurostat, we are the sixth least indebted country in the European Union. And to the rate of debt - yes, I have instructed the Minister of Finance to prefinance ourselves, otherwise today, the interest would have made you feel much more pain than you felt today. And two interesting numbers. Debt, debt for the ODS governments is over 16 percent of GDP, for the governments in which the YES movement and the Ministry of Finance had a little over 2 percent of GDP. Interesting numbers! I explained the SAO x-times. What is it that makes us feel bad? That we've raised social security benefits? That we changed the budgetary determination of taxes so that the munitions would be in surplus? That we raised health insurance so that no one in this country would be restricted? This turned out to be very, very prudent because you now have 300,000 new state insured people, which we obviously want - unfortunately I would need more time, I will write to you in writing. [[President: Madam President, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u63	I ask for an answer to the Prime Minister's supplementary question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u64	Madam President, if my head hurts or doesn't hurt, it is not so important, but the head hurts - figuratively speaking - a lot of citizens who simply devalue their savings as a result of inflation, their money, everything gets more expensive to them, and part of the inflation that is simply higher than in other countries around us is simply caused, and says almost every economist, is caused by the inefficient policy of your government. Yes, let's talk about total debt, but that's just one aspect. The much more important one is the rate of debt. And if, last year, the vast majority of countries were reducing their debt, the Czech Republic was among the very few countries, we even increased the debt most. And this, of course, has a negative impact on inflation and inflation, as you know, means price increases and has a lot of other negative effects that we have to prevent. That is why our government is acting economically responsibly. That is why we have prepared a budget that is anti-inflationary, that will fight inflation, that will prevent inflation from growing uncontrolledly, that is why we are also taking measures, and thus we are different from your government, which does not divide money to everyone, that is to say, to those who do not need it, but we aim targeted at seniors in retirement, we aim at those who are getting into an existential distress as a result of energy expensiveness and expensive food. And now we're aiming at those who are ultimately the most affected, and that's middle class, and in the first place, families with children, singles and singles, because they can't help themselves with that in the long term. And we help them with targeted measures, and that's important. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u65	Thank you. With the next interview, Mrs. Alena Schillerová will perform, it's the last of the interviews.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u66	Thank you. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Prime Minister, she's following up on what you just said, called help to the vulnerable. and I'm not going to repeat the numbers, I think we've said them. The budget you are talking about was a piece of paper the day it was approved. Even today, your finance minister admits that you will have to raise it by tens of billions, and there will be no hiding behind the war. So let's go to the vulnerable. Pensions: you were opposed to pensions on 1 January, which thanks to our passed law - we increased by 300 crowns - for which you did not vote, by the way, in 2021, today you say that this is aid directed towards seniors on 1 January, however, the extraordinary valorisation you have to give because it tells you about 15 years old law, so the seniors have been waiting for five months, of course. And in the meantime, inflation is crushing their savings, crushing their resources, and they actually find themselves in very unsolvable problems, as they write to me. You really increased the life and existential minimum by 10 percent three weeks ago. We increased it by 13 percent in the covido year at a time when inflation was around 3% to admit that you would increase it again after three weeks. What kind of thoughtful policy is this government's? And you say to the middle class, don't worry, middle class, you might as well be poor, and when you're very poor, come and get your welfare. That's what you tell them. And you haven't given 5,000 yet. All you did was send a signal and you said, "We'll prepare legislation, then you, the families with income up to one million, which will probably add up, get a confession, or get a confirmation from your employer - whether it's 2021 or 2020. No one knows, and then maybe we'll give it to you sometime in August. [[President: Madam President, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u67	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u68	Thank you. Madam President, Madam President, I would like to name here all the measures that we have taken that you have not mentioned here, but there will be no time for that either. I'm just gonna say one thing first. The fact that we have adopted a budget that was absolutely realistic is true, and the war in Ukraine and all the related issues have come into this, so we do not hide that we will need to adjust the budget. How we're gonna do it, but only when we know what the cost is - we're not gonna do it like you did, that there's just gonna be some kind of charge and we're gonna hit if we spend it or we're not gonna spend it. We will proceed responsibly. Just an example of some of the measures that we have taken and what impact this has on us. Yes, you mentioned a one-time allowance for a child of CZK 5,000. It will really concern - this will be added - families with income up to a million crowns. It'll involve children under the age of 18. It's estimated to hit over one million households. That's important. We have also decided to increase the maximum parental rate to 13,000 instead of the previous 10,000. We will support the short-term, which is important for families, and we want to give exceptional subsidies for setting up children's groups, helping the current shortage of places in kindergartens, and this will, in turn, enable people to work more quickly and more easily. I will also remind you that we have increased the housing allowance since January 2022. This will help with housing costs for families and individuals with lower incomes. I wouldn't say we left middle class in the lurch. He and someone who has not yet had any problems due to energy prices, suddenly he will have problems, and we say to him: Don't worry, you never asked for a social benefit, now ask for it, you have the right. By the way, the housing allowance means that 220,000 to 280,000 households could help this year. Then don't tell me it's not enough! That's just help! And let me give you an example. Family - two adults, two children, where the income of both parents is equal to the minimum wage plus child allowance, it takes CZK 32,000, the normative housing costs suddenly amount to CZK 15,000, the amount of the housing allowance will be more than CZK 5,000 after the conditions have been met. That's just the amount that these people are gonna know that's gonna help them. We have also increased the living and existential minimum by 10 percent since April of this year. The measure will again affect 360 000 beneficiaries. That's not enough either! And the minimum of living, as you know, depends on the limits of income in which it is entitled to additional benefits - benefits in material distress, birth benefits, child benefits, foster care and so on and so on. And I'm going to say it again on an example. The family with two children, as I mentioned here, who have no income, will increase their subsistence allowance from April, one of those benefits, by CZK 1,140. They'll know that, too. If they had 10,000 before, and now they're over 11,000, they'll just know. And that's an example of just one dose. Yes, the other thing that you mentioned here is pension valorization. I'm not hiding that it's legal valorisation. We had to set aside the money for her, that's what we did. The percentage of the old-age pension will be increased by 8,2 %. The average pension will increase by CZK 1 017 a month, and it is simply our seniors who are in the pension, who are fighting high prices, will also know and do not have to worry so much about high prices. We have also taken measures to help the most vulnerable groups with energy prices. 2 to 3 billion crowns will go to help households. We have also created an option for those who do not currently have the power bill to ask for extra immediate assistance. In some cases, it can cover the full amount of the energy surcharge. We have taken measures to reduce fuel prices so that it will help both entrepreneurs and everyone else, in fact. Thank you for supporting the reduction in excise duty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u69	Prime Minister, time! Thank you. I'll ask if he's... [[Mrs Schiller: Can I have some more?]] Yes, the interpelation can be completed if it has been administered and must be completely completed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u70	Thank you for your reply to the Prime Minister. If I don't agree with him, thank you. I'm sure it won't be enough, Prime Minister. Again, I'm going to repeat the life and existential minimum, and I don't have to give an example of 10 percent that goes into eight kinds of social benefits, you named some of them, thank you, it just doesn't help when the inflation is already 13 percent and it's heading towards some 15 percent. Again, at the time of the covid, we raised the living and existential minimum by 13 percent. And then inflation was around 3%. So I'm sure it's the most vulnerable, and this is what we agree on, so you really didn't help them - 220,000 households certainly aren't much, and the middle class, you know, doesn't reach the benefits because they're people who go to work, pay their mortgages, take care of their kids, often have property, and therefore they don't meet any conditions to ask for this dose. [[Madam President, time, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u71	Thank you. I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question. Last one. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u72	Madam President, I'm sure you can disagree with my interpretation, but not with the facts that I have said, because these are things that our government has decided and which specifically help citizens, and citizens either feel it or feel it. I agree with one thing, we need to think about the middle class. But the middle class is the one that ultimately pays all the expenses of the state. That money somewhere doesn't grow on trees around the House of Deputies, people make that money. We're gonna take them from them based on some legislative decisions, and we're just gonna redistribute them somehow. And if we borrow the money, somebody's gonna pay for it. And the middle class will pay for it! The middle class always pays, because if you think about middle class, and that's what we do, we don't raise senselessly debt, we don't lower people's savings, we don't indebt people to the future, because the only one who's gonna pay for it again is the middle class. This is just not the policy we want to do. And, yes, we realize that the middle class is affected by the situation that is now happening. That is why we are taking these steps to reduce energy prices, to reduce fuel prices, to have enough flats to lower housing prices, but that is why we have also decided that the middle class that is most affected now, its parts, and these are families with children, these are singles and singles - just look at any statistical overview, they are the most affected and often they are not really entitled to social benefits - so we help them, for example, in the form of a one-off contribution or greater flexibility in the short-term, by creating greater possibilities for child care and other things that help them to cope with the situation. [[16.10 hours]] But we just won't be helping those who have a lot of income right now and don't need help from the state, that wouldn't make any sense. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u73	Thank you. So now it's time to intercede with the Prime Minister, and now there will be oral interpelations on the other members of the government, and I am handing over the proceedings of my colleague's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I cordially greet you, I wish you a good afternoon, and therefore we are launching a block of intercessions on the members of the government. However, I would first read the apologies that ran out in the meantime, and there are considerable numbers of them, so I would like a moment of patience. Mr. Josef Bernard apologizes today from 15.20 a.m. and the entire meeting day tomorrow 29. 4. for reasons of work, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes today between 16 and 18 because of the negotiations in the electoral region, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák today from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Jan Volný today from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, also apologizes today to Mrs Alena Schillerová, and that was between 14 and 15.15 for reasons of work, there is still the second-last apology, Mr Petr Sadovskýý today from 14.30 to the end of the hearing for reasons of employment, Mr Tomáš Helebrant today from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of employment, and the very last Mr Robert Stržínek today from 16 to 18 a.m. for reasons of work. This would state all the apologies received. And I can call on Mrs Balaštíková to give an interview to the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Mr Vít Rakušan, to launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. In the meantime, Mr David Pražák will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u75	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. After all, I decided to read my interpellation to Minister Vít Rakušan. Dear Minister, I believe that we are to help Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war. However, I am asked by citizens, from which regions and regions of Ukraine do refugees come today, see their vehicle registration plates and ask me. Citizens cannot understand why people from areas that are not affected by war are to find a new home with us. Of course, information is leaking to the public through the media, which is of a nature of concern and concern that people who can commit crime here will also come to our country. It is certainly justified to request information from you on how you intend to set up a verification of these people, and especially our citizens are currently sensitive to the fact that it is also these people who are being paid out of public funds. So my next question to you is whether you already have a plan on how you start to check whether these aids are paid rightly and whether you will also check back the eligibility of the payment of these aids. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u76	Thank you for your interpellation. The First Deputy Prime Minister is duly excused, so he will answer you in writing within 30 days, just as you said. And we will move on to the next interpellation, which is the interpellation of Mr David Pražák, who seems not to be present, so his interpellation is failing. Mr Igor Hendrych's interpellation follows, and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u77	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an interview with Minister Jurečka for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. In a nutshell, it is a question of when it intends to provide funding to cover Chapter 313, of which wages and salaries of employees in social services are financed. Salaries in social services are historically set up to be financed from Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and this year the allocation within the state budget was humiliated by 20 percent of what they demanded, or what is real here for this area. According to the reflection that I have from the field - I regularly communicate with social service providers - I know that they are able to pay wages or wages - it depends whether it is a non-profit organization or a contribution organization - so around July, maybe by August, some say that maybe by September. After that, they will no longer have the means to pay wages. And, of course, the energy crisis has entered into that. The 313 is also designed to partially cover the operation of these organizations, and there will also be quite a lot of resources missing. Overall, the estimate is that there will probably be CZK 1.5 billion missing, and I cannot personally imagine that it would not be planned for wages and salaries, or for the salaries of civil servants, but in this area it is simply that and people live in huge uncertainty, or their employers. A paradox is that employees in social services have been added to salaries, but their employers have not been paid for it, or the funds have not been paid for it. So how long are you going to keep the employees in doubt and when you're going to deliver the funds and what form you're going to put them into that system? [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u78	Thank you. And now I don't see Mr. Patrik Nacher in the room, so his interpellation is failing. And we are moving forward to interpelling Mr Radek Koten, who is not present in the hall. He's present - over there, covered up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, it is your turn to interpel, and then Mr. Vladimír Zlínský will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have now picked up such a special article on the iDNES news server, because there have been some statistical data that this year we have a 147% increase in tuberculosis in the Czech Republic. And they were thinking about what it might be, that scientists here have to explore it, or I don't know if the Ministry of Health, or any other organization or doctor here, but since we have some predictions about the percentage of the Ukrainian population, that TB are positive at different stages, that is, after open tuberculosis, I would put it into this three-member, that it's probably going to be here, but I don't know which experts are going to deal with it. Obviously, all the warnings we've been making here, so it hasn't happened in any way in our health system so far, we've developed some measures to keep these diseases from spreading in the population. Next I caught an article yesterday, I think it was on Novinky na Seznam.cz , that there are quite a lot of cases of HIV positivity in incoming refugees, and thus that there have spread among children's populations quite fortunately chickenpox. So I wanted to ask you how your ministry will manage and, of course, our health care, how it will manage these challenges, and whether the Ministry of Health is prepared for this and how it will address it, whether it will therefore be vaccinated against tuberculosis or what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u80	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek now have the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, you must not believe everything you read. Then you're stressing yourself out. You have a lot of doctors on your side. If you ask them, they'll explain it to you, and you don't have to worry like that. Of course, there's a facility here called the State Health Institute. The device is legally controlling these things, monitoring them and monitoring them for a long time. There's this spread, I'd say, in Cimrmanovsky, ugly thing, that there's a low vaccination rate in Ukraine. In Ukraine there is a very high vaccination rate, perhaps larger than in Austria in children. It is dramatically larger than Malta, dramatically larger than Cyprus. It is more like the upper third of what is the average in the European Union. There was some kind of belief that there was 100% inoculation of children in the Czech Republic. It's a deep mistake, it's not. Unfortunately - thank you very much for the interpellation, which highlights the problem of vaccination - the vaccination is falling. This is not due to the absence of vaccines, it is not due to the fact that they are not covered, it is not due to the fact that the vaccination system is not well-set. This is simply due to the fact that a long-term, long-term increase in the number of antivaxers, and unfortunately these numbers also increase among parents children. These numbers are increasing here. I would like to say that compared to the same period last year, the number of proven tuberculosis increased from 39 to 57. It needs to be said that individual mutations of mycobacteria of tuberculosis - and you are absolutely right, not all of these mutations are quite common in all European countries, some are more common in Ukraine, but in southern countries they are more common - generally not only in the composition of the population but also in localization. It is both hepatocellular carcinoma, whose incidence decreases from the south to the north, and the number of cases from 39 to 59 is not statistically absolutely significant. Of course, the state health institute not only monitors the occurrence of individual infectious diseases, but also finds out what mutation it is. The second thing that is essential is that Mycobacterium tuberculosis is an infectious disease with a relatively long incubation period and also the cultivation of this disease is part of a time-consuming examination. This means, even theoretically, it cannot yet manifest itself in the presence of a positive one, say, war in Ukraine and refugees. If anything gets out there, it'll turn up in the fall, but I don't think so. Of course, we're ready to vaccinate. I do not completely believe that it is necessary to start again with vaccination in the Czech population where we ended up with vaccination. We are ready to inoculate Ukrainian children for two reasons. The first reason is that it is right to protect the Czech population, the second reason is that it is ethical because it has to be said that there was no health insurance in Ukraine. The system is quite complicated there. Perhaps it would sometimes be worth a seminar on how difficult the health system in Ukraine is and how much different the health system in post-Soviet countries is from what is standard in Europe, including titles. In fact, we want to start a standard European vaccination scheme in Ukraine. This is also the agreement with some colleagues, doctors, or health ministers, from the countries of the European Union. For other infectious diseases, yes, you're right, there's an increase, and there will be an increase in the fall and it will continue. The reason is that after two years of coronavirus actually overcame some other viral diseases, typically it was competence, and I have to say that even experts from the National Institute have no relevant explanation for this. Even in literature, I did not find a sufficiently convincing explanation for why it was so that coronavirus overpowered some viral diseases. Unfortunately, as the omicron is weaker in this regard and as we postpone individual measures, especially respirators, the number of respiratory diseases is increasing, there is a brutal increase in flu diseases and, of course, the number of infectious diseases in children will increase. There's one thing you need to say here. It's very difficult to compare statistics, because we can't navigate entirely by statistics from the past two to three years, but we have to focus on the statistics before the covideo. And there, when we do that comparison, the increase isn't that big, he's basically comparable in these childhood diseases with the way it was before. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u82	Thank you, too. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I have an additional question. It is, of course, because the health system in Ukraine is completely different from the Czech Republic - and I would sum it up in such a simplification that basically most Ukrainian citizens were treated so that they went to buy something and basically the medical care was done, so of course our medical care is at a completely different level. In this context, therefore, I do not fully understand the reduction in payments for state insured people, because most of the citizens who have fled to us have fled Ukraine before the war, so the health situation is significantly worse for them and, of course, it will cost money, huge extra money, so in this sense I would like to know why you are reducing money for state insured people, if you know very well that it will be far more difficult to finance. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u84	Thank you. The Minister is interested in an answer, a response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u85	Thank you so much for the question and the opportunity to explain. Reductions this year - the money is basically useless, the money is already distributed this year. This is what the so-called conciliation and compensatory decrees are doing, and we have already approved them all and all the demands of the providers have been covered. On the contrary, there are over 60 billion in insurance reserves, and the money is growing there. This means insurance companies have relatively large resources, and the predictions of the previous government - and it is now, without a doubt, their fault - that there will be 17 billion in reserve funds, have proved to be very, very wrong and it is a good thing that the government is wrong that insurance money is in a higher amount than the government was afraid of. It must be said that state insured persons participate in the collection of insurance premiums at least. Gros are employees, and here we have to say that the population of Ukraine is gradually getting into employment - we have over 30,000 employees, i.e. if it continues like this, it is the opposite, because it is a young population, people who want to work, so on the contrary these Ukrainian employees will saturate care for Czech state insured people. I know it sounds like a paradox, but it's reality. The more they work, the more they will saturate care for Czech insured people. It's funny that there's another system set up in Ukraine, but the care isn't worse. Even for some performances there are relatively short waiting times and the system is rather set historically very differently. It's a long debate, and I'm happy to give this debate sometime, and I'm happy to take part in it. It is also an explanation for why it is very complicated to set - and not only for Ukraine, but for the Russian Federation, for Moldova and some countries - a simple system of aprobation tests in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u86	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. We will now proceed to another interview, namely Mr Vladimír Zlínský, who will also aim for the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u87	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in connection with your government's recommended use of respirators and drapes from nanomaterials, I politely ask you to support studies that refute the conclusions published in the reputable publication Toxicology Evolution Risk Assessment and Management, published by Taylor & Francis Group in 2018, where on page 82 it is stated that nanomaterial accumulation occurs after inhalation in the lungs, in the pleura, liver, kidneys, heart, brain, and which led you and a team of responsible experts to this fall to authorise their mass use during the covid-19 epidemic. On page 225 of this publication it is also stated that there is also the possibility of developing incurable deadly neurodegenerative diseases after inhalation of these nanomaterials. I also ask for proof of studies that clearly disproves the possibility of creating a whole plejada of other diseases, which according to this professional publication could arise as a result of the inhalation of nanomaterials from masks or respirators made from nanomaterials. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now the Minister of Health has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I got a text from the Ministry of Answers, but thank you so much for that. Basically, I've been running a panel for 20 years, so now, of course, not biomedical research, but one part of that panel is nanotextiles. The fundamental difference between nanoparticles and nanotextilies needs to be realised and I will try to explain why nanotextilies are essential for the Czech Republic and for protection against viruses. We need to be told that we're a superpower of nanotextiles. We have developed a nanotextilite machine, unfortunately the patent of the first type of device was not worldwide and I thank all those colleagues from Kladno and others who patented the other device worldwide and it can be said that we could, if there is good support - and I believe that it will, the Minister will certainly help me in doing so - with nanotextilie rule the world. How does nanoparticles differ from nanotextiles? You probably know that, because you were preparing for an interpellation, that nanoparticles have a charge and that's one of the problems. They've got nanotextiles, too. But the nanotextiles don't release nanoparticles, so de facto the filtration activity of the nanotextilies is given by the tiny ones - I'll say lay-faced, and so the droplets - and we know that covid is spreading in aerosols - they don't get through the respirator out and in. But in addition, the nanotextilies have charge between the individual fibers in the creators, so they bind the viruses, so it's all the more they filter out the air with the viruses out than the normal respirators. It is a fact that there are studies that confirm this with nanotextiles, and they are studies that have just been carried out on animals in the panel that I have chaired. Then they were standard studies, clinical trials. Nanotextiles began to be used a lot in practice, but the fact is that the price of nanotextiles was high. By being a covid here, by being an incentive for manufacturers to start, we got to relatively low prices of nanotextiles, large-capacity knitting machines did a great deal of production. I am from the opposition - and I must say, in cooperation with some of the members of the government - very supportive of this, I say this openly, and I think the positive effect is that we have some of the best Czech nanorespirators. Another thing is whether or not wearing a respirator and a drape is problematic. Here I would like to draw attention, and she is beautifully traceable on Pubmed, on metaanalysis, I think from the United States - I now don't know if she's from Pittsburgh, which I would make up, and she's comparing 70 studies where she compared individual types of masks, respirators, healthy people with different types of diseases, how much oxygen is decreased in the inhaled air, how much humidity is increased, what is the risk of internal infection, if it has any effect on the heart, if in some way it gets worse, say telemetrically measured ECG and others, and find that the effect is zero. It was one of the meta-analysis, probably the largest, it was 70 studies that actually said that a drape or a respirator had no negative effect. Of course, it has certain conditions, we can't wear a respirator for six months and lay it all over the place, let it infect him secondarily and so on, but we both know that as doctors. So for me - it is necessary to support nanotextiles, it is necessary to be very cautious about nanoparticles - I would say fabric coated with silver, antibacterial, we know that, socks, underwear. The colloid silver is completely different, both silver, and it is necessary, and I agree to support this industry and nanotextiles in the Czech Republic so that with the help of other studies through the AZV panel, through the biomedical panel, I have tried to forge this in order to become exporters in health care throughout the world. This is extremely useful for the Czech industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u90	Thank you, too, Minister. There's an interest in a follow-up question, obviously. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u91	Of course, I was asking about the possible side effects that could arise if the microfibers on the surface with the nanoparticles get into the lungs. From the information I have, it has been found that parts of the microplastics are even getting into the blood, so I'm afraid for those microparticles of fibers that could theoretically be cut off, that this might also happen. So I would have planned to make studies the best of many years, how it affects the human organism, these microparticles in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u92	Thank you for your follow-up. Once again, the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much. In particular, I fully understand and agree with this, but I repeat once again: the grants that AZV and the biomedical panel dealt with in relation to nanotextiles, and in this panel one of the six grants has always been on this issue - nanotextiles and wound healing, nanotextiles and various materials, nanotextiles and protection of patients, nanotextiles and protection of health professionals - have clearly shown that there is zero risk. No nanotextile particles on these knitting machines. This has to be repeated all the time. On the Czech patents that the team invented from the textile university and develops them and makes them, I think Professor Kůs and here the group, there is no release here. I'm glad you're picking up the subject, and thank you so much for that. I would really like the Czech Republic - unfortunately this has not happened with the previous government, but I understand that there have been other priorities - that I would say even Czech gold, at least in textiles and on this issue - to support and to make the most of the fact that we have this monopoly, that we have developed this and that we really become exporters to the whole world, and even to become the main exporter of drapes, not from China to the Czech Republic, but from the Czech Republic to China and the Americans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u94	Thank you. We will now proceed to another interview by Mrs Jana Berkovcová, who will interpel the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u95	Thank you. Minister, I appeal to you in connection with the revision of the framework education programmes, which include, among other things, the abolition of compulsory teaching of the second foreign language in basic education and its transfer between so-called compulsory optional subjects. This conclusion was reached by the expert panel of the Ministry of Education, but among its members there is not one expert on foreign languages. I have devoted my entire professional life to language education, and I am very concerned about the development and discussion of foreign languages, where it goes, and absolutely ignores all the suggestions from the professional public, professional associations, associations of English, French, German, who call for the maintenance of compulsory teaching of two foreign languages. Similarly, a number of diplomatic representations in the Czech Republic, representatives of Chambers of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce are expressed. And you, Minister, call this commotion hysteria. The most common argument for abolishing a second foreign language is that some children are not able to speak Czech or English, let alone a second foreign language. But we can't think like that. Some children have problems with mathematics, it is difficult for them, and we will not cancel their math. In addition, experience has shown that the second language that has been taught since the seventh grade often entertains children more than the first language, which is mostly English, which has been taught since the third grade, and often another language means a new motivation for some pupils to study foreign languages, especially for those pupils who, for some reason, do not like the first foreign language or are unsuccessful in it. [[16.40 hours]] Moreover, such acquired foreign language basics, even if they do not continue in high school, can at any time become mature and learn a foreign language more quickly, for example for employment. Knowledge of more languages is crucial today for the labour market, given that German and French-speaking countries are among the main investors in the Czech Republic and often prefer their language to English in internal communication. In case of cancellation of compulsory teaching another... [[The President: The time, Madame, is up.]] ... yes, it will remain compulsory for schools to offer it as optional. The question is, what will happen to those language teachers where the view is uncertain? [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u96	And now the Minister of Education has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u97	Madam President, Madam President, to start with the facts. It's not a cancellation, but it's a choice for students. Schools will be obliged, I repeat the word mandatory, to offer a second foreign language. Pupils who can't do either can choose, for example, a conversation in the first language to handle at least one on a solid level. Third, fourth thing, you said I was ignoring stimuli. The opposite is true, Madame, unfortunately, the association of linguists and the Faculty of Education of Charles University did not invite anyone from the expert panel or from the Ministry of Education to its round table. We would like to accept the invitation. I certainly don't ignore stimuli. I'm sorry, you have misinformation. So far, it is only a proposal contained in the working version of the document Guidelines for revision of framework education programmes, and now the document is at the settlement stage of comments. There is no way in hell this is about canceling a second or another foreign language. All primary schools, according to proposals, will continue to be obliged to offer pupils another foreign language. The only difference will be that another foreign language will be optional for the pupil if he or she is not interested in studying another foreign language by his or her own will, he or she will be able to choose another optional subject offered by the school. This is a model that works similarly in other European Union countries, such as Spain, Sweden or Belgium. In some countries of the European Union, another foreign language is optional without the school's obligation to offer it, for example in Slovakia, Ireland or Hungary. The public is not opposed to this move. On the contrary, it is what we define by the professional public. If we were to talk about school teachers and school directors, then at meetings and workshops to revise the framework education programmes, the ratio of the themes for the abolition of duty and the compulsory option versus the preservation of the circus was nine to one. The Ministry of Education is now preparing a rapid survey in schools on this subject to confirm the figures. I believe the linguists will be involved. It was the number of incentives from teachers and directors that was the initial impulse to take this step. They were the ones who triggered this step in the expert panel. If we consider only language teachers, of course, the ratio would be different, but according to our knowledge, even in this case, i.e. exclusively among language teachers, the support of the option prevails. Of course, some interest groups, which you are obviously a representative of, do not agree with the intention given the particular interests. It is logical, but it is only a certain part of the professional public. The aim of the change is to improve the quality of foreign language teaching so that they do not delay you slower, because the teacher, as you know, must adjust his pace to those weaker in the classroom so that those who really want to learn a second foreign language or another foreign language, so that they are not delayed by the weaker ones, so that the classes are smaller. We are already considering a class of five pupils, when teaching another foreign language will be significantly better than, for example, in a class where there are 25 pupils. We also want to strengthen the motivation of pupils, help pupils who cannot master the teaching of two foreign languages. We want to strengthen the co-responsible factor of the pupil for his education. Greater freedom of choice for pupils, individualization, these are the Principles of the 2030 Strategy, which your Minister of Education has pushed through for YES, and I am very grateful to him for that. We also want to improve school relations. It can be added that, unfortunately, there is also no continuity of teaching another foreign language in secondary schools. Many branches of secondary schools do not have this obligation. But even at grammar schools, for example, there is no guarantee that an elementary school student will study the same language. That's why everything starts from the beginning. Finally, the obligation to teach another foreign language in many schools means that pupils do not have a choice and must learn to determine the specific language that the school has identified, which is also not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u98	Thank you, Minister. Madame, are you interested in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u99	Minister, I am not a member of any interest group or lobbyist group, I have devoted the last fifteen years to further education of educators, mainly in language education. That means I have a lot of contacts between people in the professional public, between university representatives, faculty teachers and professional associations, and they're turning to me for help, and I understand them. I understand. About the option of the foreign language, the other foreign language. There is still a risk that if a sufficient number of pupils do not register, the language will not open, the group will not open. That's a risk. It is not yet said how many pupils are the minimum to open the language group. What about the language teachers? They go somewhere where their language skills apply, and we lose qualified, good German teachers, French teachers. And pupils today who are weak in foreign languages, according to the current RVP, pupils with specific learning disabilities, have the opportunity to be freed from teaching a foreign language and to have a different language instead. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u100	The minister will react with verva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u101	I told you. I am able to consider a group from three or five pupils, which you will certainly confirm as a lecturer that it means a significant quality change. I don't even think there's a problem with the teacher. The teaching languages are a continuous shortage, and if we reduce those groups, it will allow the school head within PHmax to open more of those foreign languages. This means that there can be French at school by five, German by five and conversations in English for the remaining ones as the first foreign language for example. Of course, every school will be different. So I don't think that would mean anything negative to the teacher. I believe that this will not affect language teachers in any negative way. On the contrary, I think they will learn better in smaller groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u102	Thank you and we will now proceed to the interview of Mr Tomáš Müller and then Mr Josef Flek can prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u103	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, Dear Minister Síkela, it has long been shown that one of the essential ways in which the Czech Republic can get rid of dependence on fossil fuels from the Russian Federation and how our citizens can achieve a significant price reduction in energy prices is massively building renewable resources. Therefore, I would like to ask you: What concrete steps has your ministry taken in supporting new installations of renewable resources, what are written or still planned programmes of financial support for the construction of renewable resources, and what other form do you want to support smaller installations on the roofs as stated and written in the programme statement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u104	Thank you and now the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u105	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words to support the installation of renewable energy sources, the so-called RES. We are trying to support the development of the RES in several ways, including investment subsidies, operating subsidies and other, say, soft measures, which include simplifying authorisation processes, but also facilitating integration into the electricity system. As far as investment subsidies are concerned, the Modernisation Fund, which has the Ministry of Environment and is managed by the Environment Fund, plays a major role here. With regard to the development of renewable energy sources, the Modernization Fund has already launched the first challenges in the RES Plus programme with allocation at the level of 4 billion Czech crowns. Based on preliminary results, 500 megawatt photovoltaic sources should be implemented on the basis of these calls. In March 2022, our Ministry launched a call to support photovoltaic sources for entrepreneurs from the National Recovery Plan of another CZK 1 billion. Overall, we allocated CZK 5 billion from the National Recovery Plan to the development of photovoltaic resources, which should lead to development at the level of the circa 270 megawatt depending on prices. It is also expected to be possible to purchase accumulation. [[16.50 hours]] The development of the RES specifically for entrepreneurs is further envisaged within the Operational Programme for Technology and Competitiveness, the so-called OPTIK. The Ministry of Environment is primarily responsible for supporting the development of the RES for the household sector, which does so mainly through the New Green Savings Programme. As regards operating aid, the amendment to Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Sources, which provides a framework for support of RES and other supported sources. This framework provides for an auction system for the allocation of operating aid for larger resources over 1 megawatt with certain exceptions, in particular on the basis of the so-called green bonus, which is a market development support instrument. We are currently finalizing the implementing legislation for this law and at the same time communicating with the European Commission in order to notify this aid scheme. As regards the simplification of the authorisation processes, in this respect, we have transposed the requirements of the Renewable Energy Directive, in particular Art. 15 to 17 of this directive, by regulating energy legislation, but also other legislation, in particular the Construction Act. We are now also focusing on simplifying the authorisation processes within the so-called SMED project, which builds on the European RES Simplify project, and we have already managed to identify some barriers that we will try to gradually remove. The partial simplification of administrative processes will also enable a new energy law, which should in some way simplify the process of obtaining a so-called energy licence, or define which entities must have that licence and which do not. Madam, honourable Members, thank you for your interest in the development of renewable energy sources, which we consider to be very important in view of the current situation and the contribution of these resources to reducing energy dependence. In this context, I want to add, I was in Brussels on this Monday, I met with two European Commissioners and also with the Director-General of the Energy Commission, yesterday I met with another Commissioner and I called on all these high-ranking policies within the European Commission and experts to help us adjust the conditions of the National Development Plan so that we could respond even more to the situation and invest even more in renewable resources, as well as to help us accelerate all building permits regarding all energy sources. [[Time, Minister.]] [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u106	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? It is not, so we will proceed to another interpellation, namely, Mr. Josef Flek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u107	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I will continue and follow up on a colleague with an interview with Minister Síkela. I'd like to ask you a few times about the retraceable security interventions on fuel. Of course, as has been said several times, the only thing that cannot be supplied is panic, which is why I would like to hear from your mouth how we are on the security of fuel supply at both the Czech Republic and European level. I would also ask if you are wondering, apart from the two pipelines that bring oil to us, if you are thinking about introducing a third pipeline, and later I will continue with an additional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u108	Thank you. Now the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela, has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u109	Once again, Madam President, honourable Members, Mr Flek, thank you for the question and I would like to assure you that, after the opposition pushed us here to adjust fuel prices at a time when there was above average consumption of up to 50 per cent more than in the past period, we have managed to resolve the potential lack of fuel at petrol stations very smoothly, our citizens have felt nothing, and fuel prices have stabilized and decreased thanks to our measures. To your question about the new oil pipelines, I say that there are two oil-processing refineries located in the Czech Republic: Litvínov refinery with a capacity of 5.5 million tons of oil per year and Kralupy, which have about 3.5 million tons. Both refineries are owned by the Polish PKN ORLEN Group and you have noticed that energy security topics have also become the subject of a presidential visit from the Republic of Poland yesterday and will certainly be the subject of the Prime Minister's meeting this week. PKN ORLEN also buys oil from global suppliers for these refineries. For the Litvínov refinery, most of the oil from the Russian Federation goes, it is about 50 per cent of the import of this commodity into the Czech Republic, exclusively through the Družba pipeline, which runs through Ukraine. For the refinery Kralupy it is then mainly from the Caspian region, that is Azerbaijan, it is the so-called sweet oil with low sulphur content, and Kazakhstan, because it is designed to process these lighter, sweeter oil and for their delivery was also connected to the Western pipeline TAL, that is the pipeline that goes from Trieste, and to this was conquered by the pipeline IKL, which in the node Ingolstadt to the TAL. A possible short-term drop in oil supplies from the Russian Federation by the Družba pipeline is ensured by the release of oil from the emergency reserves of the Treasury. Its volume, together with the volumes of already finished fuel stored in the event of a crisis, is currently more than 94 days of average consumption. To replace, in order to replace the supply of oil from the oil pipeline by supplies of oil of a similar type to the TAL and IKL pipeline, PKN Unipetrol needs approximately 30 to 40 days depending on the current market situation, which should be seamlessly covered by the State material reserves. However, the TAL oil pipeline is also the narrow place to supply domestic refineries in terms of free capacity, since while the IKL pipeline has sufficient capacity for the needs of both of our refineries, the TAL pipeline could only transport these new volumes in some parts of the year when the consumption is lower. The limit is to some extent the total capacity of the TAL pipeline from Trieste to the Ingolstadt region in the Federal Republic of Germany, since this pipeline is supplied in addition to us and Germany and also Austria. In terms of the operation of our refineries, i.e. refineries in our territory, that would be a problem. The TAL has a capacity of around 38 million tonnes per year on its first section in Italy and Germany. After the operational adjustments proposed by us, the Czech Republic, through the Czech shareholder of the pipeline, MERO Czech Republic, in a project called TAL+, capacity can be reached up to 44 million tonnes per year, which is an increase of some 6 million tonnes per year. Nevertheless, it is seen as necessary to increase the total capacity of the first part of the pipeline up to 48 million tonnes, which is solved by the TAL+ project, and an implementation study is prepared, which has been paid or invested in by the Czech Republic via MERO Czech Republic, which is actually one of the minority shareholders of this operated pipeline. At present, in the process of final approval, there is an operating permit for increasing the maximum flow of the TAL pipeline on German territory - sorry - up to 750 000 cubic meters per hour. [[Time, time, Mr. Secretary.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u110	I beg you to keep your time. And, Mr. Ambassador, you called for a follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u111	I would like to thank you because you mentioned the answers to my next question, so thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u112	So it's settled, there's no follow-up question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u113	So if I can still ask if it was necessary to reach fuel reserves until now, or is it still flowing to us without a problem from all these two pipes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u114	Thank you, and the Minister is approaching the speaker's stand with a response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u115	No, we don't touch reserves at this point because it's not necessary, and it's not even possible, we'd have to do that for a reason. The deliveries are so far smooth, and I'm going to use that extra time just to finish the thesis because we've managed to do something very important, and that's actually a technical increase in TAL's capacity. This is a long-term project that preceded the fulfilment of a number of technical and safety requirements by the pipeline operator. The approval procedure is in the competence of the Bavarian Environmental Protection Authority, and I actually asked Robert Habeck to support the progress of the Bavarian Authority's decision-making process as quickly as possible during our meeting of the Minister of Economy and Climate Protection of Germany. The aid was promised, so a positive decision would open the way for the TAL shareholders to subsequently decide on the second part, and this is a more significant increase in capacity, this is the TAL+ project that I mentioned, which would be a necessary and priority step to reduce dependence on oil supplies from the Russian Federation. It would take some time, we'd have to put some investment in it. TAL makes the investment conditional on the prospect of long-term use of capacity after the investment has been carried out. But it's because it's a pipeline that takes oil other than Russian oil, that's the Azerbaijani sweet oil and the Kazakh oil, so it's definitely a solution for us and the way we want to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u116	Thank you, Minister. Now I do not see Mr Kolovratník in the hall, or his interpellation is failing. Next up is Mrs Lenka Knechtová, with an interview with the Minister of Education. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u117	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am being approached by citizens and mayors from the South Moravian Region in connection with the problem of the lack of capacity of kindergarten schools. This problem is also reinforced by the number of pre-school children from Ukraine. We are in a situation where funding for project documentation and the construction of kindergarten schools cannot be managed by municipalities purely from their budget. Therefore, they are keenly seeking the offer of possible grant support. Unfortunately, the promotion of nursery capacity building projects from an integrated regional operational programme through the ITI has decreased significantly. I have information that there has been a change in the score just for ITI, originally the 4+ limit to currently 6+. I understand the intention and objectives of the Ministry of Education, which is to ensure sufficient capacity for children in regions threatened with the greatest lack of capacity in pre-school education. However, my request, that is to say, reducing the threshold of supporting ORPs to level 4+ is not contrary to this objective. In addition, the ITI is based on the logic of applying so-called integrated solutions whose synergy effects bring higher added value to the territory. Is it possible, Minister, to open negotiations and look for solutions to the satisfaction of both parties, and in particular to help develop the territory of the Czech Republic as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u118	Thank you, Madame, and now the Minister of Education has responded. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u119	I'm sorry, I'm just breathing. Madam President, Madam President, I am addressing the problem that you are currently talking about both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Regional Development. As a matter of fact, today I had a meeting with the Minister for Regional Development on the possible increase of funds to this part or to a programme aimed at the construction of kindergarten schools. The determination of the so-called score is currently the topic of negotiations between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Regional Development. In this case, the Ministry of Education is the content gesture, with the theme of its own intervention primarily in the Gesture of the Ministry for Regional Development and the managing body of the IROP. In view of the development of the situation, we are actually leaning towards a 4+ score in ensuring an advantage for a region with a higher score, particularly those of 9, 8 and 7, where the situation is critical in the long term. The instrument in the form of a score determination arose in a situation with a significantly limited allocation of IROP to pre-school education, which does not even reach remote absorption capacity of municipalities. The Ministry of Education created a data model for support from IROP funds, taking into account the fullness of kindergarten schools in aggregation to the administrative district of municipalities with extended scope. In the model we proceeded to arbitrary determination of the score of individual territories based on data and reporting of the Ministry of Education together with predictions of the Czech Statistical Office with a range of values 0 to 10. The territory with scores above 6, i.e. in those intended aids concerned, is faced with a total lack of capacity to ensure legal entitlement to the placement of a child in a kindergarten. In the case of sites, scores 4 and 5 may exceptionally be insufficient capacity assurance. We are also finding out the possibility of further support for the construction of nursery schools and general support for the availability of pre-school education, as it is a segment with the greatest capacity problem. The last part is precisely the time when Ukrainian refugees come in such massive numbers, and that was what today's meeting with the Minister for Regional Development - an increase in this part of the IROP chapters. Then we are ready to change that score 4+ if there is no increase in funds. Then we will continue to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u120	Thank you, Minister. And is there an interest in a follow-up question? It is not, or we can proceed to the following interview by Mrs Marie Pošarová, who is targeting Minister Ivan Bartoš. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u121	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to ask that Czech citizens have had a problem with housing so far, there were no apartments in the cities, and suddenly the Ukrainian crisis has appeared and apartments have begun to appear. I was wondering, the apartments were blocked, that these people had been waiting for it for x years? That's the first question. Furthermore, I would like to ask you about the programme on preferential housing loans for young families. About 700 million crowns were allocated there, on 14 April they were collected, and as far as the State Investment Support Fund is concerned, it was said that the money ran out that the loans had been suspended. My point is that I was making an amendment to this, where I asked for an increase of CZK 1 billion, because I knew that energy prices were rising, the prices of building materials were increasing, and I was concerned if there would be a new budget and if you were planning to increase the amounts to this programme, because in this way thousands of young families lost the opportunity to buy their own housing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u122	Thank you, Madame, and now Vice-President of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u123	Thank you for the question, first and second. The first one is probably heading towards the amendment of two government orders from 24. 2. 2022, when we approved them in government. This was the government's order to administer the State Investment Fund for a long time, and on the basis of these, rental apartments are created for specific population groups. These are the construction programs and the rental apartments program. Based on this program under the SFPI, so-called social apartments are created in municipalities and those social apartments are then determined by the nature of the loan in which they can be used. Target groups in those programmes were defined fairly strictly. For the construction program, low income is a determining element in connection with another handicap and in the program Rent apartments in addition to the low income then also age 65+, health status, age up to 30 years or disability of life disaster. [[17.10 hours]] And the fact that is defined here in this area often leads to the fact that these apartments are vacant in some of the municipalities, because at the moment no one in the target group is interested in these apartments, because the character of their life situation cannot even apply for the apartment. But it may turn up again soon because of some life situation, that such an apartment will be needed. And that was the fundamental reason why we were asked by the authorities towards the State Investment Support Fund whether such an apartment could be used and the conditions which could be changed, under which conditions the apartment could be used, such as the duration of the lease agreement. For national programmes, there is no need to expand those groups, because if the target group is not interested in such an apartment, it is possible to place anyone in the apartment for a period of one year. So I can assure you that these are units of flats, if that question was going to that. And once again, I stress that this is an option for self-government, and it was a response to the mayor's demand whether they could have such flats, because there are conditions, without violating the rules on which money was made available for their establishment or for construction. Otherwise, aside from the housing crisis, we currently have the preparation of the law on available housing, which is a bill that supports housing, and its main objective is to give the municipalities a tool to expand their housing fund in a way. I do not intend to talk about social, because this is only one part of it. We do not want to forget about young people, about seniors, about beneficial professions in general, so the law is about the creation of affordable housing. And your second question-- I'm trying to go into the time limit, and I can fit. I inherited my construction program. I watched how the program was historically used. So you said thousands - I, if I'm not mistaken, used about 400 people last year to build a loan with favourable interest. I do not quite think that the Ministry of Regional Development or the SFPI and priori should substitute, say, commercial mortgage products, but there were some limited resources in the programme, nor were they counted in the budget, and they were exhausted in April. And I also declared that I wanted to do a revision of the SFPI Construction program - why municipalities do not use it, there are limiting parameters for how much a meter can be rented - so let's say these financial programs and actually find a mix that can be used for it. In this respect, I am negotiating with the National Development Bank, in this regard we have discussed, for example, templates for the construction of more accessible housing, projects with the European Investment Bank. I don't really think that my construction program in the volume that he could have provided, even in the parameters, is the main role of the Ministry of Regional Development. I am glad that it helped satisfy the needs of 400 people who then built a house or could reconstruct something, but from the point of view of housing availability it is a really small drop in the sea. I would rather work in the future as well as in the new national programmes with things that have a wider impact and which - unlike, for example, the Construction programme in the previous parliamentary term, when the SAO's report on how it was not drawn, no matter what locations there were - would have worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u124	Thank you for keeping time, and I see that the honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u125	I'll be back. You said these people might not be interested in that, that there were 400 of them, but it's actually now seen that people were more interested in it. After all, there were 700 million, it was already over in April and there was a minimum requirement for CZK 730 million, which means there is interest. Well, that's in the front row. And others, as regards the construction of social housing for municipalities. I'll tell you from my experience, I consulted with a few mayors, and they told me that they're happy today that they don't have social housing or housing units, because it's just causing problems in the community, whether in the context of a refugee crisis right now, they don't have any concerns about it. But the other problem is that if they had them, most of the time, the state is pushing them and moving the troubled groups. And that's why they don't want it. [[President: Time, Madame.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u126	Mr. Vice Prime Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u127	I cannot imagine the second scenario where the state would push Czech citizens to move to another community because social housing is available there. I follow the situation in Moravia as well as in the Ústí Region, where it actually works by a fictional company issuing a contract for work, on which basis these people apply in the village and then ask for available housing. Therefore - and I will stress this - we are talking about the law on available housing. In the European context, as well as in other countries such as Sweden, such as England, even if it is no longer part of the European Union, there is talk of affordable housing - accessible housing. This means economically affordable housing, whether rented or able to buy the housing. Social housing as such, of course, requires related social services, it is intended for specific cases, if there is a case in the village, or if there are some apartments that the community has for some critical moment, when there is some violence in the family on the woman, so that they can place the person. Of course, municipalities should strengthen their housing fund in general, be able to provide their citizens with municipal housing. It's not my fault that, after the '90s, housing funds were heavily privatized when communities or individuals needed to make a quick living. I think we should go along the way of restoring the municipal funds of individual municipalities with which they can have them. Maybe they can get a job in the region, whether it's a teacher or a doctor or a dentist or something like that. So let's talk about affordable housing. I certainly refuse that the government would force citizens to move into cities because there would be social housing. And if the community does not need social housing in its territory for the citizens who are there, then that is good, I congratulate such a community.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u128	Thank you, Minister. And before there's another interview, I'm gonna load an apology. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes, due to negotiations in the electoral region from 15.30 to the end of the day. And now I will ask everyone to keep the bell down, and it is Mrs Zuzana Ožanová's turn to intersect. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u129	Thank you, Madam President. I'd have an interview with Minister Bek. Minister, I would like to interpel you on the issue of unequal access to trainees within the Czech Presidency in the EU. There has been a report in the media that some interns have government-funded accommodation and travel. However, those who have been selected later must pay for both accommodation and travel from the Erasmus+ budget. Students expect that they would have to invest at least EUR 3,000 in their own savings in six months, and they will not have time to make extra money in an internship to cover these small expenses. They stress that for them the aim of the internship is not to earn money, but to gain experience that they would like to take advantage of in future occupations. I ask, then, how is it possible that some interns will be reimbursed and others won't? Do you consider this approach transparent? Are you going to make a change in the financing of accommodation for interns? I'd ask for an answer, and not only that, I'd ask if it could be more than 30 days from now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u130	As the Minister is present, the answer will be immediate. Please, Minister, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question, because it is an opportunity for me to premiere in the House of Interpelations, and it is part of the irony of history that this interpelation is pointing at me by mistake, because the question concerns the presence of interns on permanent representation, whose financial and personnel management is the sovereign authority of the State Department. However, given the media attention that this thing has raised, I have been trying to pick up the poodle's cores in the last few days, and I will try to tell you the truth about what I've learned. [[17.20 hours]] I think that thing has two aspects. The debate on the presence of interns on permanent representation has taken place since last year and is part of an excited debate that occurred when the public and the media found out how low the budget was set by the last government for the Czech Presidency, and a debate started, which I think was going a little in an unfortunate direction, because it began to suggest that the purpose of the internship on permanent representation was to obtain cheap labour. Since then, there have been various budget corrections by both the last government and our government, and today it is clear that permanent interns will not replace diplomats, but it is a standard type of internship that, as you rightly said, aims to offer those interns a professional experience that they will assess in their next work, and we are hoping that they will also be recruited by future representatives of the Czech Republic in the structures of the European Union, where we have a great handicap on behalf of Czech workers. It should be said that as I was able to examine the situation and get a statement of permanent representation, there are two groups of interns. The first one is shaped by the care of the Diplomatic Academy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It has taken a special course in the past and originally offered a scholarship of EUR 500, which was budgeted by the Office of the Government amounting to a total of CZK 2 million, which was transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time these scholarships in the first group were offered the possibility of accommodation and transport. This is a group that goes to so-called diplomatic internships and has received special training. But then part of the students - or all - found that Erasmus+ scholarships are more financially advantageous, and because they are students of their universities, they decided to use this instrument, which is standard university, to get an Erasmus+ scholarship. That's the first group. She has an offer of accommodation and travel. The students' interest in internships during the Presidency is much greater, so the permanent representation has offered additional positions, only within Erasmus+ scholarships, which are simply a fixed amount. It's the type of internships that are normally organized by universities, and I have a wealth of professional experience with it. Thousands of such internships are carried out in various institutions abroad and have all the same conditions. It's just the Erasmus+ scholarship. Based on what I know today, I believe that providing additional benefits to ordinary scholarships beyond scholarships would be discrimination against other scholarships, which are broadcast from universities every year a lot, and the government has no way of additionally entering the game with a special offer. I was also assured that all those scholarships knew the conditions they were entering. I understand that some of them feel in a worse position than the first group, which has undergone training and is broadcast by the diplomatic academy under the terms agreed last year. All these conditions were set during last year, and those scholarships should basically be clear about what they're getting into. I understand that this raises questions, on the other hand, if we reach out to any extra extra help with the accommodation of other scholarships, we are actually putting a few hundred or a thousand other scholarships who are leaving the Czech Republic under the Erasmus+ programme. [[Your time.]] So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u132	Thank you, Minister. There is an obvious interest in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u133	Thank you, Mr President. I thank you for your preparation, Minister, but I do remember that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a tender which was on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and where the offer was made by internships, not scholarships. I might recommend this verification. So the Ministry actually chose these interns themselves. And now I'm wondering if these interns have different conditions. However, I will, of course, submit this interview to the Minister of Foreign Affairs as well, because I thought that, given your focus on European affairs, you would have more information as this concerns the Czech Presidency in the European Union. However, I will specify these questions to Minister Lipavský. However, I would like to point out that a petition has been submitted to those students. Because, frankly, I didn't get the information I gave today from the media, I got it from the students.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u134	Your time, Madame. Does the Minister still want to respond? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u135	Of course, I don't have any direct information as to whether the conditions are exactly the same between the group selected by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Maybe that's worth the attention. On the other hand, I repeat, to favour standard scholarships posted by their universities anywhere is something that would be a step that the government cannot defend, because we would have to create a level playing field for all Erasmus+ scholarships.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u136	Thank you. We will proceed to another interview by Mrs Jana Hanzlíková. Please, madam, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u137	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my intervention is directed at the absent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and is on the subject of young adults leaving institutional or foster care. Last year, the amendment to the Children's Social Protection Act introduced a provision that is paid to an elderly person who is still an dependent child, after leaving institutional or foster care. So it's a new institute that showed up in the field. Such a young adult must have an individual plan drawn up and provide synergies to the social curator. The individual plan deals with, for example, separate management, practical issues regarding housing search and housing or employment. What's the problem? This problem arises in young people who require in this respect really very intense accompanying and support because they lack information, but above all they lack any practical experience. In such cases, meetings with a social curator may not be sufficient for about a month - sometimes a longer delay - because these meetings are mostly focused only on counseling, but there is really a need for practical training, even in the young person's home environment. In recent years, I have several suggestions and information on problems precisely in ensuring this more intensive support in practice, as well as on the large differences in this support in individual regions, as well as on the small awareness of young adults themselves about this possibility. I therefore ask how the aid mentioned is ensured, whether there is any methodology or instructions for social curators, how they are to provide intensive support for a young adult, and how young adults themselves are informed of this possibility. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u138	I beg you to keep your time. Thank you for your contribution. And now I don't see Mrs Andrea Babišová in the room, so her interpellation is failing. Next up is Mr Lubomír Brož. We will therefore proceed to his intervention aimed at the Minister of Finance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u139	Thank you. Dear Minister, we are in a rather difficult economic situation, which will affect not only natural persons, but also, of course, natural entrepreneurs and, of course, legal persons. My question is directed at the physical business people. At present, the limit for entry into the flat-rate tax scheme and the obligation to pay VAT is relatively low. The VAT cap of 1 million is based on the amount negotiated when we joined the European Union in 2004, and has therefore not changed for 18 years despite, of course, significant changes in price levels. Following an increase in the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million and the parallel extension of flat-rate taxes, entrepreneurs are calling and this would be a significant step towards reducing the administrative burden and the financial burden, and it would concern more than 100,000 entrepreneurs, if I have the correct information. [[17.30 hours]] Of course, I am familiar with the fact that already in November the Ministry of Finance left the request to increase the turnover limit for VAT exemption to EUR 85 000, so the imaginary ball is on the side of the European Union. However, it is precisely because we are dealing with high inflation in relation to the situation this year that these limits are even more burdensome and restrictive. So I wanted to ask if there is any shift in this matter, whether the European Commission has already expressed itself to the Council of the European Union, and whether it is possible to help entrepreneurs earlier to mitigate the effects of the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and now the Minister of Finance, if I may, please. Take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u141	Good afternoon. According to the Government's programming statement, we want to increase the mandatory VAT registration limit to 2 million, and it is in the logic of the matter to increase the flat-rate tax threshold at that point. Our ambition is to bring it to the House in about half a year, so that both new borders apply for the next tax period from 1 January 2023. In November, the Czech Republic asked by letter - nothing else - for an exception that, from 1 January 2025, this would be fully within the competence of the Member States, the EUR 85 000. We're taking steps like the Treasury Department to get that exemption on January 1, 2023. I'm an optimist at this point. It is not yet agreed, but negotiations are ongoing on a working level, and I am optimistic. I think, from our estimates, it could be about 105,000 subjects, we'll see if some of them stay as volunteer payers, that's their decision according to their particular business plan. I agree with you that this can bring a reduction in bureaucratic burdens to many, and it is a good thing. And when I said I saw the logic to make one threshold for mandatory VAT registration, we're also preparing an increase in that threshold for the possibility of applying a flat-rate tax to $2 million. I assume that the proposal of the Ministry of Finance will be in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings no later than two weeks later, after settling the comments, I will submit it to the Government and then to the Chamber of Deputies, however, from the statements of all the political parties that are in the Chamber of Deputies, I expect a rather technical debate, perhaps some parameters, but I do not expect any major political conflict, because I believe that all the members of Parliament support both these conditions. So I believe that the proposal will be prepared so that even the changes will not be so many, but it will certainly not be a debate that we could not, in the framework of the amendment, change one of the parameters of the prepared bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u142	Thank you. There's no more interest in the follow-up question. And so we will proceed to the next interpellation, with which it is Mr Hubert Lang's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u143	Madam President, thank you for the floor. The absent Home Secretary who apologized... As a member of the Security Committee and a member of the ANO movement I have a question for the Minister of the Interior, I would specify: How is the identity of migrants from Ukraine verified by Romani nationality who have recently appeared in the Czech Republic in the context of the migration crisis and are a significant problem? I would like to put this in a context. We have gradually adopted strategies on the Security Committee since the migration crisis. Security Committee 10. 3, 31. 3, 14. 4. We have spoken quite openly about possible cases where, with the large migration wave - to date 314 583 visas are temporary protection - people who will not be fully adaptable and people, as I mentioned somewhere, will also come in criminally defective. It was used in a certain shorthand. I never said that only criminally defective persons would come from Ukraine, but also those who might have some unfortunate influence on our society. And, hey, here are the first cases, we've registered, and we've recorded more than 3,000 Rom people from Zakarpati in the press. They are Rom people who are illiterate, Rom people who have just taken advantage of the situation and are not refugees before the war from my point of view, but are purely economic refugees, many of them with double citizenship, when many of them have been found not only Ukrainian citizenship but also Hungarian citizenship. I ask in this context - do these people really need temporary protection visas, to provide them with a humanitarian benefit of CZK 5,000, when we have fought a great deal here, when yesterday the government approved with great power that households with income of up to CZK 1 million will receive CZK 5,000, sometime in the autumn, for one child? And here we will give CZK 5,000 to people who, in my opinion, are not in the field of fighting, they are just taking advantage of this situation, and they are purely economic migrants who feed on this disaster. [[Time.]] [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u144	Thank you. And, of course, the excused Home Secretary will reply in writing within 30 days. Mrs Eva Fialová is applying for another interview. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u145	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to interpel Mr Marian Jurečka on the financing of the municipal campaign from the budget of the MPSV. Minister 11. 4. he made a trip to the Ústí Region, for which I am very happy, it is absolutely okay, and ended it at the end of the debate with the citizens, which is also absolutely okay, where at least he learned what the real state of officials from the offices of work and the frustration of individual citizens in the Ústí Region is. But what interested me in his invitation was that the event organized by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and published on its social networks was such a small statement that he would also participate in the candidate for Mayor of Ústí nad Labem - I will not say the name, but he is a member of the KDU-ČSL movement - and at the same time the same invitation was created under the header of the same place for the same hour under the colours of KDU-ČSL, at the same time the invitation of the association for which the candidate for Mayor will be running. And I'm asking, how much did this campaign cost because it ran out on Instagram that this campaign with this statement, or this event, finances, organizes and sponsors the MPSV? So I'd like to know how much money went to the graphics editing of these events, how much a single trip cost, or renting a hall, and sponsoring itself on social networks. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u146	Thank you, Madame. Once again, the Minister will reply in writing. And now next up is Mrs Karla Maříková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u147	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have already consulted the Prime Minister on this matter, but he was not specific, so I hope to learn more from you. I have been approached by a number of citizens who are drowning solid fuels, that they currently have different waiting lists or can buy only limited quantities, whether briquettes or coal, and the wood has increased by up to 200 percent. I wonder how you're going to deal with this because solid fuels can happen if they're not or if they're not in sufficient quantities? People, as I learned from the Prime Minister, can change the way of heating with the support of the state, but of course it is not from day to day and, of course, not everywhere it is technically possible, and even from the citizen it can be a small investment and it does not have to have it. So I'd like to hear that if something like this happens, that really the amount of these solid fuels will be so limited that people just won't have it and have no way of heating it, if you have a plan of how you're going to deal with it, or how you're going to deal with it operationally at this point? How are you gonna handle this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u148	Thank you for your intervention, Madame, and now with the Minister's reply. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u149	Madam President, Madam President, honourable Members, you have said that you have asked me the same questions as Prime Minister Fial. I apologize to you in advance that I may repeat myself in some of the thesis. First of all, let me assure you that we, of course, are monitoring the prices of solid fuels and the situation regarding their abundance or deficiency. We are in constant contact with coal miners and industry leaders, so that we can be informed in detail about their needs and respond appropriately to them. [[17.40 hours]] As far as the supply of industry is concerned, according to the plan for the extraction of solid fuels and existing supplies, the fulfilment of contractual obligations is envisaged and therefore also the satisfaction of market needs. However, the increase in prices of solid fuels is very difficult to predict. This, of course, depends, among other things, on the development of the war in Ukraine. Following Russia's aggression against Ukraine, the European Union imposed sanctions on imports of Russian coal. According to our information, these should have limited impact. We brought only 1.7 percent of our coal consumption from Russia in 2020. According to the information I have at my disposal, but it may have this ban - or it might have had an indirect impact - on the Czech Republic because Poland imported 10 to 12 million tons of coal from Russia each year for its energy needs, and the Czech Republic imports about 15 percent of its coal consumption from Poland. And we are now focusing on ensuring that the rules of the internal market of the European Union are respected and that the treaties that have been negotiated are respected. As the Prime Minister has already led, demand for solid fuels in households is currently growing in the Czech Republic. For brown sorted coal, demand is expected to be saturated. It is a domestic source from North Bohemia mines and supplies from Sev.en Energy. The situation is worse with black coal. I have already talked about the supplies from Poland and their dependence on supplies from Russia, and there we are trying to deal with this agreement with our partners in Poland.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u150	Thank you, Minister, and again there is an interest in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u151	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, although this is also definitely a question for the Minister of the Environment at the same time, the Green Deal and the whole situation associated with this, of course, are talking about ending coal mining and that we should switch to renewable resources. Given the situation in Ukraine with a lack of energy, gas, and you said yourself that the demand for solid fuels is growing, how do you see the government's steps further? Will you support what has been here in the past, or will we remain in the current situation that people will continue to use this way of heating until some perspective time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u152	Thank you, and the Minister is interested in responding. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u153	I guess I'll answer that in general, and that is that, of course, in terms of what's going on in the energy and fuel markets right now, we can hope for the best, but we have to prepare for the worst. The priority of the Czech Government is now to ensure, in the short term, sufficient supplies of energy and all necessary raw materials so that we have sufficient priority for households, of course also for critical infrastructure and the most important industry, and, if possible, also for the smooth functioning of the entire economy. We are taking a number of steps in this context. We help companies find new sources of raw materials, alternative places to import some commodities from, and, as I say, our priority is to ensure a stable operation of the economy and ensure all necessary supplies for households and critical infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u154	Thank you, Minister, and we will now proceed to another interview, but Mr Zdeněk Kettner, I look around, he is not in the hall, or his interpellation is failing. Next, it is Mrs Margita Balaštíková's turn, who is also not in the hall, so her interpellation is also failing, and it is Mr Hubert Lang's turn. Please note that Mr Patrik Nacher is excused, so his interpellation will also be withdrawn. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u155	Thank you, Madam President. The only member of the government present, I again raise another question to Minister Vít Rakušan in the context of the ongoing migration crisis. The question I will then justify will be: Is it, or is it not true, that President Zelenskyj, President of Ukraine, opened up prison and under some amnesty said that which of the prisoners-men will fight for Ukraine in the Ukrainian-Russian conflict will be amnesty? That's my question. Now I want to get to why I'm asking that question. I've asked the Minister about her several times. The Minister has put up such a struggle with me to send men who are coming in the context of the migration crisis back to Ukraine when they do not. I would like to inform you that there is a state of emergency in Ukraine. Ukrajinec have an obligation to enlist in the army and defend their country. We're putting in all kinds of humanitarian aid, and I kind of don't like it in the context of the migration crisis that some men are staying here. I'm not talking about men who are at some retirement age, I'm not talking about men who have three or more children, they're excluded from it. As I mentioned in the previous interpelation, we currently register 314 583 temporary protection visas. If it's said that 20 percent of this is men, and we subtract some of these men, then we have 40,000 men who don't meet the conditions of the elderly, men with three or more children. Again, I ask why these men will not return home and fight for Ukraine, why we have them here, why we should provide them with 5,000 crowns per day for six months. [[A month?]] And I ask if we have, or do we not have, lists of these released prisoners, because those incoming young men may be these released prisoners, who logically, if they have been locked up in Ukraine for months or years, they will certainly fight the Russian Federation after their release. I believe that they will come to the territory of the Czech Republic and that this is not desirable for our country in terms of security. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u156	I thank you for your time and you will receive an answer from the duly excused minister within 30 days in writing. Mr Patrik Nacher is also excused, so this interpellation is withdrawn, and we will proceed to the interpellation of Mrs Jana Hanzlíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u157	Thanks again for the word. My interpelation concerns the impact of the increase in fuel prices on social services. There's been a lot of talk about that here. At the moment, we are experiencing a huge wave of price increases of basically all commodities, so not only fuel, but here we have experienced the greatest rate of price increases, and this situation is very negative for all families, organizations, but also causes really serious financial problems for social services, especially those on the ground that provide assistance and support, first of all, to specific vulnerable groups, and provide it in a natural environment, which means everyday use of cars for them. This is mainly about personal assistance and care services. These services under Law 108 are financed by a subsidy form. They mostly ask at annual intervals and in such advance that they cannot actually take into account future financial fluctuations and changes when processing their budget. Some of these larger social services have up to 40 cars, sometimes even more, which at once for clients a really large number of kilometers, and their operation is increasingly expensive due to high fuel prices. I therefore ask what steps the MPSV will take to help these needy and important social services. Thank you for the answer I get in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u158	Thank you for your intervention, Madame, and now it is time for Mr Radek Koten to intercede again. Mrs Karla Maříková can prepare herself. I also welcome the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u159	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would very much like to ask about accommodation capacity, because here in the Czech Republic we had rather a need for rental housing, apartments and so on, and we were unable to provide adequate housing for the citizens of the Czech Republic, possibly single mothers, which I think would be the right word. And so now we have a crisis situation, and I really am not surprised at the enormous capacity of accommodation capacities of the Czech Republic, and even how quickly it was able to mobilise this capacity. [[17.50 hours]] So I would very much like to ask, so other apartments are to be built, what I at least found from the commonly available printing or from some Internet servers such as News.cz, iDNES and so on. So I would like to ask you why the government didn't do it when our citizens, our young families, our single mothers, needed it, because of course it's a huge group of people, and for what reason the government didn't even reflect on our citizens. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u160	Thank you for your interpelation and Mr. Vice Prime Minister Ivan Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. Ambassador. I've already partially responded to the previous interpellation. Oh, that's right. The situation with available housing on the Czech market, let it be a classic rental municipal housing, but also construction to the extent that flats are created, for example, malometric - which is often those apartments that are now used after reconstruction - are rustic. It's been an unsolved situation for eight years. When we got to the House, we wanted to work with the previous government as an opposition party to the Social Housing Act, which fell under the table of both Mr Sobotka's government four years ago and the government of Andrej Babiš. It was replaced by the Construction program, which was not set up quite well, and therefore the apartments did not arise in the municipalities. When you mention single mothers, of course, at this point, even using the housing supplement and various subsidies and various programs, you can also live in a commercial way of living, at the same time from the Integrated Regional Operational Programme is built on the village. Apartments are built where non-profit organizations and other entities own the apartments next to the municipalities. I am also at the Ministry of Regional Development, where we had those hundred days of government, recently prepared a program that, while at the moment, helps solve the housing situation for people fleeing from the war in Ukraine, but all these apartments and reconstructions are set up to go into municipal property to create, I think it is 120,000 per bed, they are in the property of municipalities, and if there is no interest at any given time, or if KACPU distributes it otherwise, those people who flee from the war or those who will return, they become apartments in accessible housing, and we try in every possible way to actually activate even the sleeping housing fund. She may not have to point the question entirely at the government - at every moment it may not be the state that builds apartments, they are often municipalities, and now it depends on the conditions, whether they have funding, whether they have good legislation to lean on. My goal was to change this in the Ministry of Regional Development and also to set up those forms in the law, which should enable support for the construction and acquisition of housing as well as other possibilities with which this housing construction can take place, whether it be a form of housing construction or housing cooperatives, as well as the use of social cooperatives, which would be devoted to housing specific target groups such as singles or singles. And this type is already normally legally taken into the law, so this can happen. The baugruppe model, where the cooperative is formed, can also serve for part of single mothers, which, through management, builds the future housing. However, I think the most natural will be the Housing Support Act, which summarizes all these possibilities, including the possibility of guaranteed housing. This could help single mothers live in normal and quality rental housing with greater certainty. I'll introduce the model in half a minute. It is not true that all empty apartments in the Czech Republic that are, these people have as investment apartments. If, for example, you inherited an apartment or an apartment from your parents, or you got married and you originally have a mortgage on an apartment, there are various administrative and economic risks to rent the apartment together. We saw it in a covide where a lot of people at the time didn't have the money to pay rent, which passed on to the person who just had the apartment and the other apartment, the cost of a mortgage. So we also open a variant where one can decide to put one's apartment into the city's housing fund. This can be dealt with at the moment, for example by providing it to single mothers, who here in Prague Adam Zábranský is trying to get out of asylum houses. I think it succeeds, placing them or giving them the opportunity to live in renovated apartments. And this is the kind of apartments and municipal housing fund that could grow without the municipality actually building the apartment, only that person would provide the apartment, and the municipality would become some kind of landlord, where, of course, it would pay for its rent and costs. We want to present the bill to the government in October next year, we're working on it with the MPSV. We know where there's been a lot of mistakes in the last law. We are trying to follow a path that will work and we will also represent the lay public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u162	Thank you and there is an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u163	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I'm gonna be totally rooting for you here, because I think we all feel that there's available housing for young families and for parents who have stayed alone to raise the baby, so of course that's okay. We should also have enough starting apartments for young families to take refuge in rather than in any way... because, even in view of the crisis that is now taking place, housing availability is actually narrowing down considerably for our citizens, even because interest rates are rising rather steeply, and at a time when the interest rate on the mortgage is about 5%, it becomes completely unavailable in this situation. So that's where my question was that we basically now somehow cost these potential tenants the opportunity to apply for it somewhere, the housing. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-008-112.u164	Does the Minister still want to take advantage of the possibility of a reaction? There was no more direct question, just making sure. Thus, we have exhausted today's possibility of interpelling, because the last interpellation can be delivered at the latest at 17.55. I therefore thank everyone and end not only today's interpelation, but also today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll meet again tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. here. You all have a quiet evening. Goodbye.
