ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u1	15. Government bill on the entry and import of certain cultural goods into the customs territory of the European Union and on the amendment of certain related laws /German press 150/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa, and I ask you, Minister, to take the floor. You are fully prepared and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u2	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Members of the Government, allow me briefly to justify the bill on the entry and import of certain cultural goods into the customs territory of the European Union. The reason for submitting this bill is the obligation to adapt our legal order to a new EU regulation, namely the regulation on the entry and import of cultural goods. This is Regulation No 880 of 17 April 2019, which aims to protect the integrity of cultural heritage in the countries of its origin. Illegal trafficking in cultural goods and related plundering of archaeological sites is a serious problem aggravated by the fact that in some politically less stable countries of the Middle East, considerable funding is obtained to finance terrorism. As long as it is possible to pursue illicit but lucrative trade in cultural goods without significant risks to its originators, illegal excavation and illegal plundering will continue, and therefore the regulation on the entry and import of cultural goods introduces a comprehensive system of rules governing the importation of such goods into the territory of the European Union. The proposed bill is the first part of the adaptation to that regulation, with the implementation deadline set by 28 December 2020. So, colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that we are already in considerable delay in this case. The second part of the adaptation will follow by June 2025 at the latest in connection with the emergence of a centralised electronic system which will serve the EU Member States to exchange information on imports of cultural goods from third countries. The draft law defines the Ministry of Culture and Customs as the competent authorities of the Czech Republic and regulates their procedure in the event that the relevant cultural property is imported in the EU in violation of the legislation of the country of origin and will be captured by the Czech customs office. The proposed law further regulates the rules from the safe preservation of such cultural property and its examination by the professional organisation of the Ministry of Culture, the National Museum, the National Library or the National Monument Institute, to the decision of the Ministry of Culture on the seizure of the cultural property and its subsequent return to the country of origin. The penalties for infringement are also laid down, i.e. illegal imports of cultural goods. By approving the bill presented, the Czech Republic will not only fulfil its obligations under EU law, but - and I would like to stress this - it will engage in the fight against illegal trade in cultural goods, in efforts to preserve the world's cultural heritage, as well as in preventing the financing of terrorism. For the above reasons, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies release this proposal for second reading, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for his support, because I think it is a very useful thing for some of you, I can add that it is very God-loving. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to a possible debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Lubomír Brož. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u4	Thank you. Dear Government, colleagues, thank you to Minister Bax for the introductory words to this Government Bill on the entry and import of certain cultural goods into the customs territory of the European Union. I would like to begin by saying that this is because of the adaptation of domestic law to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the entry and import of cultural goods, and I think it has also been said that the implementation period for the part of the regulation to which this law applies has already expired on 28 December 2020. The need for adoption of the proposed legal standard results from the commitments of the Czech Republic given by its membership in the European Union and from an intense interest in protecting the world's cultural heritage from illegal export and criminal activity. The proposal for a new law is therefore primarily put forward for the purpose of adapting national legislation to the regulation and, in the absence of implementation, the adaptation of the domestic legal framework could not be implemented. At the same time, it is also necessary to link legislation, both European and national, to the legislation of this Regulation in the field of customs. Czech legislation would not be fully compatible with European legislation, which would create significant difficulties for the customs authorities of the Czech Republic in the exercise of their duties in the field of customs. At the same time, there would be a reduction in the degree of legal certainty of the entities concerned, as national legislation would not follow European legislation. The proposal thus provides for competent authorities to comply with the procedures in accordance with the Regulation. As far as the issue of the protection of movable cultural heritage is concerned, the optics of the so-called source country have so far been assessed in the Czech Republic, thus accentuating the protection of the national and, possibly, of the European Union's cultural heritage. Recently, however, it has become increasingly apparent that this protectionist approach is no longer adequate for the preservation of the integrity of the world's cultural heritage, which we are particularly concerned about, especially in countries whose capacity to protect their own cultural heritage is very limited for a number of different reasons - such as the unsatisfactory economic situation, social, war conflict and so on. This is therefore intended to straighten the regulation, for which the submitted press number 150, the Government's bill, is an adaptation regulation. It is also important to say that the bill tabled is only a partial implementation of the regulation and relates only to the cultural goods listed in Annex A to this Regulation. This means that the cultural goods covered by the Regulation are divided into parts A, B, C and Annex A, for example, contains rare collections, samples of zoological, botanical, mineralogical, anatomical or paleontological nature, or archaeological excavations, antiques over 100 years of age. The abovementioned Regulation defines the concept of cultural goods in a different way from that of domestic and European legislation so far, because of efforts to differentiate protected objects which form part of the cultural heritage of countries outside the customs territory of the European Union. The purpose of this Regulation, namely the proposed implementing act, is to prevent trade in cultural goods from third countries obtained from plundering and their use for the financing of terrorism or other unfair practices - this is also very important here to draw attention to. The draft law, in accordance with the Regulation and in order to fulfil its purpose, uses mostly customs procedures. Pursuant to the Regulation, the entry into the customs territory of the European Union of cultural goods which have left the territory of the country in which they were discovered in breach of the legislation of the particular country is prohibited. Member States are obliged to take measures to be applied if this prohibition is infringed, therefore the draft law provides for the procedure of competent authorities of the Czech Republic, i.e. customs offices and the Ministry of Culture to be applied if this situation occurs, from the detention of the potential cultural goods by the customs office to the safe preservation of the subject by the relevant professional organisation - according to the type of subject, it may be the National Museum, the National Library and the like - and the decision of the Ministry of Culture on the seizure of the cultural goods until the return of the cultural goods to the country of its origin. Finally, I would say that the proposed legislation is fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, as defined by Art. 112 Constitutions of the Czech Republic. The draft law also respects the general principles of constitutional law and does not violate the principle of equality in rights or the principle of the prohibition of retroactivity. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports was designed as a guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate, in which I am registering one application, and I will ask that Mrs Pokorná Jermanová speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u6	Merry noon, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The bill that we have before us at the moment was first approved by the government two years ago. This is a proposal for an adaptation regulation that accurately copies the framework of European law. [[12.10 hours]] The draft Act on the entry and import of certain cultural goods into the customs territory of the European Union and the proposal for amendments to certain related laws are based on values that we naturally promote in the Czech Republic. In principle, historical and artistic objects should remain in countries whose cultural heritage is inherently owned. So it is not only about saving and returning items that have illegally left our country, but also about returning those that belong to the heritage of any other country in the world. Cultural heritage is of great importance in Europe for preserving national and continental identity and is traditionally protected as a legacy to future generations. Member States have traditionally worked very closely together to preserve it. Several regulations and directives were issued within the European Union to protect cultural goods considered as national cultural treasures of the Member States. In the Czech Republic the protection of cultural goods, including their import, export, sale or return, is also relatively well-adjusted and has a long-term high level. However, this issue has so far been assessed primarily by the optics of the protection of national or European cultural heritage. Recently, however, it has become increasingly apparent that the preservation of cultural heritage, especially in those countries where protection is limited, for example because of a conflict of war, political or economic situation, must also be taken into account. Illegal trafficking in cultural goods is often linked to organised crime, terrorist financing, money laundering and tax evasion. You have before you a proposal for enforceable legislation that could return illegally exported cultural goods from countries - so-called third countries, i.e. countries outside the European Union. The proposed law regulates certain issues of the entry and import of cultural goods into the customs territory of the European Union, and, as I have already said, is an adaptation regulation in relation to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU and uses mostly customs procedures relating to the detention of objects, the treatment of them and the procedure for returning them. I believe that the bill is acceptable to all of us regardless of political affiliation. This is a very necessary regulation, which is still missing in our order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u7	Thank you, too, Madame. Good noon to you, we'll continue. We are in a general debate. Another registered, this time with priority rights, is the Minister of Culture. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would now like to speak in the general debate with a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussing the bill in the guarantee committee, or in other committees for 30 days, in the context, as I have already mentioned, that implementation should have been implemented a long time ago. I have been waiting for a speech on this proposal not only because it is presented in the general debate, but also to hear how my honourable colleagues stand up to this proposal, and when I have heard the friendly position of both Mrs Pokorná Jermanová and the rapporteur, I will allow myself to put this proposal forward, because I believe that we generally share the need for this bill to be adopted, and I have also come to the impression that it will not raise any larger debates. So I'm going to ask you to record my proposal to shorten this deadline to 30 days and thank both previous speakers for their performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-004-015.u9	Yes, thank you. I have noted the proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days, and we will vote on it at the end of the discussion of this press. And I'm gonna ask if there's anyone else who's joining the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Do I ask any final words from the appellant or rapporteur? There's no interest in final words. I have not noted the proposal to return or reject the standard, so we will now proceed to vote on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'll make sure my colleagues arrive in time. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. I want to ask, does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In the 46 vote, 152 Members were enrolled, 107 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I want to ask, does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? It's not like that. We should therefore now proceed to the vote on the shortening of the deadline. In the general debate, a proposal was made by Minister Baxa to shorten the deadline for discussion to 30 days. We will therefore vote on shortening the time limits. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the proposal made by the Minister here? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 47, 152 Members were voted in favour, 59 voted in favour, 39 opposed. The motion was rejected and we did not therefore vote to shorten the time limits to 30 days. I do not see the request for a vote check, and I therefore state that this concludes the discussion of this press, paragraph 15, and we will continue with the next programme. Before I do, I'm gonna make one apology. Between 12th and 45th to one, Vice-President Věra Kovářová apologizes for reasons of work. Now we should continue with the point
