ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-011-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 276/2003 Coll., on Antarctica and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 67/ - First reading On behalf of the Government, Anna Hubáčková, the Environment Minister, will state the proposal. I beg you, Madam Secretary, take the floor. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Colleagues and colleagues, especially in the left side of the hall, I ask for silence. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-011-008.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the Government is presenting to Parliament of the Czech Republic a proposal for an amendment to the Antarctic Act. The draft law is tabled again for discussion, as the process of approving the proposal failed to be completed before the expiry of the 8th parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, and it was not discussed at first reading. The Government has re-approved the draft law on 22 November 2021 by resolution 1040. The main objective of the proposed legislation is to bring national legislation into line with the amendment of Annex II and Annex VI to the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, which is also known as the Madrid Protocol. Following the 15-year practice of the application of the Antarctic Act, the proposed legislation aims to regulate the authorisation system, processes and conditions for entry and activities carried out in Antarctica. Annex VI to the Protocol, which regulates the responsibility for environmental accidents, was adopted in 2005. Although Annex VI has not yet entered into force, it is considered that it is desirable to make this amendment when the law is amended. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, The measure will enter into force after the approval of all the Contracting Parties, which, at the time of adoption of the measure at the Advisory Assembly, had a so-called consultative status. The measure has already been approved by the vast majority of these states. In 2009, an amendment to Annex II on the protection of fauna and flora of Antarctica was adopted. The proposed changes to the law associated with the implementation of this annex are rather minor. There is currently a double notification and authorisation regime. The proposed legislation will create a uniform authorisation, as is the case in other Contracting States with consultative status, such as Sweden or the Netherlands. This will clarify the authorisation regime, which will allow better orientation for people heading to Antarctica and will also contribute to easier supervision of compliance with the law. At the same time, all planned activities in Antarctica will be subject to the EIA detection process and the overall dispatch report will ensure improved control of activities and improved quality of environmental protection in Antarctica. The amendment responds to the need for the implementation of Annexes VI and II to the Protocol and simplifies the administrative process of issuing permits to enter and carry out activities in Antarctica by adjusting, in accordance with Annex VI, the responsibility for environmental accidents arising from scientific and research programmes, tourism and all other governmental and non-governmental activities in the Antarctic Treaty. The operator shall have an obligation to take corrective measures in the event of an environmental accident. This is a natural or legal person who organises the activities to be carried out in the Antarctic Treaty area. In the event that an operator does not take immediate and effective corrective action, Annex VI calls on the Contracting Party of the operator and the other Contracting Parties to take that step for it. A Contracting Party which takes corrective action on behalf of an operator may bring an action against that operator. In order to cover liability, each Contracting Party shall require, in accordance with the Annex, its operators to maintain adequate insurance or other financial collateral, such as a bank guarantee. The new text of Section 8 relates to the modification of the modification of the authorisation when it is proposed to establish the single authorisation scheme as adapted in other Contracting States. Specific requirements are indicated for the authorisation of certain types of activities, such as interference with populations or habitats of geographically native plants and animals in Antarctica, the collection of specially protected Antarctic species and the import of geographically non-originating plants, animals and micro-organisms. The Ministry of Environment will now discuss the issue of all permits with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention and for your approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-011-008.u3	I also thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Ondřej Babka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-011-008.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my task as rapporteur for this House press is, of course, to briefly inform you of the reasons why this proposed legal standard needs to be paid attention. The aim of this law is to make a change in accordance with Annex II on the protection of fauna and flora of Antarctica, Annex VI on liability for industrial accidents - which is also crucial from my point of view - and other legal acts adopted pursuant to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 The Antarctic Treaty and implement it into the legal order of the Czech Republic. It should be noted that the current legislation adopted on this issue has been amended since the date of application of this Act in 2005. The proposed legislation concerns, in particular, the following three areas: firstly, responsibility for environmental accidents. In the context of ever-increasing tourism in Antarctica, there is increasing pressure on its environment. After long negotiations, the Parties to the Antarctic Treaty concluded that protection of the environment of Antarctica needs to be strengthened. In order for the Czech Republic to honour its political commitment, which it made at the 26th Advisory Assembly in 2013 in order to obtain a so-called consultative status, to which I will return, the content of which is intended to approve recommendations and measures to be approved by the Contracting Parties with consultative status, it is necessary that it amends its national law in order to subsequently consult with the Protocol Annex VI and subsequently agree to be bound by this Annex. Annex VI on liability for industrial accidents regulates environmental accidents relating to scientific and research programmes, tourism and all other government and non-governmental activities in the Antarctic Treaty area. It also mentions the necessary definitions of basic terms. In accordance with the principle of prevention, it places emphasis on preventive measures taken by operators of activities in Antarctica, which are required by the Contracting Parties. It also imposes an obligation on operators to establish an contingency plan. It amends the corrective measures to be taken by the operator in causing environmental damage as a result of its activities in Antarctica. It introduces the operator's responsibility for the environmental accident and regulates any exceptions and limitations to such liability. The operator shall have an obligation to take corrective measures in the event of an environmental accident. This is a natural or legal person who organises the activities to be carried out in the Antarctic Treaty area. For example, Article 6 of Annex VI also defines three cases where the operator does not take corrective action against the environmental accident arising from its activities. First, corrective action is taken by one of the Contracting Parties, so the operator is obliged to pay the costs of the corrective action taken to that Contracting Party, or no party has taken any corrective action, then the operator is obliged to pay the financial amount that reflects as much as possible the cost of the remedial action, or it is a specific example where the State operator does not take corrective action against the environmental accident arising from its activities and neither the Contracting Party has taken corrective action. The emergence of an environmental accident is most likely mainly in the case of logistics. [[18.30 hours]] As far as the annual Czech scientific expeditions are concerned, their logistics has always depended on the logistics of other countries, such as Argentina or Chile. It follows that it is highly unlikely that the Czech Republic should have to take corrective action on behalf of the Czech operator who would not have taken it. Moreover, even if this situation had ever occurred in the future, the Czech Republic would have had to regress against the operator, so that the operator would have been obliged to cover its costs. Second, this law deals with the protection of fauna and flora of Antarctica. In the light of new knowledge in the protection of Antarctic fauna and flora, an amendment to Annex II on the protection of fauna and flora of Antarctica was adopted at international level in 2009. The amendments to this Annex are rather minor in nature, which will not have a more significant impact. This is an extension of protection explicitly to invertebrates, a more detailed modification of the introduction of non-originating species and diseases or a refinement of the issuing of permits for sampling for zoos. Certain amendments to the Annex are also being deleted and the special protection of all types of sea lions of the Arctocephalus spp. should be deleted, in connection with which national arrangements should be amended, which should not be more stringent than international arrangements in this area. Of course, we assume that the list of specially protected species will be adapted in the implementing decree, so that it is not necessary to amend the Antarctic Act again only for this reason. Annex II therefore relates in particular to the extension of protection explicitly to the invertebrates. Third, this law deals with the regulation of tourism, where the Madrid Protocol states that Antarctica is a nature reserve dedicated to peace and science. Other activities in Antarctica need to be regulated, as all parties are interested in protecting this fragile ecosystem. In recent years, tourism has increased extremely in Antarctica and it is noted that the number of tourists was 36 700 in the season 2014 and 2015, while in the season 2018 and 2019 up to 55 000. This tourism activity, of course, has an impact on the ecosystem there, and for this reason it is necessary to address this issue and adopt stricter regulation, which should aim to protect the environment in the middle of Antarctica in general. This legislation does not regulate relations affecting the prohibition of discrimination within the meaning of the anti-discrimination law. The legislation contained in the draft amendment does not have any impact on non-discrimination, is neutral in terms of equality, does not have immediate or secondary effects and does not result in discrimination against either of the sexes. As the Minister has already said, the Ministry of the Environment will negotiate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This adjustment does not affect the revenue side of the state budget, nor does it create any impact on the business environment or any social impact. And why we should adopt this amendment is mainly because it is necessary to implement it into the national legal order of the Czech Republic, including the already mentioned Annex II and Annex VI and other legal acts adopted under the Antarctic Treaty. As I have already mentioned, the Czech Republic is, moreover, one of the Contracting States which have so-called consultative status, and these states are currently only 29. These include, for example, the US, Russia, China, India, Brazil, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and therefore the Czech Republic. These states have the right to vote and can therefore fundamentally influence all Antarctic matters. For this reason, the adoption of the proposed regulation, including the ratification and amendment of Annexes II and VI, is crucial to us as the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-011-008.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That was the opening word for the rapporteur. We took turns managing the meeting, so I wish you all a nice evening. Before we go any further, I would like to apologise to Mr Kohajda for today's negotiations between 16 and 18 o'clock for work reasons. And I would also like to announce that I am personally voting today with a replacement card number 33. Let's keep going. I am opening a general debate. I have Mr. Fiala's prior rights. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-011-008.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with such a request. I'd like to ask you for about 30 minutes of recess at the SPD club meeting, because we have another program starting at 7:00, and we need some advice on that. So, if possible, Mr President, I request 30 minutes of breaks for the SPD club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-011-008.u7	I understand. There's an agreement that we're going to end at 7:00 tonight, so your break means we're going to end today's meeting day and meet tomorrow at 9:00. So it was fast. Thank you for - not for the break, but for your participation and have a nice rest of the evening.
