ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care and Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended /German Press 151/ - Third Reading I ask that the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Lukáš Vlček, take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff. The amendments are set out in the Parliamentary Press 151/3, which was delivered on 17 June 2022, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 151/4. I am just saying, in this case, there will be a change in the rapporteur at third reading. Mr Tomáš Dubský will be the rapporteur for the third reading. Here too, I ask the Minister if he wants to speak before the debate is opened? [[Yes.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to reiterate the Government's amendment to Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care. The aim of the proposed bill is, in particular, the introduction of an obligation to identify plant protection products for professional users with unique identifiers in the form of so-called two-dimensional barcodes and to send data on the movements of these products to the repository of data administered by the Ministry of Agriculture in order to prevent the counterfeiting of these products. Furthermore - to electronize records of the use of preparations and ancillary devices following the model of the prepared register of use of fertilisers. Furthermore - improving the availability of plant protection products by simplifying the process of mutual recognition of authorisations for the use of products for own use. Furthermore, in response to the catastrophic overgrowth of the field vole, the process and professional procedures of the central control and testing institute of the farm in the catastrophic state of harmful organisms should be adapted. In this context, the definitions and procedures for determining the population density of harmful organisms shall be revised in particular. Further - to facilitate the application of plant protection products in the form of capsules or granules by drones, unless the height of five metres above the ground is exceeded, and to make partial changes in the field of treatment with products with a view to simplifying and clarifying legislation, for example in the field of competence for the handling of preparations. The draft law was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies at its 8th meeting on 5 May this year, and it recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the Government's draft law. In the second reading of the Government Bill, which took place on 17 June of this year, an amendment was tabled to Mr Kott and others, which simplifies the legislation on mutual recognition of permits or mutual recognition of extended permits for minor uses. The Ministry of Agriculture takes a neutral position on this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u3	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I greet you all, I am taking the lead in the meeting. I am now opening the debate to which Mr Josef Kott is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And before I give him my word, Mr Kučera is reporting for the previous vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u4	Hello, thank you for your word. To the previous vote number 54, 53 and 52. I'm late for high school, but I voted in favour of everything. I'm not questioning the vote, I'm just stating for the tapestry. 54, 53 and 52. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u5	Thank you. And now Mr Kott has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, Minister, dear colleagues, as the Minister has already presented in brief my amendment, so I would like to allow the rest of you to do so briefly, because we want to discuss this law, to present an amendment that we, together with our colleague Fridrich, Pražák and Bělica, have read into the system. I've already talked about this here at second reading. Given that the Czech Republic is not an important market for plant protection special substances and it has become possible that, in the context of cuts of active substances within the European Union, the Czech Republic and its farmers and producers have been in very important troubles because there were no adequate chemical plant protection products and have not been able to effectively defend themselves to a harmful factor, we have therefore prepared an amendment which will allow the use of those protective substances authorised in another Member State of the European Union within the framework of the already recognised plant protection products and specified in the zone in which the Czech Republic is located. Our support was also obtained by the amendment at the Czech Moravian Breeding and Seed Association, at the Fruit Union of the Czech Republic, at the Zelinářské union of the Czech Republic, at the Wine Union. All these institutions welcomed the opportunity to address production by recognising each other's active substances, as I mentioned. In short, I would like to read the reasoning so that it is clear what is going on here: "As the current situation does not allow for the implementation of the general principles of integrated plant protection established in accordance with Directive 2009/128/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 or for the effective prevention of the spread of harmful organisms for a number of crops; Whereas the spectrum of authorised products varies significantly in individual ČS; Whereas the authorisation process is overwhelmed at Member State level by excessive administration and unnecessary costs both on the part of the State and on the part of private entities, which is in direct conflict with the objectives defined in the preambles of Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Since the authorisation or non-approval of the use of the products in each Member State depends on the holder of an authorisation which decides on these steps on an economic basis; whereas growers in individual Member States in the European Union do not have a level playing field and the current situation thus significantly distorts competition in the single market of the European Union; whereas a large number of commodities of treated products not authorised in the Czech Republic are imported into the Czech Republic from the same zone of the European Union, it is necessary to set up a legislative process for mutual recognition of authorisations in order to remove the abovementioned barriers. This implies that, where the product is authorised in the same zone, the risk assessment is already carried out in the Member State where the product is authorised in accordance with the directly applicable legislation of the European Union. It is therefore irrelevant to require further impact assessment in the Czech Republic. At the same time, commodities treated with these products in another Member State of the European Union, irrespective of the authorisation in the Czech Republic, are traded and consumed on the territory of the Czech Republic." I believe that this is a sufficient assessment of why we have tabled our amendment. I am glad that we have been able to agree with other members of the agricultural committee that this procedure is correct, that we will support the production of Czech quality food, which we control, that we will reduce bureaucracy in the framework of the authorisation process of individual active substances within the Czech Republic and that we will be able to set up the same competitive environment for both Czech and foreign producers in the future. Thank you for the attitude of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I believe I have convinced you that this amendment will find justification, and I will be glad if you will also support it in the subsequent vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I ask the appellant whether he is interested in the final word or the rapporteur? It's not like that. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur for the guarantee production to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u8	Thank you. Good afternoon. Madam President, my dear colleagues, I therefore propose that we first vote on Mr Josef Kott's amendments number 1 and 2 by one vote and then vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u9	Yes, thank you. We will therefore now vote on Mr Kott's amendments. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. I therefore ask for an opinion on the amendment. Mr. Rapporteur? [[Agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 57, registered by 138 Members and Members, for 127, against none. The motion was accepted. All proposals have been voted on, Mr rapporteur, is that correct? [[Yes.]] We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care and amending certain related laws, as amended, pursuant to House Press 151, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 58, registered 138 Members and Members, for 128, against none. The motion was accepted. I am stating that we have agreed to the bill, and I am ending the discussion of this point. Ladies and gentlemen... Yes, this is President Výborný. To the vote? No? No. Please, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, fellow Members, on the one hand, we have three minutes to a fixed point in the election, i.e. the election of the President of the National Budget Board. I think it would be unnecessary for us to open the third reading for three minutes now, which there was another one in order. And I will use that time after consulting the legislation, so let me just remind you that, on the one hand, at 14.15, we have included the negotiation of the penalty law, as we voted this morning, and on the basis of the agreement of the members of the MPs, and this is more information for you, Madam Vice-President, that this meeting would be suspended until Wednesday, 20 July by 9 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-006-011.u11	Thank you, too. I'm declaring it on a proposal, if it isn't... I am declaring a two-minute break until 13.45, when we are facing the election of the President of the National Budget Board. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 13.44 to 13.45 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the negotiations. We now have item number on the agenda.
