ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Printing 73/ - Second Reading This item has been interrupted in the general debate. Before I open the general debate, I ask the Minister, the rapporteur, if you want to speak before I open the general debate. It's not like that. In the previous general debate, we interrupted this point when Pavel Bělobrádek finished his speech, and as another duly signed up for the general debate, Mrs Martina Lisová is here to prepare Mr Tom Philipp. Madam, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u2	Thank you. Mr President, I will not be such a professional as colleague Bělobrádek, who has been able to table three amendments in three minutes, but honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please allow me to briefly present in the general debate the amendment which I, together with my colleagues Tom Philipp, Jan Kuchař, Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš, Vít Kaňkovskýý and Róbert Teleky, make to the House of Press No 73. The main reason for this amendment was the pandemic of covid-19 disease, which clearly pointed to the weakness of the current system in the provision of medicinal products important for the protection of public health. The weakness is, above all, that the current system does not allow for a rapid response to sudden situations. In particular, the newly used institute of joint purchases through the European Union and, at the same time, the non-standard way of concluding contracts between the Czech Republic and manufacturers of medicinal products highlighted the absence of legislative institutes for flexible and rapid solutions to similar situations. The proposed change therefore aims at situations in which the Czech Republic must provide medicinal products for patients on its territory in major epidemiological threats. The proposed amendment is therefore intended to enable the Ministry of Health in exceptional cases - and I would stress this - to ensure the purchase and distribution of medicinal products, with the prior consent of the Government as the supreme public authority. Similarly, the proposal approaches the possibility of flexibly fixing the prices and reimbursements of these medicinal products important for the protection of public health, since, even in this case, no adequate possibility is available. The current system cannot flexibly determine the prices and reimbursements of medicinal products relevant for the protection of public health in the provision of outpatient care, ensure the purchase and distribution of such products which, under standard circumstances and the need to comply with all other conditions of the law, could not be used in outpatient care and issued in individual pharmacies on the basis of an electronic recipe. At the same time, the proposal responds in terms of price regulation and reimbursement, as well as to situations where medicinal products covered by public health insurance are not available. The proposed amendment will, in exceptional cases, allow the purchase, import and distribution of medicinal products which, if necessary, could not be ensured for the needs of patients in the Czech Republic. This adjustment is also essential in order to allow the rapid entry of medicinal products needed in the event of serious epidemiological threats to the pricing and reimbursement system in the provision of outpatient care. The proposal for each such step envisages an insurance policy, namely the prior approval of the Government as the supreme executive authority. The Government's consent will always logically be granted on the basis of a public health risk analysis carried out by the Ministry of Health, which will reflect available knowledge provided by relevant bodies such as the State Institute for Drug Control, the State Institute of Health, the Institute of Health Information and Statistics or other professional companies. The purchase and distribution of medicinal products relevant for the provision of health services will thus be possible only for those medicinal products for which the Government of the Czech Republic has given its agreement in advance, thereby expressing their relevance and need. This competence is proposed in particular in the light of the experience of the pandemic of covid-19, when the Ministry of Health - I note that, in the absence of a state of emergency - does not have the possibility to ensure the purchase and distribution of medicinal products relevant to the protection of public health or medicinal products that are purchased within the European Union by so-called joint purchases, in the case of medicines that are available only limited quantities worldwide. Moreover, significant changes are taking place at European Union level. HERA will play a key role for futuro in similar joint purchases that I have quoted. The Czech Republic must therefore have an adequate instrument to respond to this situation. An important public interest will have to be demonstrated in order to issue an emergency measure, an integral part of which is the interest in maintaining the financial stability of the health insurance system as well as ensuring the availability of paid services to patients. Thus, it is not possible to deliberately influence the price and reimbursement of medicines through this institute. The purpose is to ensure that only those medicinal products for which this is strictly necessary are covered by an exceptional mechanism and that there is no unjustified draining of funds from the health insurance system or circumvention of the standard system. The measure will therefore always apply only for the necessary period from the point of view of public health protection. Without the adoption of this amendment, there will be no In the autumn of this year, the Czech Republic is able to distribute oral antiviral medicines intended for patients with covid-19 to be available in normal outpatient care, which means that it can be prescribed by a physician and available in the nearest pharmacy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u3	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Tom Philipp will now appear, Mr Kamal Farhan will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the amendment that was placed under number 904. It is the amendment of Members and Members Philipp, Lisová, Kuchař, Němečková Crkvenjaš, Kaňkovský, Teleky, and that is all. There are currently two places for doctors to record electronically performed vaccinations. In case of vaccination against covid-19, it is a vaccination register connected to the so-called ISIN, administered by the Institute for Health Information and Statistics, which is under the Ministry of Health, and for other vaccinations the register was launched this year during the eRecipe system, administered by the State Institute for Drug Control. This double-trackness is not systemic and it is not correct, the doctors complain very much about it. When I say doctors, I mean the professional society of practitioners for children and adolescents, practitioners and, for example, a vaccine society. They complain, above all, that the system in which they must enter all vaccinations is complex, is quite extensive and doubles the information, while the ISIN still used, where the data on covid-19 vaccinations are based, is considered to be helpful and simple for them. Due to the technical possibilities and after discussion with the Ministry of Health and the representatives of vaccinated doctors, we therefore propose that doctors carry out the record once, into the system of ISIN, which they are used to and are satisfied with this system. The Ministry of Health will automatically transfer the vaccination record to the eRecipe system to maintain functionality as it was set up at the beginning of the year. This is to correct a certain non-systemicity that has been introduced in the previous parliamentary term. Users will only enter data once and it will be easy for them. By adopting this amendment, we will not limit anyone to obtaining information, to anyone who needs it, and, on the contrary, to making life easier for doctors. Thank you. [[11.30 hours]] And now I would like to take the second amendment, which was founded under the number 840 Members Philipp, Svoboda, Mrs Lisová, Kuchař, Kaňkovský, Teleky, Mrs Adámková and Mrs Bělohlávková. The current Act on Medicines contains the legal regulation of ethics commissions, whose task is to assess clinical trials of drugs and changes to documentation of already approved clinical trials. The ethics commission is currently working as a so-called multicentre ethical commission with the role of the ethics commission established under the SÚKL - the State Institute for Drug Control, which would then assess all applications that are in the Czech Republic within two years. However, the transition plan to one ethical commission set up by the State Institute for Drug Control proved unrealistic, since, in addition to the lack of experts willing to work on this ethical committee, it turned out that the Commission itself cannot - nor can - handle - deal with the volume of applications. For your idea, these applications are about 400, some 380 a year, and the other additional documents that are submitted for these already approved applications are around 4,000. At present, 14 multicentric ethics committees have managed this work, so of which one or two commissions under the SÚKL, or fourteen in the field, it is quite clear that it has already been a bit doomed, this attempt. The proposed amendment aims to adapt the system of ethical commissions in order to ensure a sufficient number of them, to be operationally allocated and handled, and the Czech Republic has been a predictable and transparent partner for clinical trialrs. The system, as we are proposing, has actually been tested over the last two years, when the amendment has already worked or been adopted, and has been tested in the so-called VHP Plus program. The VHP Plus program was running until the end of 2021 and the cooperation worked. It worked so that the State Institute for Drug Control actually passed documents to individual ethics committees, which processed them and returned them electronically to the State Institute for Drug Control and then distributed them to applicants. The adoption of the amendment will ensure an effective transition to a new assessment system under the European Clinical Assessment Regulation without the need to spend significant financial and personnel resources to ensure the functionality of ethical review of clinical trials applications in the Czech Republic. This amendment arose after discussion and with a great contribution, of course, from the Ministry of Health and the SÚKL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u5	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kamal Farhan will now appear and prepare Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u6	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to briefly comment on the amendment tabled by my colleague here, through Mr President, Tom Philipp, on vaccination or, in fact, on changes in writing regarding vaccination. I clearly want to say that, from my point of view, this amendment is not part of this law. Of course, at the end of the day, I will ask the Minister of Agriculture to explain to me how this amendment is related to the law he is proposing. I noticed things like veterinary medicine, feed, and I wonder what the relationship is. I don't see him there. I think that this amendment is a typical label, and I would just like to briefly put it in the context of what the Constitutional Court has put on such stickers. In his finding, the Constitutional Court described 77/06 as such stickers as unconstitutional. The amendment under discussion aims exclusively at veterinary medicinal products and aims to adapt them to EU Regulation 2019/6 on veterinary medicinal products and EU Regulation 2019/4 on the production, placing on the market and use of medicated feedingstuffs. The amendment regulates only veterinary medicinal products, which also corresponds to the process of its preparation and consultation. The amendment was discussed in the Agriculture Committee. I'm asking here, why weren't such important things brought here discussed in the Health Committee? Why is the Health Committee surrounded? Here I have taken the liberty of copying that, according to the decision-making practice of the Constitutional Court, the amendment must have a close relationship with the main subject matter of the amendment, which means it must relate to the same subject matter as the draft law, it must be closely related to the purpose of the specific provision of the bill or part thereof. The amendment concerns a completely different part of the Act on Medicines. It concerns the eRecipe and the Public Health Act. Neither of the conditions defined in the decision-making practice of the Constitutional Court is therefore met in the present case, and if the amendment were adopted, I believe that it will not be accepted, from my point of view and in what I read in the Constitutional Court's judgment, this amendment is unconstitutional. In view of the fundamental principles of the rule of law and the constraints on the activities of public authorities, it is necessary for this proposal to be submitted and discussed in a proper legislative process and not by an adhesive to veterinary medicinal products, so that perhaps the Minister of Agriculture can also comment on this on the Committee on Agriculture. I would also like to know how the Office for Personal Data Protection feels about this, and I would like to say here that this is actually about the UHIS and other organizations. And I just want to say here that the IHIS is limited to anonymous data, which means that sensitive personal data of patients are protected. The data to which the UHIS now has access does not contain information by which it would be possible to germinate. Newly according to this proposal, the IHIS is to have access to the complete information contained in the eRecipe system. For those of you who don't yet know what I'm saying, it's actually at this point that a circle of officials is expanding, especially at the UHIS, of course it can also be regional sanitation stations and others who have access to eRecipes, which means they have access to 10 million citizens, 10 million patients, and they will see who is taking drugs. In other words, when one of your families takes antidepressants, takes sleeping medications, takes any medication, whatever it may be about your children, whoever it is about, the number of people who will have access to these sensitive data is immensely widespread from my point of view. I do not understand at all how paragraph 2 of Paragraph 81 (1) of the EC Treaty applies. Three letters could have been inserted there. Was it ignorance? Or what's his goal? I just don't understand it at all. I think this is totally over the line. I'd really like to know what the Office of Personal Data Protection says. [[11.40 hours]] I want to ask you here, and I can only see Mrs Adámková and my colleague Janulík through there. [[Mined on the board.]] I don't know, I don't know what they're gonna say, but I'm asking you, where are the fighters registered, the MPs who fought for personal data protection here years ago when eRecipe was being implemented, who fought for GDPR here? I don't see them here at all, but I believe they might be able to make some factual remarks. They don't mind today? I remember that in those discussions some even mentioned that the courts would not have access to this, so that the police would not have access to it. This is the way this discussion has been going on here. And we, with this paragraph, this two-thirds, put into a law that doesn't, at all, concern this at all, from my point of view an outrage and de facto allow access to other people and others to watch. Personally, if anyone looks at me, I don't care more or less, but there are a lot of people who take different medications who don't want to tell me what they're taking for drugs, and why should other people step in? I'm really curious to know what the Office of Personal Data Protection will say. I think that such a change in the democratic rule of law in which we live should not take place in such a fashion through an amendment, a change that is not discussed by the Health Committee, which has not passed all the points of reference that would have to be passed in the context of the classical legislative process. I didn't even see it worked out when it came to GDPR. I think that such an amendment is not one of the feeds at all, it is not one of the animals, it is not one of the veterinary medicines, it is not part of the competence of the law put forward by the Minister of Agriculture here, and I would be happy to have the petitioners withdraw such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u7	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. First, Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr Tom Philipp, then Mr Marek Výborný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u8	Thanks again for the word. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd just like to make a very brief comment on my previous speaker's speech. Of course, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I was interested in what the contents of these amendments were, and I consulted the Minister for Health. These amendments were prepared by the Ministry of Health, the Minister assured me that they were also discussed and, of course, explained how this amendment is here in the House. If, of course, he wanted to present this planned amendment, there would probably be two identical amendments in the House, one of which would concern, at least according to the logic of the matter, the veterinary part and the other part of the humane part, we would discuss them separately. So I consider that explanation sufficient. I consider stickers at the moment when we are discussing the road law here today and there would be an amendment on pharmaceuticals, so I would assume that this is an adhesive, but if the amendment to the pharmaceuticals law is an amendment on pharmaceuticals, it seems quite reasonable to me, and especially because the Ministry of Health itself has presented it, and I fully subscribe to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u9	Thank you. Mr Tom Philipp will now speak with a point of fact, and Marek will prepare himself Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna say this about the sticker anymore, I have the same opinion as my colleague, it's just a law on medicine, it's not a label, it's an extension of what we're changing in that law. I'll explain what's going on one more time. At this point, there are two systems for doctors to enter vaccinations into. One system has worked here for two years, it's a system called in general isin, and it's related to the so-called dot, as you know. It means it's a system that doctors are used to, prefer it. This really isn't an initiative here by some fallen MEPs separated from reality, but it's a request from a professional company for practitioners, a professional company for practitioners, a children's PLDD and, for example, a vaccine society. That means it's not something that's not supported from the field. And we have a second system that is called a bit misleading in this case, otherwise it's okay, eRecipe where recipes are stored and which may be viewed by, for example, pharmacists, those who work with it. It's not true that ISN is somehow exposed to this system, it means that one system, access to the other system, isn't true. It's just a way to collect data. The data will come to Isin, ISI's will be distributed to eRecipe. That means whoever has access to the eRecipe will see both recipes and vaccinations. It's just about where it's going to be collected and how it's created there, I'd say, a welcoming environment for doctors. They've tried, they want it, so why would we stop them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. President Marek will now perform Výborný and Mr Kamal Farhan will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. By your means to Mr Farhan Kamal. On one thing, I think, colleague, you're wrong. It's not a sticker. It's a law on pharmaceuticals. Although he is presenting this amendment at the moment, because the petitioner of the Minister of Agriculture is dealing with veterinary medicines, the Minister of Agriculture, but we both know that it is a law on medicines, or the nature of the label cannot really have it. Second thing. I mean, I understand your reservations in a lot of ways, and I'm sure these things aren't discussed at the moment. We will have a very serious debate between second and third readings with the Office for Personal Data Protection. I understand your comments and reservations, and we will certainly still be looking for what the amendment might look like, and whether it should then be approved at third reading. So I want to say that this will certainly be a debate with the management of the Office for Personal Data Protection. But really the first thing that should have a character sticker, it doesn't. Let's let it go. We're at second reading, yes, we're at second reading. If we were at third reading, then here we must wage a battle to see whether or not this amendment is to be approved, but now we are reading second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u13	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Kamal Farhan. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u14	I'll try to be brief and respond to all three of my previous speakers. As far as the debate or discussion is concerned, we could not do that in any way at third reading. The last time I had a speech here, I was interrupted, through Mr President, and my speech was terminated, that at the third reading it was intended only to load legislatively technical. So that's not where we're going to have the debate. As far as the debate is concerned, of course, I welcome this because this is very important. I don't know which one of you or any of us wants to be seen by anybody - but it's not everyone, but just to expand the circle of people who are going to see what we're taking for drugs. And the law clearly states: the access of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics to electronic recipes and vaccination records is allowed for the purpose of carrying out other tasks. It's just clearly written there. And to my first speaker, the Member, by your means, that the Minister has assured him or that the Ministry of Health is presenting it - it is clear to me that it is consulted with the Ministry of Health or that the Minister has assured you. But take what the pandemic law has done to assure us of the state in which it is, and then your coalition partners within the Senate have called it an asshole after his assurance and his submission of the law. And they said it 13 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u15	Thank you. And now, therefore, duly logged in to the general debate - Mrs Věra Adámková and then Mr Miloslav Janulík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words about this law, which is certainly very important. The Committee on Agriculture has devoted itself to it very much, but it has a fundamental flaw - it takes care of human medicine there and the Committee on Health has not spoken to it at all. Those are basic reservations. I understand that everyone has read this very carefully, I have no doubt that they have asked, I have no doubt. It's just about as if we're saying now that it doesn't matter the next time you talk or make any suggestions on the amount of agricultural technology needed for some area, put it on health care. We can also ask, we can read it, it has one disadvantage, we don't understand at all. And this is where something similar happened. But let's take a closer look. In this House of Press 73, which is concerned, there are mainly some documents that are also from the European Union, in particular document 2016/429 of 9. 3. 2016 which clearly states that it deals with animal diseases and areas of healthy animals, or not human medicine. And let us go to the individual amendments. There were a total of four, one from Mrs Lisová, three from my colleague Philipp. As you know, I signed one, and I'll tell you why - because the only one has a purpose here. It is about ethical commissions, and it happens very often that, of course, we are there in cooperation with our lab experts, where other laws apply again, or so there is a point in discussing this one amendment here. If you agree to it or not, it's irrelevant, but it makes sense to discuss it here. [[11.50 hours]] And the reason is one more, because those ethical commissions, which, of course, were in a good way, were meant to be central, that would be completely dysfunctional. And here, my colleague Philipp, and therefore all those who have initiated this, is right. The reason for this is that the one commission, first of all, would not be able to cover everything, of course, and for another, a year is approved around four thousand different documents, where it is necessary to express an ethical commission, perhaps local. For those who do not know it, ethical commissions are both local in health care, i.e. for a given hospital or medical facility, and then multicentric. This means that one Ethics Committee is able to take on a larger project and therefore to cover even smaller medical facilities to make it okay. But this is not only about a medical facility, but it is about the fact that many university students, and here we also have students of the Faculty of Agriculture or Veterinary Faculty or Medicine, have different connections according to their expertise, and therefore the ethics commission there often has to judge these things, or from a veterinary or agricultural point of view, for example when they examine the environment. Maybe we were just defending some similar work, I was an opponent. So that's where the ethics committee needs to be. And with all due respect to everyone, I can't imagine how the State Institute for Drug Control could contain all of this, because it really goes into tens of thousands of projects after that. So here I think it's a good thing that we're going to take a little less of our legal measures, even the well-meaning one, let's just say, but that would really be unrealistic. So the ethics commission, which should continue to be valid, i.e. local, multicentric plus superior, of course, the Ministry of Health has its ethics commission, the State Institute for Drug Control has its ethics commission, and they are supposed to remain for these big projects. You little, really there's no way. Because even those students wouldn't actually be able to write the paper and hand it over, because they'd be long gone by the time the entire official pier went through. They'd probably get away with the time to fix the dates. So that's the only thing I think is really well done, meaningful, that's gonna help the law and move the cooperation somewhere else. Everything else, I'm afraid I have to say that if you don't want to hear the label name, then if it's not even legal, then it's certainly a real label - the reason. As for the purchases in particular, I think the idea can be good, and I am still very friendly - as you can see, we are the opposition to dreams! You know very well in the past period what the opponents would be doing here, as they would point at us. No, we are the opposition to dreams and we want to act, we are acting, and we are very helpful, but when we do really nonsense here, we have to talk, and this is no longer good, these other proposals. That is why, and with all due respect to the agricultural committee - and I believe he asked that he acted, I would like to acknowledge all this - but again, give us tractors. We're gonna ask, too, we're gonna act, and believe me, we're gonna read this very honestly. There is one flaw, and we do not understand it at all, and this has happened in this case, because I think it is absolutely necessary that the other amendments go through the Health Committee, because we can have fun, we can also improve them so that you have this idea, because we can improve them, through Mr President, to a colleague, Benda, who wonders that we cannot - we can. The Health Committee is always working to improve things, and it would try here too, and really believe me that this discussion would once again be very substantive, helpful for one more reason. For many of you, it is just one of the amendments or simply a thing, but for me it is daily bread, dealing with these patients or working in certain systems. And it needs to be discussed, possibly improved, because here we really got into a situation where the committee, please and I keep saying that these people certainly worked there at 200 percent, tried, discussed, just didn't belong to them at all. We have to realize that. So let's take another look at some things. As for the purchases and distribution of pharmaceuticals, please, that has been a great burden on us, and to this day, for example, if any of you had a confirmed covid PCR and turned to me that you have all the conditions that comply with the prescription of drugs, we will, of course, do it, but it will not be for the prescription, it is for the request. It's kind of complicated. So I'm sure it's good if we have a simplified system here. Again, I am missing discussions with health professionals and pharmacists on the health committee, and I believe that this is not a good thing. Then there is one thing that has been said here, and it is explicitly stated, I think it was said by Mrs Lisová in her submission, through Mr President, that this is an eRecipe entry. Please be nice, I'm sure, but there has to be a possibility in this eRecipe in case of system failure that we have to use a spare system, and it's not explicitly said here. So it would be good to just put these little things in there - to make sure that there really isn't a problem for the pharmacist at all, because he doesn't get the eRecipe if the system doesn't work. So now it's finished here, too. I really miss the opinion of professional companies here, which is supposed to be consulted again with those paramedics, because maybe we could really improve some of the little things, and unfortunately that's not what happened. As far as data storage is concerned, there really is currently a problem that is showing up here. It was also with access to, as Dr Philipp said, in short, the ISIN, which is one information system where the doctor has to apply for access to the ISIN, it is not automatic. It's because he's putting in very sensitive data. And of course, all health professionals want to be assured and our patients want to be assured, and here I must say to all our citizens who have already written to me about this press that I admire their real enthusiasm for watching the press in the House, and that's good. Of course, keep following them, write to us so we can ask, because they're already worried there. What my previous speaker said, they're worried about how he's going to handle the information. Of course, I believe that the effort here is good, that it will certainly not be abused, but it is not consulted, it is not discussed. So I consider it a fundamental mistake. On one more thing that I would like to explain afterwards, because in the proposal for this amendment, the proposal for this press clearly states in the Chapter of Veterinary Immunology that there are also human autologous vaccines for a specific patient. I would just like an explanation here, possibly from those manufacturers, where, of course, the medicine is mixed, the manufacturers are different, and I would like to assure you that we understand the sentence well. It's really not that clear. And then I'd like to explain how homeopathic medicine works in veterinary medicine. You know, in human medicine, they don't have a single study against standard medicine. Even though there are opponents and supporters, that is obviously clear, and I would also like to explain this problem and the concept where they will be precisely distributed, how they will be sold, whether this can or cannot be confused with some humane approaches. There are just a number of question marks that aren't explained, and I say again, we still want to be helpful and we believe that it was all to the best extent. I just think that the Committee on Agriculture, with all due respect for its members and colleagues, has been put up with a little more than the professionally involved, and they certainly, I repeat, have fought with it as best they could, but it is not enough for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u17	Thank you, too, Madame. Your performance brought up a number of factual points. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský, Tom Philipp and others, will be the first to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u18	Mr President, dear colleagues, just briefly on the issue of the amendments tabled by Mr Philipp, which have led to a rather large wave of debate here. Whether it's a sticker or not, it certainly can't be a sticker if we have a pharmaceutical law that's open to business. Yes, in the beginning, I suppose no one anticipated that we would get to veterinary medicine when the committees were set up to deal with this press. That's what happened. However, the law on medicines is open, and it is mostly about human medicine. It is therefore perfectly legitimate that amendments to human medicine are also tabled here. And as far as the Committees are concerned, although the Committee on Health has not been designated as a guarantee or as another committee for discussion, each committee has an initiative role to play. This means, even between second and third reading, there is a possibility for us as members of the Health Committee to open this press or at least make a round table to it and discuss the amendments. And me and my colleague Philipp and others are ready for that. I think that this is a very serious issue concerning sensitive data and I think that it deserves both professional and legal discussion. And then, of course, on the basis of this discussion, we will decide whether or not to support them in the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Tom Philipp, with a factual remark, will prepare Marek Benda. So, Mr Philipp cancels his point of order. Now, then, Mr Marek Benda, with a point of fact, after which Mr Kamal Farhan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u20	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is only because the Professor responded to me that she could of course improve it, so I only pointed out to her that we would not be able to improve anything between second and third reading. What was said in the second reading cannot be improved by the third reading, only recommendations can be made there. It's all coming from the health department clearly. I also have some doubts, but as has been said by my previous speaker, my colleague Kaňkovský, let the health committee simply meet and say which things are absolutely necessary and can be carried out to some vet, and which are such a character that we will wait in peace and quiet. And otherwise, of course, I know that today's long appearance is particularly related to paragraph 74 and to the residence of foreigners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Kamal Farhan, with a factual point, will prepare Mrs Věra Adámková with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My performance has nothing to do with it. I was just here to respond to Tom Philipp. I'm gonna say that Tom Philipp, through you, here defended the switch footage of the vaccinations from the SÚKL at the UHIS. I'm not questioning that, and I understand that. But I'm saying again that there's a hidden thing that has nothing to do with it, and it's actually the opening of that central repository of electronic recipes, personal data. And I can actually read you what the recipe system - I still have time within the factual - contains. There's a register of medicinal products with restrictions, such as medical cannabis, there's a drug record, there's a consent report with access to the drug record, a data storage report with drug records, a web and mobile app service for doctors and pharmacists, and more. And all of this is being opened by this law to other organizations of the state and to other officials, in a good way, to those officials, the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u23	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Věra Adámková and Tom Philipp will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just wanted to respond to my colleague, Benda, through you, because the improvement was not meant to be improved by any person, but by the Health Committee, of course, I must insist. And otherwise, I have one more comment that was just said here, and that's because of the eRecipe. When we talked about putting eRecipe into practice at all, which we all wanted and welcomed, there were big problems with patient organizations, colleagues from the Health Committee remember it then, because they were afraid of the information that was made available. So it's really appropriate here to discuss it, to assure these people that they don't have to worry or have to, I don't know how you're gonna convince them. And put on the light of God really the best product. So far, I don't think that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u25	Thank you, too. Now, Tom Philipp with a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u26	Mr President, by your means now to Kamal Farhan, a Member and a friend. It is so that at the moment the system is set up in such a way that all data from health insurance companies flows to the IHIS, that is, even data on paid vaccinations, as well as data on the fact that insurance companies have paid for some medicines and what kind. And the organization is set to work with them discreetly, which means in some mode that is approved by the highest authorities. So we're not opening this up to some group, I don't know, some unknown group, or someone who couldn't or couldn't work that kind of data. We only choose a more friendly environment for the entry point, which is created by ISIN and which has been proven to be a covid vaccination. And then the data will be on the IHIS, but they'll be on the SÚKL, and the data on what medications were used in a particular patient, of course the IHIS has at the moment, because health insurance companies have all the paid services there, including the medications. So we really don't have to worry about spreading that information to other organizations that aren't able to work with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Kamal Farhan's point of order now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've only had a short time. I quote my previous speaker: "We don't open data for some groups who can't work with it." For me, it means we're opening up the data I listed here, and I clearly disagree with it, and I just don't think any other state institutions, including the Office for Personal Data Protection, will agree. It's just extremely, it's breaking some barriers, and it's an extremely open privacy of 10 million of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Miloslav Janulík will now speak as no factual comment has been made. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thought I'd never get to it. [[With laughter.]] I don't even know where to start. Such a reminiscence, I remember, not so much from my point of view since we fought for electronic recipes here. That's actually just a tiny cut out of what we're talking about here. To give you an idea, the press has 276 pages only as harmonisation from the EU, about 126 pages is just the press. It's such a complex material, I'll show you something like that, but the electronic recipe is just like a tiny part of what we've been hearing here. And notice, you're surprised we're doctors. Well, logically, if it's the law on pharmaceuticals, then who would you like them to perform here? And, of course, we're doing an opposition role, and from my point of view, it's a clear label. That's indisputable. The fact that this has not been put on the health committee at all, I find it absolutely absurd. So the fact that we have something to say about it, hopefully no one can blame it. But there are so many things, because really as a colleague describes it, it is actually proposed to introduce the approach of regional health care professionals to data in the system eRecipe for the purpose of performing tasks under the Health Services Act, but so far it was really only really access to anonymous data from the eRecipe system. On the other hand, if it wasn't for the erecept, can any of you imagine how we would have gone through the covid without the eRecipe? And what we've been hearing here! You, who wrote hundreds of thousands of recipes for my life, taught me about the recipe here, and when I pointed it out, I was told: This is a political debate, it has nothing to do with professionalism. Just someone who's had an angina twice in their life will lecture me on how to make a recipe. That's just ridiculous. But that's normal here, that's how it is. So I, just so you know, actually the main objective of all this is to adapt the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2019/6, when of 12 December 2018 on veterinary medicinal products, and a directive of 2001 on the production of the marketing of medicated feedingstuffs is repealed. It's like a layman -- or I don't know, one of you probably has no idea -- I know that, of course, because my father was a vet, that he just normally feeds on antibiotics, that, that's common practice. Not many people know, but it's just common. It's called Medicated Feed. And the amendment to the 2005 European Parliament Regulation and so on. [[12.10 hours]] The declared objectives of this Regulation are to reduce the administrative burden on the veterinary pharmaceutical industry, because sooner or later the administration will destroy us all, and if you take that someone has to produce food that is easily medicated, what is needed, it is absolutely Absurdistán. The internal market will be strengthened, the availability of veterinary medicinal products increased, while ensuring the highest level of public health as a higher level, including addressing the issue of antimicrobial resistance and so on, animal health. I don't know if you'll notice in public space that someone points out how many estrogens are in nature at once, that it's from using birth control, but it's all about everything, because in all chains, food and others, if you feed cattle like Auromykoin, an antibiotic, which normally happens, you have it in the chain and the biological half-life is so long, it just stays from the point of view of one human life forever and ever. The regulation on veterinary medicinal products has taken over the structure and a large part of the content of the regulation of veterinary medicinal products and the existing legislation contained in Directive 2001 with a number of elements, in more or less quantities, amended, supplemented, introduced certain elements which have not been harmonised at European level. I think it doesn't matter here, there's a lot of positives on that. One positive thing is that, in fact, what we are trying to get into our legislation now is to push through the European drug distributors' association, and on this point we have again ahead of Europe. Yeah? Finally! Well, the bill repeals certain provisions relating to veterinary medicinal products, which are regulated directly in the regulation on veterinary medicinal products, and re-establishes the powers of administrative authorities in the exercise of state administration in the field of medicinal products, veterinary of course. Furthermore, the rules laid down in the Regulation on veterinary medicinal products are added where the Regulation so requires or allows, or where necessary for the completeness of the legislation and in the light of the needs of veterinary practice. It also sets out the facts of the offences of breach of the obligation laid down by the regulation and so on and so on. It's just really, really complicated. Those dozens or hundreds of pages to read, that's not really humanly possible. And now we're debating whether that's true and that's for that, it's not for that, and so on. Well, of course, logically, when we've opened the law on pharmaceuticals, I guess the health committee will just have to worry about it, because if the law is once open, there's a need to bring in the things that have been going on for years, and you don't have to wonder that we want to take that opportunity, because we're the opposition, that's logical. Just for information and objectivity, you know, the valid wording of the Drug Act is from 2007. The Act on Medicines processes the relevant EU regulations, regulates research, production, preparation, distribution, control and disposal of medicinal products, medicinal products, medicinal substances, medicines, registration, post-registration monitoring, prescription, dispensing of medicinal products, sale of reserved medicinal products as well as the provision of information. And just to give you an idea of the changes, maybe the 2001, 1990 directives are being cut, and now the 2018 European Parliament and Council regulation is being applied, and maybe I'll just document the change to you. The active product means a substance or combination of substances presented with therapeutic or preventive properties in the case of human or animal diseases or a substance or combination of substances that can be used in humans or administered to humans or used in animals or administered to animals, for the purpose of restoring, adjusting or affecting physiological functions through pharmacological, immunological or metabolic effects or for the purpose of establishing a medical diagnosis. You see, it's just a really super professional thing. For example, in point 2, in Part 2, Section 2, the medicinal product referred to in paragraph 2 is deleted. 1 are medicinal products for human use or administration to humans, veterinary medicinal products intended for use in animals or administration to animals and are deleted: medicated feed shall be considered as veterinary medicinal products and additives shall not be considered as such. That's a seemingly small thing, but that's just a pretty crucial thing, which, of course, has similar effects in practice - now I don't know if the vets had any comment about it, I didn't catch it here, there are farmers - but I remember much from history that the vets under the Department of Agriculture stuffed the communists sometime around the year, perhaps in the 1960s, that it wasn't so until then, and I consider this to be a reminiscence that veterinary care is still under the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't know if that's a good thing or not. I remember at the time it was connected with a great deal of disapproval, because actually the wages of the veterinarians at that time on a deep tow were derived from the Ministry of Agriculture. It came out completely, I think, in the first Republic, it was in the Ministry of Health, and it wasn't until under the communists that it got under agriculture. And then when any doctor's salary was made, it was never about veterinary surgeons. They were paid just like a zootologist, figuratively, okay? It is also being cut off: veterinary immunological medicinal products administered to induce active or passive immunity, so here we are in vaccination, also in vaccination of animals, because we are also inoculating the animals. Reminiscence - the word vaccination is from a Latin vacca, which is a cow, because Pasteur was trying it on cows at the time, the smallpox, so that's why it's a vaccination. Or diagnosis of immunity status, because the so-called tuberculin, which is done in cattle, is simply the diagnosis of immunity, but this is just being cut off, and the apparent slight change means a huge intervention in practice. Behind letter d), veterinary immunological medicinal products, is inserted there newly, okay? It's like it's gonna get easier, but if it means simplification in that practice, it's like goddamn judgment. Then, for example, cuts are made: veterinary autogenic vaccines, which mean inactivated immunological veterinary medicinal products made from pathogens or antigens obtained from an animal or from animals in breeding, and so on and so on, okay? But it remains there on the Margo of Professor Adámková, it remains there in that section 2 in the letter. (g) homeopathic preparations made up of basic homeopathic substances according to the homeopathic manufacturing process described by the European pharmacopoeia. In our human pharmacopoeia, we have one homeopathic medicine, the name is Mastodinon, I quite densely prescribe it and with a good effect, it is in human pharmacopoeia the only homeopathic medicine that is mentioned there, but here, she pointed to it, but here it is regulated in that point (g), or if it does not contain a pharmacopoeia officially used at present in at least one Member State of the European Union, hereinafter only a Member State. I don't know what homeopathics are, just who uses them in other states, and if they're even used ad usum vetinarium, I don't know. However, a homeopathic product is considered to be a product, even if it does not have the full characteristics of the medicinal products and the substances contained therein are not always substances with a proven medicinal effect. Even the layman knows that homeopathic medicine is actually in molecular quantity, from our - as I would say - cartesian reason completely incomprehensible, because there are just a few atoms in the dilution, but I don't know if you've tried it on, I do, it just works. I don't know how it's possible, it's the things between heaven and earth, but it just works. Radiopharmaceutical, it is simply a huge group, a pity that Professor Válek is not there, it is his parquet, his courtship, which means medicinal products that, if they are ready for use, contain one or more radionuclides or isotopes incorporated under medical purposes, metastable technetium for example. Radionuklid generators, because somewhere you have to prepare it, which means systems containing bound maternal radionuclide, from which the daughter's radionuclide is formed, which is separated by elution or other means, it all remains there. Then, for example, under point (m), there were plant human products, they were plant human products, and now it's human plant products. Like I don't know what the practical meaning is, why this is happening. Human transfusion again, there was a human transfusion, now there's a reverse word for it. There are just hundreds of things like that, and I'm just giving you this as an example. [[12.20 hours]] Try to read it and you will find that the material is so complex - I doubt anyone has read it at all because it is logically veterinary, and the substance means any substance regardless of its origin and so on and so on. Well, there's a lot of stuff here. I'm not gonna burden you with it. But I'm just gonna go back to that little segment, and that's eRecipe and the data. As I was saying, so far the IHIS had only anonymous data, it didn't have it specifically, and now you want to break it, and for us, it's an unprecedented invasion of the privacy of all patients, residents. We're all exes, current or future patients, right? So senectus ipsa est morbus - age itself is a disease and we all have it. This is intended to validate the addition of data already kept, but in my opinion, this claim is not based entirely on the truth, because it would not be validation or addition, but a fundamental extension. If it's not anonymous, it's specific, it's not validation, but it's an extension. And this change should not, in my view, take place in the legal state at the last minute of the amendment, with all due respect to colleagues, but it should simply be discussed, evaluated and considered in the context of GDPR and all of this, because it is a really highly unsystemic intervention in the current resolution of the record, such as vaccination, when the system solution will change again after a very short period of time. We're recording it into one of the SÚKL systems. Like my colleague said, there's two of them. One is the ISIN - an integrated system of infectious diseases, it's the eočkování. Registration of vaccination as part of the eRecipe system is an approved solution. It is according to the strategy of eGovernment by the Department of Main Architect of the Ministry of Interior approved by the Government of the Czech Republic. It's not that easy to run into a changeling. It's actually simple, but it's a question of what impact it's going to have and if it just doesn't get swept away. The proposal aims to standardize or fix a solution that was considered provisional and temporary. The covid vaccination record is being carried out so far into ISIN, which has already been said here, but there is no legislative basis for this. The appropriate emergency measures have been lifted, so the amendment is trying to fix it. But the question is, is this how it works? The argument is to remove the duplication of the registration of vaccination, while the amendment introduces a duplication of records. [[unintelligible]] So isin is in the UHIS and eOcculation is SÚKL, so the devil knows his way around it. I really don't know where the truth is, I have no idea, so you can expect irregularities in the data. There is no duplication in the current legislative regulation of the registration obligation which would have to be removed. There is only one obligation and that is to record vaccinations in the eRecipe system. The connection of the eInoculation module to the application is already ready Period - that's what my colleague Philipp here said, that's true - as well as integration with the National Contact Point for Electronic Health. This is supposed to be the primary source of vaccination data and the transcription. The amendment would fundamentally undermine the current integration process and, in my view, devalue the money already spent, which was possible because it cost all of it a lot of money. The proposed solution, from my point of view, is also a waste of taxpayers' money, because it would need to and would probably be worth a much more comprehensive debate. If the burden, as you say, is really reduced for the veterinary pharmaceutical industry, and it strengthens the internal market, I have no idea, because there will be some of the provisions, as I have declared to you, concerning veterinary products. In my opinion, the adaptation requires that it work, so other legislation would have to be changed, because Amendment No. 40/1995, on the regulation of advertising, No. 91 on feed - it is from 1996 - and Act No. 634, about administrative fees, because that's where it even applies to those charges. Because for me, it's - I'm not gonna suggest any rejections and things like that - but it's between second and third reading, and I think we can talk about it, but I can't do it for me. I don't know. So I said what I thought was meant to be said, and I guess the House will decide what to do with it. Because of me it's like this - of course you can say it, yeah, but if it has the validity you expect it to be, God forbid. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Michal Kučera's factual point, then with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u32	Thank you for the floor. I just thought that I would briefly sum up the discussion before the President came forward. I just wanted the debate that came up here. I think that we have quite agreed that there are completely legitimate amendments in the Drug Act, and this is no sticker. I think we agreed on that one step at a time. Because it was obvious that if the amendment concerns ethical commissions, it is in agreement with that and it is not considered an adhesive. As far as eRecipe is concerned, it is no longer so clear about the content or the content, but we will decide by voting. I would also like to point out and recall that the Committee on Health can take this issue actively itself, it can discuss it, it can adopt some opinions that will be presented here at the third reading. Then it's gonna be a vote, and maybe it won't pass. I have no comments or reservations or support whatsoever on this factual matter or, on the contrary, a negative position. I am merely commenting on the legislative process, which I think is mostly okay and there is no dramatic error. On the contrary, I think this is how it's done right. I do not know why this is the case, whether it is right or not, but, of course, the logical thing is that when this law opens up, then both areas are mixed there. That means, the debate, whether it's being presented by the Minister of Health or the Minister of Agriculture - well, logically one of them, because it always involves some part of one and the same law. So, please, let's just be a little bit agreeable that that's how it is, and if the health area in the House wants to deal with this in some way, then please, he still has a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u33	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Věra Adámková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just a few comments on what President Kučera has just said. Of course, the health public must have comments about this, because it's just not good, that's why we have them there. We want to improve the situation and repeat that we are so reconciled that there is really no need to encourage us to do so. It's obvious you weren't here last time, you'd have seen how unbearable the opposition was. But we don't return the same coin and we want expertise. So don't worry, we'll always be okay if it's a good thing, you can count on it. I would just like to say to everyone here that I take the floor of my colleague Kaňkovský and my colleague Philipp. I'm sure we want to talk about it, and we're ready for it, so we're very agreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u35	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mr Janulík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u36	Thank you for the floor. Only to the margo of wanting to change what works well. It's like good horses don't fold. But just to give you an idea, this year the number of vaccination records in the eRecipe system - I don't know why to touch it - is 514 469 so it just goes up in weeks - there maybe at week 24 in 2022 - 45 420. So it works perfectly, the system, and now the duality just comes back into it. Imagine - the minister thinks it's here because he's a farmer, so he's got no idea about it, but if he's sitting in his office and he's still doing it, he's gonna tap it, one, two, three, and now he's gonna have to do it how? Like twice? Or is it connected somewhere? But again, it's just a complication. I'm seeing those coworkers with their eyes in a column again, and they're like, "Oh, my ježišmarjá, what are you guys doing back there? Then please keep that in mind, too. [[12.30 hours]] I know those officials who design it don't see it all the way down, so unfortunately it is. But that is why we, the people of practice and practice, are Members, because these people have sent us here to guard this. We watched it, so don't be surprised that we don't like it, because then you come and face it. There's got to be some argument. There's nothing to argue about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Kamal Farhan will now speak after the agreement, and then President Schillerová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again allow me to speak briefly in the context of the general debate, and given that we did not have the opportunity to discuss the amendment that Mrs Lisová made here, through you, so I would like to take a brief look at a few comments and comments that we will probably not change or correct at the moment, but I would like them to be heard here because it may happen that someone will notice and deal with this in the next legislative process. Madam, you have put forward, my tone is at peace with you, Mr President. I wrote it down when I got my hands on it, a few points, a few paragraphs, which I would just briefly comment on. I'm not saying they're controversial, but they might sound different from my point of view, but, of course, it's the subject of the translator. I also understand how some have been commented on in the explanatory memorandum. I'll take it, and I've only got five points here, so I'll be brief. I found paragraph 112b, par. 2, it states that - like this, in the explanatory memorandum - that this paragraph de facto makes the ministry loosen its hands in some way so as not to be bound by obligations, by certain European directives that place precise, specific things on the distributor. I understand that for myself, and now I'm gonna say that if I was sitting in that ministry, it would feel good, like it was for the Ministry. But I'm gonna ask as an MP, and I'd probably ask you in other words, why is there a bianco check in there, too, to buy drugs? Why wasn't it enough to have a delivery in order to provide distribution? My second question concerns paragraph 2. 2, I just want to hear in the future, or even here, if, when this is applied, the Public Procurement Act will be applied. That's just information I could use. Then, here it is. 2, why didn't he rewrite himself so that it sounded that the selected distribution obligations that the Ministry of Health couldn't carry out were defined directly by the government's consent? Here it was mentioned that the Government's approval would be there, I understand that, but in other words, that the Ministry of Health should receive a general pardon, but that the Government should write in its resolution in accordance with Section 11, which the Ministry of Health does not actually have to fulfil its obligations in the present case. It's legitimate, but the government would tax it what the Ministry doesn't have to do, and from my point of view there's some greater public interest, there's, I'm going to say it, some pandemic or anything else, which is why the purchases are going to be made, so that the government can clarify it. Then I have the last two points in § 2c, par. 5. My question is, why do you automatically expect all these medicines to be fully covered by health insurance? I'm not here to pay my dues, but even if it's ever considered in the future that it can have a symbolic supplement or whatever, this option is denied at this point. And then I was intrigued by § 32, par. 2, where you introduce brand new fixed prices. This isn't about fixing the maximum price, it's about fixing the fixed price. The fixed price shall be fixed for cigarettes. It means that the manufacturer must not give a discount, the distributor must not either, pharmacies also cannot compete with discounts, simply the cure will cost in all pharmacies as well. On the one hand, from my point of view, it doesn't have to be completely wrong, on the other hand, imagine that in time the price of this supplied drug will fall. For example, further purchase of the same medicine will be cheaper, but the price and remuneration, the full remuneration is already set in Section 32c and does not allow any change, reduction or increase in the price, or the remuneration will still be the same, even if it can be cheaper. And there's no way to solve that. Of course, you can oppose me that this is dealt with in paragraph. 9, but that's not enough from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with the priority right of President Schillerová. We are in a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I certainly do not intend to speak professionally and factually, because I am leaving this to my colleagues, doctors from the Health Committee, and I am not going to call on the Minister of Agriculture to speak to this, because I would not consider it fair, but at least you can see the absurdity of my colleagues, renowned doctors - and now there is nothing against you, Minister - but I don't even think you can respond to my colleagues, Dr. Janulík, Professor Adámková and so on. [[Laughs in the hall.]] At least you see the absurdity that the amendment doesn't belong here. I'm not having a legal debate right now. I could, if it isn't a sticker. I think it doesn't belong here, but mostly it belongs to the Health Committee, and the Health Minister should be sitting here, because when this was discussed in the last parliamentary term, the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, was very much on the subject. So I'm putting a procedural motion to interrupt this point until the Minister of Health is present. Thank you and please vote immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u41	Yes, so just interrupting this point into the presence of the Minister of Health. I'm the one who got the bang. I'm hearing an application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. We'll wait for the number of applicants to settle. For those who have arrived, I will repeat that the Chairman of the ANO Club has made a procedural proposal, namely the interruption of this point to the presence of the Minister of Health. I will put this procedural proposal to a vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 126 Members voted in favour of the 58th vote against 56. The motion was denied. And so we will continue to discuss it. I'm going to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate on this point? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the rapporteur? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As rapporteur for this press, I would like to thank everyone for the debate. As a doctor, of course, I thank you for the field trip that Mr. Secretary and I were able to interrogate. No offense, of course I'm aware of what my colleague Vít Kaňkovský said here, with the fact that the law, when it opened, was basically opening up in relation to the veterinary law. The fact that then, and I want to believe that if the Ministry of Health knew that they were going to put amendments there, even as far as human medicine is concerned, the Health Committee could at least be the one that dealt with the press. We're sorry that it didn't happen. [[12.40 hours]] I welcome the fact that the Committee on Health is ready to deal with this press and then to give us all an opinion which amendments are absolutely necessary to adopt in this amendment. And if there are such amendments that could be postponed, which will cause no problem, then I would advocate that we not be forced to do so, the agricultural committee as a guarantor, to do so only on the basis of recommendations from colleagues who will, in effect, present it to us on the agricultural committee. I want to believe that representatives of the Ministry of Health will come to the agricultural committee and that they will be able to present those amendments to us on Tuesday and to some extent defend them. And that is one more thank you on my part for having discussed this here and for having been able to discuss it in the Committee on Agriculture, because I believe that at least the veterinary part needs to be discussed and put into effect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u43	Thank you, rapporteur, for the final word. And now I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Members have applied for the floor, first Mr Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm glad that, after the obstructions of alien residence or because of the Alien Residence Act, we're finally getting to this debate. I would like to sign up for three amendments, which I have already justified in the general debate. The first is in the system under number 740, the second is under number 780 and the third is under number 829. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u45	Thank you. Next in line for the detailed debate is Mrs Lisová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I hereby subscribe to Martina Lisová's amendment, Tom Philipp, Jan Kuchař, Zdeňka Němečková Crkvenjaš, Vít Kaňkovskýý and Róbert Teleky, which I presented in detail in the general debate. The amendment is recorded in the system under number 905. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u47	Thank you very much and the last one to be logged in to a detailed debate is Mr Philipp.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to sign up for Amendment 840 by Members Philipp, Svoboda, Lisová, Kuchař, Kaňkovský, Teleky, Adámková and Bělohlávková, as well as for Amendment 904 by Members Philipp, Lisová, Kuchař, Němečková Crkvenjaš, Kaňkovskýý and Teleky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-17-ps2021-025-08-007-013.u49	Thank you, too. No one else is reporting to the detailed debate on this press, so I am ending the detailed debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? I suppose it isn't. I will ask the rapporteur if there have been any proposals that we should now vote on to re-establish the law or shorten the time limits? They didn't. Thank you very much, so I finish second reading of this proposal and at the same time end discussing item 13. I thank both the rapporteur and the petitioner. Now I dare to load my apologies. Mr Roman Bělor apologizes today from 13.45 to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Marek Výborný apologizes today from 12.15 to the end of the day for reasons of work, the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 11.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Milan Feranec apologises today between 13 and 16 o'clock because of illness, the Minister of the Environment Anna Hubáčková apologises for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today from 11 a.m. to the end of the day for reasons of work, and finally Mr Šimek apologizes today from 13 a.m. to the end of the day for work. So let's continue with the next point, which is point 11. I'm just pointing out that we have a fixed point at 13 o'clock, so we're going to have to stop, but we're going to have to stop at 11. This is about
