ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening another day of the 45th session of the Chamber of Deputies. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. For this reason, the staff of the Organising Committee will be present here in the hall to whom you may submit your oral submissions. We should now address paragraph 167, which are the answers of the members of the Government to written interpelations, but on the basis of the agreement of all the Members' Clubs, I am interrupting the meeting within 10 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the adjourned 45th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I already have one communication, Mr Kubík votes with replacement card number 33. I declare that the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Adámková Věra - health reasons, Babiš Andrej - working reasons for the whole day, Adámková Věra also for the whole day, Babišová Andrea for the whole day and from 12 o'clock - working reasons, Balaštíková Margita from 1.00 to 00.00 for health reasons, Bartošek Jana until 13 o'clock - working reasons, Bělor Roman from 16.30 - working reasons, Benešík Ondřej for the whole day - foreign travel, Berki Jan for the whole day - foreign travel, Brázdil Milan for the whole day - working reasons, Dražilová Lenka until 11.30 - working reasons, ochodnický Martin for the whole day - international travel, Purple Eva for the Olšáková Michaela - Berenika reasons, Hájek Martin for the whole day - medical reasons - medical reasons, Helebrant Tomáš for the Pokorná Jermanová - Jaroslava reasons, Peštová Jiří from 14 o'clock - working reasons, Jílková Marie from 14 o'clock - working Vildumetzová, Martina for the whole day - working reasons, Kasal David for the whole working day - working Pavel, Klíma Pavelka Josef from 14.30 - working reasons, Kott Josek from 14.30 - working reasons, Kukla Martin within 12 hours - working reasons, Pošarová Ondřej, Lochman O's. Marie within 11 hours - working reasons, Potůčková Lucie all day - working reasons, Pražák David all day - medical reasons, Richter Jan within 16 hours - health reasons, Růžička Pavel whole day - medical reasons, Staněk Pavel whole day - medical reasons, Šebelová Michaela whole day - working reasons, Šimek David whole day - working reasons, Válková Helena within 11 hours - working reasons, Voborská Milana by 12.30 - working reasons, Volný Jan within 12 hours - working reasons, Vondrák Ivo whole day - working reasons, Vrána Petr whole day - medical reasons, Wenzl Milan whole day - medical reasons, Zajíčková Renáta whole day - family reasons, Ženíšek Marek up to 13 hours - foreign travel. They apologize from the members of the government: Balaš Vladimír all day - foreign travel, Baxa Martin until 13:00 and from 18:00 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel all day - working reasons, Černochová Jana from 10 to 14:30 - working reasons, and I have another apology here with Minister Černochová, he apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, Langšádlová Helena all day - working reasons - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan full negotiated prices - foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk all day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít within 13 hours - working reasons, Jozef Síkela whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal whole day - working reasons and Vlastimil Válek within 16 hours for working reasons. I have a message here: Mr Bžoch votes with replacement card number 31. So many apologies. We will begin today's meeting by discussing paragraph 167, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. I would remind you that, according to the approved agenda, we will continue immediately after the discussion of paragraph 167, namely the House Press 342, the amendment to the Act on State Social Support in the shortened negotiations. I would also like to point out that it is possible to submit applications for oral interpelations at the latest within 11 hours and then to draw them. Initiating point
