ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 / House print 284/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, whom I ask to take the floor. Please, you have the floor. The rest of you, colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, allow me briefly to justify the proposed press on behalf of the Government in the second reading. The reason for the submission is the effects of the ongoing war conflict in Ukraine, the consequences of which were unknown at the time of the state budget for 2022, the increase in the population's living costs caused by both inflation and the impact of the energy crisis, the response to the energy crisis, including the provision of strategic resources and the adjustment of the revenue side of the budget resulting from the current cash flow and expected economic development. I just want to start by pointing out that the state budget amendment is being negotiated in a regime other than the state budget itself, that is, at first reading, we did not set total revenue, total expenditure, and hence the state budget deficit, but, according to the amendments that will be adopted at third reading, the value of total revenue, total expenditure and thus deficit can also be adjusted. I am saying that, in my opinion, all amendments will therefore be voted out in contrast to many amendments that fall during the state budget and very often reach into the government's budgetary reserve, where, in the standard discussion of the state budget proposal, there is a legal limit below which the government's budgetary reserve must not fall. I have seen in the system, I do not know, I would say dozens of amendments, today may fall others, each of them we will judge individually, regardless of who is the author of this or other specific amendment, and the House as a souvenir in the third reading will decide on those standard data I just mentioned. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] In the state budget, I would actually announce at this point the final total amount of revenue, the final total amount of expenditure and the final balance of the state budget, in this case that is not the case. I know that most of you know this, but just to be sure, I felt it necessary to mention it at the beginning of my second reading. However, as the proposal is designed, total revenue of 1,678.3 trillion, or 1,678.3 billion, is expected, which is an increase of 65 billion. That's where we took into account the tax collection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u3	I ask you, colleagues, to keep your conversations quiet and move to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u4	I could raise my voice, but then I think there'd be unnecessary noise if I yelled into this microphone. So an increase in VAT by approximately 25 billion on the income side, an increase in corporation tax payments of 9.2 billion, an increase in personal income tax of 10.2 billion, an increase in gambling tax of 800 million and a reduction in excise duty on mineral oils by 3.8 billion. In addition, income from social security premiums and contributions to state employment policy is increased by 9 billion; in the Ministry of Health chapter, revenues of 4.9 billion are reduced due to established payment principles with health insurance companies and lower than the expected interest of insured persons in vaccination. At the same time, the proposal increases the expenditure of the state budget by CZK 115 billion. I'm not gonna read all the items, I'm just gonna mention the ones that are the highest. This means strengthening social spending due to rising inflation and increased energy prices for the population of CZK 29 billion, increasing expenditure related to the effects of the pandemic covid by 4.4 billion, strengthening areas facing the effects of the energy crisis, including transformation costs and the first stage of the austerity tariff of CZK 30.3 billion, increasing expenditure related to the war conflict in Ukraine by almost 23 billion, spending titles to support regional development in particular in the area of housing of 2.8 billion, increasing the other expenditure of chapters by 18.2 billion, of which the government debt operator by CZK 4 billion, tariff components of salary of 2.2 billion, purchase of vehicles of the Police of the Czech Republic of 900 million, film incentives of 570 million and additional unexpected expenditures increased by CZK 7.4 billion in the government budget reserve. I personally took part in two meetings of the Budget Committee at which this press was discussed before the second reading. A total of three amendments were tabled, one of which, if memory does not deceive me, was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Budgets, a transfer of CZK 60 million from the chapter of the National Sports Agency in a specific indicator of the grant to the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, in a specific indicator of support for youth activities by the same amount of CZK 60 million. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 284/1. And I ask you once again to keep your voice down, because we will now hear, and I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Josef Bernard, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Once again, colleagues, please move your conversations to the lobby. I really don't want to name it, but please, colleagues and colleagues, please keep your voice down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Budgets discussed the amendment at its meeting on 21 September at its 17th meeting. I am obliged to read you the resolution. Following the opening words of Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, Josef Bernard's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that, with a government bill amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, Parliament's Press 284, agreed as amended by the amendments; II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Assembly of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. This is what I did. As has been said here, there was only one amendment that I would approve of by the Committee on Budgets. He was involved in the transfer of funds to non-sporting extracurricular organizations. Typically, they are organizations such as Junák, Pioneer or Young Firefighters. The amendment remembered that it had transferred CZK 500 million to the National Sports Agency to compensate for the energy crisis. On the other hand, we did not think about these organisations, which, for example, in the case of Junák, have an excellent contribution to the education of our youth. This has been corrected in my opinion by dividing the amount of CZK 500 million into CZK 440 million in favour of the NSA and 60 million in favour of these other extracurricular organizations. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, too. Before we proceed to the debate, there is an apology that has come to an end in the meantime. Vice-President Věra Kovářová apologizes at 17:00 for work reasons. With replacement card number 31, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will vote. [[9.20 hours]] I am therefore now opening up a general debate in which several Members have made themselves known with priority rights. Vice-President Karel Havlíček, President Schillerová, is following twelve Members of Parliament. Now, according to the date of the applications, Karel Havlíček was the first, but gentlemanly agreed with the President. The President will therefore be the first to speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I thank my colleague for giving me priority. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, today's second reading of the budget amendment for 2022 is for me, I dare say bitter-sour. I suppose you have any idea what this disgust is caused by. What we have been following since the current five-wheeler has been quite obvious is a mockery of all the principles of the budgetary procedure, and we are moving within the last period somewhere where we have never been in modern history. This week's draft state budget - and I know we're talking about Amendment 22, but I just can't forgive it - presented this week's draft state budget for 2023, in which Minister Stanjura has added CZK 150 billion on the revenue side with absolutely no supporting documents, makes me feel that the budget is a completely necessary document for him, where he simply throws some numbers, and the most important parameter is to make it look as good as possible. It's actually just marketing numbers that make no sense, but no one cares because they're not gonna follow it anyway. Within the logic applied by Minister Stanjura, he could now present a new state budget amendment with a newly devised tax, such as chimney tax, window tax, or that the taxation of multinational corporations and revenue from these taxes would be exactly CZK 330 billion, so he could actually present a balanced budget. It would have worked out the same way. The attitude and arrogance we follow is completely unprecedented. I really believe that Minister Stanjura is already on the verge of legislation and is breaking the law. After all, the fact that the state budget is just a piece of paper to him has proved to us several times. The vast majority of new budget expenditures are not related to the effects of the war in Ukraine, as the five-wheelers are trying to present it to us. When I look into the guts of an amendment to the budget for 2022, I see updates to the expenditures that were not quantified enough by the Minister, because at the time of the submission of his draft state budget, he already knew that the war in Ukraine would create a smokescreen for him and that these updates would be hiding precisely behind this conflict. Updating sickness insurance, unemployment benefits, contributions to the employment of people with disabilities, compensation for discounts on fares and so on and so on, they clearly make there an item of over CZK 14 billion. We agreed here as part of the first reading with Minister Stanjura that the compensation for Ukraine's assistance in the context of the refugee crisis and similar amounts to about 22 billion. At the same time Minister Stanjura promised help to entrepreneurs, or the government promised help to entrepreneurs, Minister Síkela also, in the order of 30 billion crowns. I'm asking, and I'm sure my colleague Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the House, will be asking in a moment - where is this assistance located? The media information shows, and the Minister confirmed it to me during our discussion on the Event, comments on Monday night that it should still be paid in 2022. That's clearly correct. We've been calling for this help for months. If we do not want the industry and the private sector to fall, the government must rush in with help immediately. But where are the funds, where are they in the budget? I don't see them in this novel. So the deficit is going to be 330 billion, or it's going to be different and so on, plus 30, so 360? Minister, please, I am asking, and I believe that we will get an answer - where is this 30 billion-dollar aid and when will it actually be paid? That's why I keep saying that you're making the budget a waste of paper. Why can't you draw up a budget fairly for once? Fair to us, to the people, but also to the companies, so everyone knows what they're up to. After all, Minister Stanjura opposes the amendment to the state budget as a piece of paper not only from a content point of view but also from a procedural point of view. I demand and call for the state budget amendment, and I have said it here in the context of the 2022 budget discussion, so it has been several months, specifically since the actual state budget was presented. For one thing, I drew attention to the very fact that the state budget was a standard law, and from the moment of adoption of this law it was quite clear that it would not be respected in its original form. That's unacceptable to me. Laws are, or must, to be observed. Unfortunately, however, as former Minister of Finance, I must also point out that it is quite clear that any effort to consolidate public finances is being postponed. The current five-calice, though committed to her in her pre-election rhetoric, left her completely and completely. The amendment to the state budget for 2022 presents expenditure in an unprecedented amount exceeding 2 trillion Czech crowns for the first time in the history of our country. Yes, today it may seem that, contrary to the 2023 proposal, which was presented on Monday after approval by the government, which contains expenses of CZK 2 trillion 223 billion, this amount is no longer such a shocking impression. The Minister of Finance, and I understand that, must fight for every crown, for every million, for every billion. If I forgive and be generous with this government that the amendment contains no effort to consolidate public finances, it is no longer unforgivable in the draft budget 2023. I believe we will get to that very soon, that the budget will come on the agenda of this House. But I would already like to remind you that the government was talking about reducing employees in the public sector a year ago, but in practice it goes in the opposite direction. [[Number]] She was talking about digitization and related savings. But there's another one. It offers vice taxes on the income side. Better and more efficient tax collection, which, of course, doesn't mean I'm canceling the EET. And so I could continue here, and I will continue when we discuss the draft budget for 2023. Just in context, I must remind you, because these are not just my words, but I say again, they are also the words of the National Budget Council, which presented them about 14 days ago. [[9.30 hours]] Unfortunately, Minister Stanjura only relies on increased tax revenue as a result of economic growth and dynamic inflation. I remind you that in 2022, this government has about CZK 127.4 billion on its income side due to inflation compared to the proposal that our government once prepared. Of course, it's VAT collection of 25 billion, corporate tax of 9.2 billion, so I could name it, social security insurance and so on. And, of course, the extreme possibility of increasing the dividends of state companies, whether it is CEZ, where this dividend will be the highest thanks to extremely high profits, but they are also state forests, state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic and others. Unfortunately, the current five-wheelers still have no idea how to deal economically with public finances. That is why our movement has prepared a number of amendments, and I am asking the five-wheelers, the Minister, to actually listen to our proposals and to consider their support. These are sensible proposals which are created by experts from specific areas and their aim is now quite obvious, helping Czech households and companies. Of course, these amendments will be presented mainly by the shadow ministers of our shadow government, but also by other colleagues. Dear colleagues, Czech citizens are in a very special situation. The trust of entrepreneurs is below its long-term average in the context of short-term surveys. Consumer confidence is at its historically lowest point. Consumer pessimism is extreme. Nearly a third of households say that they are barely going to make ends meet today. Our amendments are directed at these very people, because it is our duty as Members to help these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u9	Therefore, Vice-President Havlíček is now registered with priority rights and will be followed by Mr Hrnčíř as appointed by the SPD to deliver an opinion. I'm sorry, there's a factual remark I missed. The Minister's reporting with fact, he wants to respond. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u10	It is quite smiling when Mrs Schillerová, Queen of Instagram, speaks of a piárním budget. Of course, I could vote not only for me, but the whole government's favorite method, then with communists hand in hand to approve the deficit of half a trillion, and then at the end of the year say, it's only 377, or just 420 etc. We're not going that way. I apologize, a few dates for Mrs Schillerová: On 11 February our draft state budget came to the Chamber of Deputies, Putin attacked Ukraine on 24 February. And Mrs Schillerová blames me that the effects of the war, which began 13 days after the press came to the Chamber of Deputies, are not included in the draft budget. Well, I don't know if Putin announced the ANO movement in advance that they already knew, I don't think so. You can see for yourself how pointless this criticism is. And now for the austerity policy. I said that at first reading, I would welcome the proposals that will focus on savings in the state budget. I had your famous material analyzed, where there are 28 points to help citizens and businesses. There is a fiscal impact of 1.3 trillion crowns. Your chimera, the ceiling in Slovakia, if we went this way, would only cost the budget of CZK 650 billion next year! At the same time, I hear that 300 billion is a lot, but they themselves propose in one single measure of 28,660 billion. And as your holding press already knows, there is no ceiling in Slovakia, as you have presented for months and months. And read the comments of the Prime Minister of the Slovak Republic from this or from last week. I am always jealous of other governments' actions in the debate in the Czech Parliament. But you were constantly beating us on the head with that splash in Slovakia. Well, at least come and say it's not like that. But if you want it, say it - it'll cost 600 billion. Write a changeling like that and we'll vote on it. But then don't say 300 is a lot when in one single step you propose 600 billion expenses. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u11	Now, with the factual remark of President Schillerová, the Vice-President will wait. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I wasn't talking about booby-trapped in Slovakia. You didn't say a word about it in my speech. You must have been sitting on your ears, Minister. It's a PR budget. It's a PR budget. I just said that the effects of the war were 22 billion and that 22 billion were agreed here, so it's impossible to create a smokescreen that you're doing the amendment because of the effects of the war. You guys just have over $14 billion there, you're leveling out the mandatorial expenses, so you crossed them out so you can beat yourself in the breast that the deficit is only 280 billion. You took 14 from public health insurance. So you're just messing with it, and all you care about is the deficit. You don't do the honest work of the Treasury Secretary to negotiate to talk to those who have problems, including unions, chambers, etc. Watch it in the media. Otherwise, we've already revised 14 resolution points today, we've dropped some of the proposals, because you've gone to the ceiling. And don't tell me it's worth 700 billion. It's just that if you went the way we suggested, if you weren't an elitist government that just wishes the elites here, and you put a stop to it with the manufacturers, you're already advised by the president, then there's no way you're gonna have to throw that money away. But once you say 130, 30, for a businessman of 160, then you say it's only going to be 100, then you say that the energy saving tariff is 66, so it's only 16 in 2022. So please don't lecture me, I was behind every number, and stop blaming me for not doing it. You did it on Monday, the $2.5 billion digital tax that our government approved, and the former House discussed at first reading. I would never do anything more in my life to do what you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u13	Time, yes. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Stanjura is registered, and then Minister Jurečka follows. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u14	So 22 billion are net expenditures for Ukrainian citizens and for Czech citizens who accommodate them. But the impact is, of course, much wider, and these are compensation for Czech citizens, who are much higher than compensation for refugees who have fled from Putin. That's not what you're saying. You voted for those laws. Were you in favour of a donation of CZK 5,000 per child? They were. 8 billion. Are you opposed to buying a strategic gas supply for 8.5 billion? They weren't. These are all impacts. Second extraordinary valorization. These are all the effects of the war on Czech citizens in Ukraine and we compensate it for the Czech citizens. I was just saying that we had the ceiling calculated at 1.50 kroner per kilowatt hour. It's 660 billion. If you've dropped it, okay, we've only got 600 billion left on the roads. You propose more and more spending, you have every right to do so, and at the same time you say that the deficit should be lower. Unless you propose an increase in income by some 600 billion - I don't know where we'd get it - you're not actually telling the truth. You juggle numbers and do PR because you don't care about the deficit at all. I don't like how high deficits we have, but when we drew up the budget for 2022, we didn't know Putin was going to invade Ukraine. And those impacts not only on the Czech Republic, but on all European countries are economically far-reaching. If you're saying that we're not, that we're the only country that doesn't fall for it, that's just not true. And knowingly, knowingly, you're lying. Otherwise, I don't have to call it. Yes, I've said it before, but I'll do it again for the third time. If you bring proposals to save the state budget and they have a head and a heel, I will certainly support them. I haven't seen the designs yet, but we still have time. So if you bring them in, you can rely on a fair debate and possibly support from me and from the government coalition. So far, all your proposals are heading towards a substantial increase in the deficit. They're not going in any other direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u15	Time. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Jurečka followed by President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. I would like to respond to a few facts that, unfortunately, are not true and that have been raised here. I think it was 2020, you touched it here, Madame, and that was the debate about their involvement, and that is the debate on 2023, revenue which is not yet supported by legislative change. So that's when you were standing here, and the digital tax was based on the draft budget, and you defended it, and you said that's how it is, and there's no other way to do it. And that was a very different time. That was not the time of this turbulent situation. So we are dealing with these impacts, but at the same time, these legislative changes are also being worked on. So, please, don't go and blame the finance minister for the thing you did here yourself, but under different circumstances. [[9.40 hours]] And then, as you say here, we're the elite government. Can you tell me what it's like? I'm like a member of the government as an elitist? Or what the government is elitist about? The government that's been valorizing the living minimum twice this year. A government that provides funds for statutory remuneration in the framework of pensions. We don't brag about doing anything extra. It's legal valorisation, but we need to find the funds for the pensions, too. And they're just going into the deficit. And we've also put here for next year's next year a thing that concerns parenting for moms for 19 billion crowns. These are all things that help these people, the citizens here. And you're saying we're like some kind of elitist government? After all, the government is trying to help within possible compromises. We see that we have the lowest proportion of people who are at risk of pension poverty throughout the European Union. We are taking targeted measures - and versus the proposals that you are making here, which would mean hundreds of billions of crowns of larger budgets in order. So let's get this straight in the YES movement, what you're saying here in this speech, what your colleagues and your President say when they make other suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u17	With a factual point, President Schillerová is now registered and followed by Minister Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u18	First, to Minister Stanjur quickly. Well, Minister, please, you're obliged to prepare your savings. You're supposed to be ready, you're committed to it, you're behind you. And the opposite is true. I'm not dealing with 2022, I'm dealing with 2023. You don't have a single austerity proposal, the only, only structural change that you would suggest reducing the structural deficit. I'd forgive you if it was in the longer term, but you have nothing at all. So please don't talk here. And your deficits. Well, please, the 100 billion, the 150 that you have virtual for 2023, add a deficit to that. And that's your total deficit. Not the fake number, the false number, 295. Well, Minister Jurečka, I was talking about it a little while ago. I guess you didn't have time to record it. Two and a half billion was a digital tax, 2.5 billion was a normative text. It was approved by our government, it went through the first reading. Yes, the rate went down to 5%, so at the end of the day, 2.5 billion below the discernment of any budget. And you're juggling 150 billion, which you have absolutely nothing to support! And why are you an elitist government? Well, because you're protecting the manufacturer. If you'd put it on their side, they wouldn't have to make ten-fold, but they still would've had billions. That's why you're the elite government to me. And then you'll be making excuses for not being able to do this or that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u19	Minister Stanjura with his de facto. She's looking forward to it, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u20	Thanks for the word. So the money is there, which Mrs Schillerová says is virtual. They're on the expense page for extra help with prices, with energy. It is not that we improve our usual state spending with these extraordinary revenues. And yes, at this point, the law doesn't apply, that's just the truth, that's all I'm saying. I'm just saying that before the state budget for 2023, that means before the first January 2023, that taxation will be extraordinary. We are waiting for what will be binding from Europe. The way these debates are going on suits us, we have initiated them, and we will add an additional Czech solution to this. The Member likes to say what a lawyer she is, so she knows very well that we cannot tax the year 2022 even for power producers. Is it? Someone's suggesting we re-tax the year 2022. This would have to be prepared under your government, it would have to be effective from January 1, 2022. Yes, we ruled 14 days in 2021 from 17 to 31 December. Everyone will admit that tax laws in 14 days cannot be discussed in two chambers. So if it's a criticism, of course it's heading towards the government of Andrej Babiš, I don't think so. As far as the taxation of producers is concerned, leave the solution to us. It's not gonna be the 600 billion you guys wanted to put on the ceiling, that it's the profits of the energy producers we're gonna leave them with. Yes, we're going to take everything above their cost plus a reasonable profit, and we're going to involve all this money in compensation to citizens and companies. And it's the right principle!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u21	Now another factual one. Yes, are you still interested? I thought you deleted it. So, please, another factual point by Mrs Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, Minister, again, let me get this straight. We have the revenue side of the budget and the expenditure side. On expenses, I'm glad you know it, I'm really happy about it, the expense side, you just have to put it there. This is where you passed the law. We voted for him, too, even though our amendment laws didn't go through, so that it would fall apart. [[Proposals]] You still haven't taken the government's orders. We're waiting for the government's order, but it's already a mandatorial expense. You were talking about a hundred and thirty, you've got it in your explanatory note to the law on three lines, which I've criticized here. It's a hundred now, it's true how you juggle it, but you have to put it there. That means your opinion that it's income against expenses is nonsense. Whereas you must not put it on the revenue side under budgetary rules, because there is no legislation. And if I forgive you and go to some kind of mouth, government approved, first reading, you have nothing. You've got nothing. So on the revenue side, you miss it. You put it there just to get a PR deficit of 295 billion. But it's plus 150. And the ceiling. We talked about him for the first time in February of this year. On August 29th of this year, your Prime Minister said it was populism, that it was out of the question, and that you would not be doing it to beat each other in the breasts at the press conference next week, as you do. So please don't say that the government of Andrej Babiš, who hasn't even dealt with the energy crisis, should approve it. And Mr. Jurečka. You know, that year 2020, you're saying he wasn't turbulent. Well, he was. The economic downturn was minus 5.5 percent of GDP. You're not in a slump yet. It's slowing down, but the economy's still growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u23	Minister Stanjura with a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u24	We don't fight in breasts, unlike others at any press conference. It's just to the edge. I was talking about taxes, I wasn't talking about ceiling. If you're saying that they're supposed to tax manufacturers, then I'm saying that it's just not possible from a constitutionally legal point of view. And in order to do that, to tax the year 2022, the law would have to be valid from a constitutionally legal point of view on 1 January 2022, and we ruled 14 days that year. So don't mix pears and apples, don't mix cropping that by taxing or draining money at cost of production plus a reasonable profit - by source. And we will take that step. It'll be from the source, it won't be across the board. What we negotiate in Europe. There is one boundary at this point, with the fact that Member States can reduce it by source. This is exactly what suits the Czech Republic. Government regulations will be adopted on Wednesday next week. It is logical, we had to wait not only for approval in the House, in the Senate, then for the signature of the President, publication in the Collection of Laws, so we proceed exactly according to the timetable. Let me just remind you that a few weeks and months ago, you were haunting the public here, that there would be a gas shortage, and we would be shutting down the industry. We figured that out. Once we have enough gas, we're dealing with the prices right now. Seems like the right procedure to me. Because if I don't have secured supplies - thanks to your government, one-sided orientation on Russia, you don't like to talk about it, that's what it was. Look at your speeches several weeks and months ago, haunting the entire public that there will be no gas in winter and that we will shut down the industry. There is no danger of any of this because of the government's actions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u25	We are now going back to the debate where Vice-President Havlíček is registered with priority rights. And Mr. Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u26	Madam Members, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Government, I will start more at peace, by bringing what I said last time to the right. When we criticize, we also need to be able to take criticism of us and apologize for saying something wrong. [[9.50 hours]] I said here last time that renewable energy sources, which were planned for CZK 26 billion, and you may remember, fell to CZK 19 billion in February, then returned to almost CZK 26 billion, and the truth was that Stanjura third of them actually followed us, two thirds behind the new government in the sense of truth. This means, in simple terms, I did not realize that there were 4.5 billion already in the new support for renewable sources. So it's like Minister Stanjura said. I was wrong. But what matters now is what we are discussing in the framework of 2022, or in the transition to 2023. Personally, I do not blame this government for the deficit, which may eventually be there and may be similar to what we had in 2022 and 2023. I blame you for laughing at us, criticizing us for having to deal with deficits at a critical time, a very serious time. I remember you saying that 80 billion crowns is no problem. In a few hours, you solve, cross off, and so on. And you see how difficult it is. You see, when you're in a critical situation, and ours hasn't been any easier, it's complicated to put together. So remember how you criticized us, and let us also have our opinion on this. In fact, I am not surprised that you are unable to put the budget together, because the energy crisis and the measures that you are implementing, which is being implemented by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in particular, are beyond recognition. I understand that this is a very difficult budget to put together. Let us just look at this from the perspective of three key energy measures. Energy-saving tariff. Well, I don't know if they're still paying or not. It was the flagship of this government. For weeks, if not months, we've been saying that the energy-saving tariff is already behind the zenith. However, at the end of August it was famously approved, which results from the fact that I am still based on the fact that it applies both to 2022, and to 2023. In the meantime, we have heard that the energy-saving tariff may no longer be valid in 2023. The question is - is it still valid in 2022, or not? So what's the energy-saving tariff going to be? Because the government approved in the end, I'm going to round it up now, average household support of around CZK 4,000. Meanwhile, there was a press conference by the Minister of Industry that said it would be CZK 10,000 per household. That didn't go into the government's order after all. But the question mark is whether it's going to be the entire 15,000, which was for the whole period, for the heating season, or if it's going to be the STAN proposal, that's the 10,000 or the last approved draft of the government, that's CZK 4,000, or if it doesn't cancel the whole thing. Well, that's one thing. The second thing is a splash. I note that we have a total confusion here about whether the ceiling that we disagree with is going to come back to it at 80 per cent compared to last year, or if it's going to be 100 per cent, or if it's going to be 80 per cent only for small and medium-sized companies, which is also in play. It's different every day. No one can know about that anymore. Now, you realize that those involved in this are to be orientated, that is, ordinary households or small and medium-sized companies. And then we have a temporary framework, so that's a solution for larger companies or for those who have more consumption, and that's also a mess. Once again, I note that it is being introduced rather late, that the Minister of Industry has been working on this ever since 1 April, that we are in a situation where we still have nothing. But in the end, we took the view that if it can no longer be dealt with through the ceiling and the worse way, which is through the temporary framework, which will not solve prices for customers, for larger customers, but with some rather complicated key, they will calculate a certain level of support, better something than nothing, so we don't see it here in the budget. So let's figure out whether it's going to be in the budget of 2023, or if it's going to be in 2022. That is what our amendment was going to do. Because I didn't see anything there, so at least we put the 5 billion crowns there, because we saw that there is no support to at least something that could be given to those entrepreneurs this year. If we can make it clear that this year is going to be different, then it's about something else. It has fallen, Minister of Finance, that it is waiting for the European Union. I understand that waiting for the European Union. I understand that without the mandate, or without the final lines, it is difficult to do. But I would not be so optimistic, because the European Union, as we know, has set that limit to EUR 180, which would be practically nothing for us at the moment. First of all, it is not a ceiling, but it is therefore from EUR 180 additionally taxed, with the fact that the EUR 180 would logically, for example for ČEZ, which would sell for EUR 100, there would be virtually no fame for the state. That means we couldn't tax it. But if there's a condition or a possibility to set it by source, that means that maybe we could set the nucleus down there, I can imagine it there, I think that would be reasonable. Among other things, this is also the problem that the Slovák have solved if we have registered it in the last few hours when the Minister of Finance, who claims that this should be done in a different way until the way it is planned in the European Union, and do it in a more solidarity way. Otherwise, for example, Slovakia will not be affected if it is strictly on the 180 euros. Some other countries have fallen. Slovakia. Well, don't blame us, Minister, for arguing with Slovakia. Slovakia made it clear in February that, on the basis of the memorandum, it would set the limit at the level of EUR 61, approximately CZK 1,500. We knew it was from 1. In the 1st year 2023, which we did not hide anywhere, but if the Slovak Government signs us a memorandum with Slovak power plants and it is a memorandum that is noncommittal, but it is a clear signal for residents, so logically we came from it. If there comes another minister who lets himself be influenced or uargumented by energy companies and eventually does it differently, that's his problem. But we're based on the fact that there's a signed memorandum here. The question at all is how the Slovák will deal with this. But we can look at other countries. I admit that it is not easy to compare individual countries, they are in different environments. But the whole logic is somewhere else. We are an energy producer in terms of electricity, in such a way that we have more electricity than we use. We can produce it cheaply, especially thanks to the core, in principle even under reasonable conditions from renewable sources, and it is more difficult for coal, but for coal it is through emission allowances. Even so, our energy mix allows us to produce relatively cheap electricity. It is hard to explain to our households and our companies that we export it, which is not bad for anything, but that countries that even buy it from us can provide cheaper energy prices for their residents for their companies. When we look, a completely paradoxical situation occurs in Austria. We export our electricity to Austria, among other things, we export electricity from Dukovan and Temelín, although Austria opposes the continuation of core building, but the finale is that Austria has managed to secure approximately half the price of electricity at current prices. Yes, it's true they didn't put gas on it, unlike us. But electricity will be cheaper. And I am not even talking about the fact that in Austria they have a two-and-a-half-fold higher average wage. But I don't want to just criticize. Let us consider one proposal, Minister. In this mess, not only is it impossible to confess, but I also acknowledge that it falls quite fundamentally into the budget, complexly orienting itself. Let's do it in a slightly different way. Let's go with the support that has already been approved here, and that is through the energy-saving tariff and through renewable energy sources, which is more than CZK 60 billion, I take it for 2022 and for 2023, let's completely cancel it. Yes, let's cancel the energy-saving tariff, which is already behind the zenith, you will save a few resources in the budget. Let us consider revoking the remission of payments for renewable resources, although I recognise that we ourselves proposed this, but it was at some time, it was at the time of spring, at the time of summer, those renewable resources will be forgiven only from October and it will be, if I am not mistaken, another CZK 20 to 25 billion. Let's save 60 billion crowns and do what we can to lower the limit to the ceiling of electricity. As set today, which is CZK 6,000 including VAT or CZK 5,000 without VAT, which will mean CZK 7 to CZK 9,000 in the finals for a megawatt hour, it is incredibly high. Those households can't stand it anyway. Those companies are gonna have a problem with that. We're talking about small and medium-sized companies because I'm starting to think it's gonna apply to them. Let's cut this down, and let's sacrifice this money that was meant for the renewables, and from my point of view, a completely pointless energy-saving tariff. That's all we're gonna spend money on. Those households won't feel the same way, and in the finals, it won't have the effect that we're assuming, whereas if we just scaled it down to, let's say, 3,000 kroner, it would have the effect. [[10.00 hours]] It is not true, Minister, that we are unable to finance this in the finals. One source is the one I just said, and the other is that our 1,500 crowns are still misinterpreted. We said, let's make a ceiling of CZK 1,500 as a price regulation for producers, let's talk about it from when, I understand, that CZK 1,500 per producer would guarantee them sufficient profitability. And it's the changeling that we gave that can be done at a time of extreme energy situation in the gas, electricity market. It's been discussed with the Energy Regulatory Authority. And just as there's a material regulation of heat prices, we'd be able to adjust this to the output. At the same time, let's put a damper on those traders so that there is no chance to increase it, the profitability, for example, what they are worried about in Slovakia today, over the CZK 3,000, and in the finals, I believe that we could play this game - it's not about hundreds of billions of crowns, I'm not talking about gas, I'm still talking about electricity - by putting a stop to the output of manufacturers and, at the same time, traders at the cost of CZK 3,000. So this is our proposal, which I think is worth discussing at least. As far as dependence on Russia is concerned, it is perhaps not worth commenting on. You still haven't understood the elementary gas infrastructure in Europe. The dependence on Russia was created by Germany. Germany created it by investing, or by approving Nord Stream 1 and later by Nord Stream 2. And Germany created a dependence on gas, among other things, because it went to chimeric green targets, that they shut down the core, that they shut down the gas -- sorry that they shut down the coal and that they bet on the gas. By betting on gas, and also on Russian gas, a total dependence of Central and Eastern Europe on Russian gas was created. Because simply, the pipe leads to us from Germany. And please also study how when gas is purchased and contracts are made with Norwegians at terminals or with anyone else, how the gas mixes in the pipes it comes from. Even though we had a contract with Norway, Russian gas always came to us. Not because someone's calling it in here and they want it, but because they're simply mixed in German pipes. You need to be repaired by experts, independent Demagog servers must dement your statement and make it easy for you to be ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u27	He will now speak with the mandate of the SPD, as a representative of the club, Mr Hrnčíř, with an opinion. The following is Vice-President Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment to the budget, massive government debt continues. It is very clear that the government has resigned for savings. Minister of Finance Stanjura is constantly abusing the war in Ukraine and the mismanagement of previous governments, or Putin and Babiš are responsible for everything. Certainly, the effects of war on the budget, especially the rise in energy prices, are reflected in the state's spending, as well as the wasteful policy of the previous government. However, looking at the structure of the state budget without a war, it would be in huge trouble. In the long term, it is disproportionately burdened with mandatory, i.e. compulsory, expenses. Even in 1995, these expenditures accounted for 45 percent of the state budget, increased to 58 percent in 2015. The amount of mandatorial expenditure, i.e. expenditure which is practically the nature of compulsory expenditure, which includes, for example, civil servants' wages, has contributed to the state budget by about 20 per cent. In total, both types of expenditure account for around 80 per cent of budget expenditure. The dangerous trend is also that mandatory spending has been growing faster in the long run than state budget revenues. The budget for 2022 thus accounts for 84 %, which, with real revenue from the budget and without additional government bond money, is not long-term financing. In 2021, the State's compulsory expenditure absorbed almost 94 percent of the State's revenue. If the state wanted to maintain a balanced budget, it would have no more than 100 billion left for the remaining expenditure, which cannot be managed without loans. More than the amount of government debt, the problem is the rate of increase. This means that in 2025 we will pay up to CZK 100 billion annually on interest on government debt. Why doesn't the government want to reform the rigid state, and through digitalization, it doesn't slim down the state apparatus, as it promised? But before the elections, they promised to reduce the public deficit and balanced state budgets. They were lying again. From this point of view, therefore, the amendment does not solve anything and merely maintains the state budget for a suicide trajectory that is going unstoppably towards state bankruptcy. The state budget so designed is unfinanceable because the planned expenditure of the State is so high that the State is unable to secure sufficient revenue for it. So it's another line of government cynical and conscious lies. The Czech Republic is now a state whose public debt is growing fastest from all the Member States of the European Union. The SPD movement has already repeatedly submitted its programming proposals in the area of state budget parameters. These include a severe reduction in the State's necessary expenditure in the area of public bureaucracy, a reduction in payments to the European Union budget, a reduction in expenditure on overpriced military contracts from abroad, or a severe reduction in the payment of social benefits inadequate. On the income side, the SPD proposes, for example, taxation of multinational Internet giants who generate huge profits in the Czech Republic, but without taxation in the Czech Republic or taxation of dividends issued by foreign corporations from the Czech Republic. That is why we cannot support this amendment as a SPD club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u29	Therefore, the absent Vice-President is now moving forward with his priority right, but he is here with the priority right of Mr Stanjura, registered. So, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. I thought it would take me about two minutes to do what Vice-President Karel Havlíček said. Let's get to the renewables payment first. I think it's simple that there is actually a difference between the market price and the cost price if I simplify it. The market price is off the chain. So logically, the need goes down without zeroing the payment, so logically it would be lower than in those years when the need was about 45 billion a year. Thanks to what happened in the energy market, these resources are very often profitable and there is no need to pay for renewables. And now to explain the cost-effective tariff. If we had left the savings tariff for 2023 in those parameters as we accepted and didn't put a cap on it, that would have been the 15,000 for the household for that period of the twelve months, that's certainly true. So the decision is for 2022, that's the four months from September 1st. At the same time, and I do not blame anyone, Mr Havlíček simply knows, under the media shortcut, there were four measures. Zeroing, payments for renewables, is true both in 2022, and in 2023. That means there's nothing behind the POZE in the price ceiling. So that's the deal. Then the help of the heating industry, which means central heating heat, is valid for the year 2022. The same is true of the home boiler rooms for 2022, and the same applies to the savings tariff for 2022 itself. The very cost-saving tariff in 2023 will be replaced by the price ceiling, because the savings for households are higher than the cost-saving tariff under consideration. That's the explanation. It's not like you said, it's different every day. That's the reaction to what's happening in the world's markets. In August, no one in Europe could imagine that this would be, in the short term, the price of EUR 1,000 per megawatt hour. There was no one like that. At the moment it happened, we initiated as the Czech Republic a solution at European level, which we are promising will reduce spot prices. And I think that is what we are going to do, but we know from the beginning that this European reduction in spot prices will not be enough for the Czech Republic, even though it will reduce it, so that is why we have taken the fall. And now the debate, whether it's the manufacturers or somewhere else. So, what's the effect? I think we agree on that. The effect should be the final account with the customer, whether corporate or household. At the moment when you're only gonna put it at the first degree in that chain, yes, you can cut the profits there, but it wouldn't be as much as you say it would be. But we're going to do that by saying cost plus by type of source, and I think we can really agree that that's logical. That means we're not gonna throw these companies into some kind of loss or danger of bankruptcy, so the profits are gonna be lower. But then we have distributors, businessmen, and then he's an end customer. That's why there's gonna be distributors and traders in that windfall so it doesn't escape, so the unexpected profits aren't elsewhere in the chain. [[10.10 hours]] So we're assuming for those manufacturers that there's going to be that - that's not a ceiling, that's what you said right, even though many journalists have written that prices will be ceilinged, that's actually the threshold for taxation. And we are trying in Europe because it would be ideal in Europe to make it compulsory or at least voluntary, and we are on the right track so that the Member States can voluntarily reduce it accordingly. That means, it's not just gonna be a ceiling price, we're gonna leave the producers with anything, and then the compensation would be huge, but at the same time we're preparing steps so that the disproportionate profits aren't made by distributors or traders. And the difference between that is what's proposed in that budget as compensation. In an ideal world, if nothing was sold for 2023, the effects on compensation would be much lower for the state budget. That is why I said that I assume that, within three financial years, this should be budgetaryly neutral. Because 2025 seems much more advantageous at this point in terms of possible compensation than 2023 because about three quarters of the production was sold by the end of the summer and some 25 percent of the unsold production remains there. I think we understand each other and that it's the only possible procedure. Yes, we can have a political debate on a specific parameter, whether the ceiling at this source should be EUR 80, EUR 90, at another source EUR 120, at another source EUR 180. We know that, from a European point of view, three croppings will be removed - setting the tax threshold to be precise. It seems that Europe will come as an agreement by the Member States that three resources will be removed from this tax ceiling. Logically gas, here is our national interest in separating the price of gas from the price of electricity. The second source, which will not be subject to the ceiling, is black coal, which is also beneficial for the Czech Republic, let us say, but it is much more necessary for our northern neighbours for Poland, for example. [[unintelligible]] And then the water plants will be removed. If I take gas, coal, water, from the point of view of the energy mix, it doesn't represent anything relevant from our energy mix. Plus the magic from the numbers and what marketing is. So, of course, I admit that the second option is, but I think it's less transparent and less transparent and less fair: I'm not going to plug in the revenue, I'm going to increase the deficit, and then in six months, I'm going to say, look how well I manage, the deficit is less than the 100 billion we've planned. Because that's the effect. We're just gonna get that 100 billion out of it. And I am convinced that the law will apply by the end of the year, and I am even convinced that we will find more support for it in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate than just support for the representatives of the government parties. So I find it fairer and fairer to involve it on the revenue side. I don't underestimate the risks or conceal them. We could have gone the other way, we could have actually written there and approved budget 395, then approved this year's windfall tax plus one, they call it solidarity contribution, that is, from the tax ceiling extra from every megawatt hour produced. But efficiency must not be effective until 1 January unless it is adopted at European level by retroactivity. It is one of the proposals, we are not the only ones who say that it is extremely problematic from the point of view of constitutional order in a Member State, and at this point for several days or several weeks, our teams have been analyzing our lawyers if it were in the regulation, as is in line with our constitutional order. This is simply not a trivial matter and it is not actually a political decision, because the regulation is actually directly applicable in the Member States. So I don't think we have to argue about it. The dispute is whether we should admit it, the revenue or not. And the only thing you really can't blame me for not admitting revenue to the state budget. We admitted them in our budget, waited until June for the cashier's delivery and admitted revenue to the 2022 amendment. If we were based only on the macroeconomic forecasts available at the time, the revenues are lower, and I could then say at the end of the year that the deficit is lower than planned, because the revenues were higher than they were in the state budget. That's just a fact. And it's not that everything can be planned, we're not living in a peaceful time when the budgeting process itself is different. Budget isn't a piece of paper. It's not. And I don't want to go into controversy about whether it's more budget-wise to draw big deficits and then say that their income made them much lower or vice versa. This is about who chooses the method. We have experienced one method in the last parliamentary term, we use another method as a whole as a government. I remember, it seemed so funny to me when former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš said here: "We are all - I am sorry, I quote him, I would not speak so disrespectfully of the Member - we were all against Schillerová and Schillerová always found the money. That's what he said here on the microphone without at least mentioning Mrs Schillerová or Mrs Mrs President. But that's not really how it works. There are no surpluses that the finance minister, who sits on them and doesn't want to lend anyone anything out of the state budget surplus. We're still talking about debt, the amount of deficit. We're communicating what the debt service will do about it. On the other hand, you, Vice-President Havlíček, have been extremely skeptical through Madam President and you have said there is no point in seeking a European solution, it will still be nothing. I think you were too skeptical. It will be resolved on our proposal to extend the crisis framework for next year, a difficult cash flow and margin issue will probably be resolved. Who would have thought a year ago that Uniper's value would have plummeted? Look at the value of Uniper on the stock exchange, and that's some company, even in January, what was the value and what is it today. Who would have thought that the German state would save this mammoth company at considerable financial costs because it generated high profits for years? So this is all the reaction of war to the whole European economy, not just to the Czech economy. And I find it really unfair to keep comparing those other Member States. When I was talking to my fellow finance ministers, the headline "Our government does little, other governments give more" is in different variations in all Member States. And you will always find concrete measures in a specific area in which one Member State, for example the Czech Republic, has done something other than another State. Here I have heard very often about how it is beneficial to reduce VAT or to ceiling some prices. So let's look at inflation. I say, I don't want to point my finger at other people, but apparently the reduction in VAT doesn't lead to lower inflation. Let us look at Eurostat's results for last month and the latest results, look at the countries that followed the VAT reduction path, and compare inflation for them and in the Czech Republic, where we did not go this way. And the costs of reducing VAT are huge and do not lead to lower inflation. And this is not the political position of the Czech government or the Czech government parties, these are Eurostat data. I will not say that we are satisfied with the level of inflation, certainly not, but, of course, that, apart from the revenue you like to talk about, increases expenditure, too. I said that last time, if, thanks to higher inflation revenues - and I call them inflation revenues - the deficit of the state budget was reduced, it would be true that the political claim that the government is collecting higher tax revenues and not giving it back to citizens would be true. The opposite is true. Even though tax revenues are higher, and they are and are honestly admitted, spending is increasing. Logically, I don't think it's a mistake. If you look, there's already been a debate today on the budget of 2023, even though she'll be here in a few weeks at first reading, and you'll look at social aid spending, so against the budget of 2022, it's about 140 billion extra social spending, and against the amendment that we'll be approving in a few days, it's over 100 billion extra. And that's already the increase in social spending in the novel, thanks to the effects of high energy prices and high inflation, taken into account. It's just not true that the money stays somewhere and doesn't go back to the citizens. They're heading in the right direction. That is why we do not have the deficit as much lower as I would have liked in January this year. And they're not... [[10.20 hours]] It is always so simple to say, if we have increased housing standards especially for single and double households, it has budgetary implications. Is that the right decision? It's the right decision. And we are aware of the budgetary implications. If we have regularly or repeatedly increased the living and existential minimum, it has an impact on six social benefits and therefore higher social spending. The question is - is that the right decision? It's the right decision. Yes, and this is how we can discuss one difference after another, and the decisions that we make very often here in the Chamber of Deputies, in the Senate, very often with the support of the opposition's votes, and I thank them, so they lead to a deepening of the deficit. But the question is, do we or do we have to take these steps at this time? And the answer is - we do and we have to do them at this time. That's it. If you think we don't have them and we don't have to do them, I understand that you're going to vote against these actions, or that you're going to propose those structural changes at this time, okay? I say one thing that politically is impenetrable - and we can admit that - is some big structural change, one or two that would save 100, 120 billion structural deficits in order. It's not hard to write. It's all actually written on our financials. It's hard to get this place through. And let us be frank about what the debate in the Chamber of Deputies would look like. We call it structural deficit changes - so let's say, what does that mean in Czech? Reductions in the expenditure of the dictators, which our citizens are receiving in particular these days. No other expenditure does this structural deficit than social, health, education expenditure. That's mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenses. And if we come up with something like 100 billion in order here, well, I... You say you have the clerks. Well, we do. I honestly say it's not difficult to write, it's difficult to enforce. You had those officers for eight years. The same in the vast majority. You had the same officials at your disposal. How many of these structural changes in the years when the economy was growing before the covid, let's not just talk about covido years, that means between 2014 and 2019, how many structural changes in the government in which you were involved, first as the second largest and then as the largest entity of the government coalition, did you propose and enforce? Yes, we can go back to that, I'm not saying today, and we can compare it. And I say, and it wasn't extraordinary spending, it wasn't the pandemic covid, it wasn't the war in Ukraine, it wasn't the energy prices torn off, and economic growth was very good. So if we want to lead, and I'm in favour of a substantive and rational debate, let's talk about it. Let's see if we can find a common ground, for example, in adjusting the parameters of the pension system. I think reform is too... This word pension reform raises too much expectations on the one hand and too much concern, on the other. If you look at this rationally politically, you only have a few parameters on which it will be if there is a political consensus that will have a positive impact on the balance of the pension system in the medium and long term. And of course, we're after our experience with the second pillar of a wider consensus than merely - in quotation marks only, it's not little - it's just a consensus on government parties, because these systems can't afford to change with every change in government. If the effects are to occur in eight, ten years, so before there is any positive effect, it will change again. And now I don't want to judge which direction and which recipe is better. So our ambition is to find a match in this important area. The truth is, and I think you understand that there hasn't been enough room in recent weeks and months to have a big debate about changing the pension system. We're dealing with completely different things that no one could have expected in January. And I think, as the Czech Republic, we can do it with honor. I say like the Czech Republic, I don't say like the government. I can see the difference. And in the flood of bad news, because we're living in a flood of bad news, then in the fact that many enjoy black scripts, and now I'm not just talking about politicians, but also about various analysts, so look at April, May's forecasts for these analysts, what will be the price of oil - 150, 180 euros, what will be the price of petrol - 60 crowns, 65 crowns. Fortunately, that is not the case. And the same analysts today have new estimates, new black scripts, and they don't go back to it, and they don't explain what happened that their black scripts didn't come true. And that's good. So three good news from September, which wasn't published by the government: Firstly, a European comparison. In the Czech Republic, the least people at risk of poverty live within the Member States of the European Union. That doesn't mean we're supposed to be happy with the number so I don't get misunderstood. This doesn't mean that the number is so small that you wouldn't be interested, but in our country it's about 11 percent, the average is 20 and the highest is about 25 percent. Second good news - how the Czech Republic and employers handle it. [[unintelligible]] We have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. That's good news in the flood of bad news. Yes, it is likely to grow, we cannot fall asleep on laurels, but the months and years of the previous government and our government have listened or received demands from the employment unions to arrange for the arrival of hundreds of thousands of new workers from other countries. Hundreds of thousands. Even in such a difficult time as today, when you look at the latest published figures, there are more vacancies than the number of unemployed. Again, let us not underestimate the risk that this trend may turn and that unemployment may grow, but it will not grow to catastrophic proportions. Yes, the black scripts aren't going to grow. And the third good news that fell a bit in the public debate, now I don't think it was published by the Czech National Bank, I don't know exactly, or if the Czech Banking Association, I'm sorry, in September, that means August, was the smallest number of outstanding loans and loans in the history of the Czech Republic. These are all good news, without underestimating and mitigating the seriousness of the situation in which the Czech Republic is at the moment. To help big companies. Anyone who knows anything about this must say that it is the hardest to come up with in order to comply with European rules on the one hand, but also with Czech laws, in order to resolve the issue of unauthorized support or abuse of dominant position on the market. Those aren't trivial questions. I heard here in the debate when we voted on the government's mistrust that we were the last people who didn't use the temporary crisis framework. I'm not saying that from Vice-President Havlíček, but it fell there. And in public debate, it fell. Well, we had a... The information is about a week old, and the time is dynamic, so maybe it's not valid, so only two countries have applied the possibilities of the crisis framework across the board. And it is no coincidence that they are the richest countries - Germany and France. Then there were about three or four countries that applied them to a region in their own country, such as Italy or Estonia. And the vast majority of the aid was in the form of guarantees. It's a záruk order. Those programs are running with us, too. [[A note from the diaper.]] It wasn't. It wasn't, I can read it to you, or I can put you at your disposal, a really good assessment of standing by the state, I say, it's about a week old, and even the other governments respond and the other parliaments respond, so maybe in the meantime some law has already been adopted that changes or changes the aid, some parameter. A small example of public debate in the Czech Republic. When we reduced the excise duty to diesel and gasoline together, yes, it was a crown of fifty, the European limit. Germany took the same step at the time, and because they had the excise duty higher than we did, they reduced it by eight crowns in conversion, but at the same limit as us. Three months, four months with us. And we faced in that public debate why we didn't do it like the Němec did, that the Němec had discounted eight crowns, and we only had a crown of fifty, I don't count VAT. But on September 1st the measure ended in Germany, the prices returned logically by the eight crowns up, and I did not read in the public debate, after those three months it is again eight crowns higher, and therefore logically the price of fuel is higher. So I'm very well-equipped and restrained to highlight one government or another here, and I really don't think it's appropriate. It is good to have this international comparison, it is good to learn from a successful or even unsuccessful journey, because some measures have proved ineffective. There's no reason for me to say this from the microphone - this government didn't do it. It's more of a lesson to us when we have the results after a few months, and say - that's not the way. Or say the other way around - this measure works elsewhere, so why wouldn't we use it in the Czech Republic? [[10.30 hours]] As far as energy prices are concerned, it is actually a sad truth that no Member State of the European Union has found a solution that could be applied in other Member States. It's the simple recipes, the simple headlines - first, in a more detailed examination, it turns out that it always has a lot of limitations, but that's logical, that's really logical, and it turns out that some of them just don't have the intended effect. And there's a difference if you're an island state, there's definitely a difference in energy, or if we're talking about states that are on the Iberian Peninsula, which are de facto disconnected from the energy system, de facto, then it's really hard, the debate. We, even if it doesn't look like it, we don't have a press conference after every meeting with the business forces to say... I think we're in regular contact. And even to colleagues who represent entrepreneurs in these unions, we say, so also talk to your colleagues abroad, who step by step helped them, which did not help them. And then when you do it, there's a simple sentence that's not popular at all: you can't compensate for everything. This simply cannot be done because it is only at the expense of debt and as huge deficits and others that we have seen in recent years. It's not easy to say. It was much easier to say yes, we have a solution that is budget-tolerable and that will help businesses at the same time. And one final point. Very often in that public space, and I'm talking about public space, not just the Chamber of Deputies, I'm hearing why in the measures that the government has, why don't you have any ceilings there to motivate you to save money? A sentence of no doubt, which each of us will sign. And then it comes back, but... How fair is it to those households, for example, who have already invested in reducing consumption for considerable money in recent years, to say that perhaps we can help you with 80 percent of your consumption and not 100? They no longer have space to cut by 20, unlike others who, for various reasons, and I do not criticize them, have not yet taken the measures. That's where the space still exists. But the same is true in industry. The same is true in industry without criticizing anyone. There are simply companies that have invested for considerable money in reducing the energy intensity of their production. There are companies that have changed the resources they've been trying to get their investment back. But again, if we don't take this into account in our collective decision-making, either at the level of the government or the House, it's actually unwanted, because I don't think anyone wants it, we will accidentally punish those who have already invested in energy savings in past years. With this rather long speech, I wanted to return the debate to a rational debate. To say that it is not easy, that there is no successful recipe, which we would only rewrite into Czech conditions, and we were resolved. And at the same time, I'm saying for all the estimates for next year, we're working with a huge number of unsubs. When you compare the macroeconomic forecasts of renowned institutions from spring and summer, the first package comes in March, April, the second in July, August and September, you see dramatic changes not only in inflation estimates, but also dramatic changes in the growth or decline of European economies. And these are all uncertainties that, of course, have an impact on the state budget, because you're building it at some point, you're building it at the moment when you have the information that's available at the time, you're based on some trends, but the situation is actually turbulent and it can change. So let's just see how our own institutions estimated inflation and economic developments this year and next year. And now I don't just mean the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, but also renowned private private institutions that deal with this for a long time. And these changes are just big, and they're much higher than they were in the past few years. But I don't blame them. There are so many unsubs that no one can put their professional head on the block that it won't change. When we were dealing with a number of experts about the cropping, and I asked who was capable of professionally, professionally, and risking his professional position, I don't mean politically, I mean professionally, he's able to tell us how he estimates energy prices in the first, second, third quarter of next year, so no one has. Logically. I don't blame them. So at the same time, with so much uncertainty, to blame the government that, whether in the budget 2022, in the amendment to budget 2022, or in the draft budget 2023, there are uncertainties and risks, I don't think it's entirely correct because we say there are uncertainties, there are risks. I never thought for a second that there were risks and there were no uncertainties. They are. But our common task is firstly, as I say, to prevent black scenarios, so I used the example of gas. And I think the Czech Republic did it well thanks to the work of many and many people, that we have enough gas. The second thing is to find a rational solution. That it doesn't help everyone, everyone, in any individual case, that's just true. You always find a case when you give some income to your family, collect all kinds of social assistance, and it's on the edge, and they can't reach it. But to come up with social aid, which - and I look at the honourable colleague of Mr Juchelka, I am now looking quite deliberately, it is not a coincidence - for it to affect everyone, it simply cannot be done. That life is more colorful. The coincidence of many circumstances may occur. We ourselves do not know what kind of coincidence may occur. And wanting all of this to be caught in the law is unrealistic expectations. But what we have to have in the law in order to have the vast majority of households... And we're talking about average consumption, average price increase, average savings. But we're aware of what the mean is made of. But we have other, additional tools to do this as a society as a whole. I firmly believe we can do this. We're not expecting light months, we've never said that, but we have better assumptions than we had in April. At least in terms of energy supply. And we have to say, when we talk about the deficits, that, again, very often together, we are reducing the revenue of the state budget, or we are reducing the tax burden of the state budget. I will list a few things for which the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate actually voted: a reduction in excise duty, an extension of the reduction in excise duty until next year. Only these two measures supported by the opposition, and again thank you for that, 13 billion crowns we have removed the tax burden from taxpayers. Cancellation of a substantial part of the road tax, 4 billion we reduced the burden. Support for employers who apply part-time jobs will start to pay. Is this a good measure? It is. Did almost the entire House vote across? Yes. Will it have an impact on the state budget, on his income? It will be. In the order of the billions. We have a vote to raise the VAT limit from 1 to 2 million. I haven't recorded a vote so far that we don't do it in the Chamber of Deputies, so I assume we'll approve it across the political spectrum. Does this have an impact on the revenue of the state budget? He does. 12 billion - more. All of this is in favour of taxpayers, but in favour of the state budget deficit. I could continue, where I think, with the support of the opposition, we are relieved and we are reducing the burden. We have a vote in front of us to extend the emergency measure on extraordinarily increased depreciation. Is this a good measure? I think it is. I think the vote will show that it has support across the political spectrum. Does this have an impact of around 10 billion revenue on the state budget? He does. Once again, we will let these 10 billion taxpayers handle these difficult months and years, but on the other hand, this increases the state budget deficit. This means that when we talk about structural debt, I consider the problem serious and, unlike President Schillerová, I do not question the comments of the National Budget Board and take them seriously. And we were like we wanted to have this institute. [[unintelligible]] An independent, economically funded institution that will call the House, but also Parliament: we see it this way, we see these risks. The second thing is a political decision. But we will not silence the voice of those who draw attention to a high structural deficit. [[10.40 hours]] And I have said here several times that at this point we are balancing three approaches: social reconciliation, social spending plus 140 billion in the next year against 2022. The second pillar and the second thing we are considering are investments that will still be higher, and the fund's budget is record-breaking. I don't think anyone would criticize it. And the third thing that, of course, has to do with the first two is the deficit. I'm not happy about what the deficits are. But we can't, and I'm pretty sure we can't suppress the first two pillars. This means not reflecting high inflation, high energy prices in the social field or reducing the state's investment activity at the expense of reducing the deficit. We tried our best. We can be criticized for this, and I think that from that point on, the debate is in the Chamber of Deputies to criticize ourselves or to make counter-proposals or other recipes. But if we balance all these three basic approaches, I believe that these budgets couldn't have gone better. Often in public space, the emphasis is placed on increasing tax revenues, or to increasing taxes. I'm not going to talk about an extraordinary tax, we're going to get to that, but it's extremely time-limited, and it's supposed to be used for extraordinary expenses, not the usual state spending, including the usual investments. So I did not notice that anyone in the Chamber of Deputies, any club proposed any substantial tax increase, and thus a substantial increase in income. And only the few measures that I have listed, which had the support of all the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, are reducing the state's revenue. I believe we did it consciously. That we knew when we voted what it meant. As Minister of Finance, I knew it would reduce tax revenue. I have one more example. Five thousand per child to families with less income than the one million gross they had last year. I think everyone voted in favour of this, and there were even proposals not to do it for one month, but for a few months. Does it have an impact on expenses? Well, he does. Does that increase the deficit? Raises. As we cannot say at the same time "give 5,000 six times," which is six times 8 billion, vote for "give it once," which is 8 billion spending, while saying "you are not reducing the deficit." After all, we knew that the measure would increase the deficit when we voted on it. But we saw it as the right measure in the vast majority of us, and that is why we supported him. So I just want to say in this debate that we realize that we're making decisions on the revenue side of the budget. It is perhaps a paradox, which goes through the Chamber of Deputies more smoothly than any restrictions on expenditure. And remember how passionate, stormy she was, I don't know what he would call it, a debate when we cut the budget deficit by 80 billion this year. And again, I've heard sentences that don't relate to each other. Some claimed it was just a market trick, and there's no savings, and others said it was brutal cuts that would put something at risk. We heard a catastrophic vision here this January, in February, about the provisional budget. And again, okay, it was a black script. Did it come true? It didn't come true. It was the first time we applied the budgetary provisional following the amendment of the Budgetary Rules Act. I reminded you, at a time when, for example, Miloš Zeman was Prime Minister, the failure to approve the budget and the budgetary provisional meant that he succeeded according to an unapproved draft state budget, not according to one twelfth of last financial year. It was just a different name, but it really succeeded according to the proposal submitted by the government, and it either withdrew it or the House rejected it. And I could go on like this. I look forward to discussing the amendments. In the proposals, what I said at the beginning is true, because I do not think that everyone is in the system at this time, but they will fall by the end of the detailed debate and we will judge each one of them regardless of who made the proposal. And because of the fact that it has a different regime, it also doesn't matter whether it increases or reduces the overall deficit. And we're gonna ask ourselves a question... I asked a few rhetorical questions, and then I always answered. We will ask ourselves a question on every amendment: Should we do this? Do we have to do this? Are we aware that this will increase the state budget deficit? If we answer yes three times, we have to do it, or we even have to do it, and we are aware that this will increase the deficit of the state budget, then let us vote in favour and accept this amendment. If we answer any of these questions negatively, I think it is already problematic to accept such an amendment, I say no matter who makes it. And I propose that we have a debate, because when the Rules of Procedure are opened, if it is not appropriate for an amendment to the state budget, because it is the third year in a row when we are amending the state budget, if we should not put it under the same regime as the budget discussion. It has advantages and disadvantages, the current situation. The advantage of having Members, too, is that we all have more time for political negotiations, for example, with regard to the deficit. On the other hand, until the third reading vote takes place, we don't really know what the resulting state budget deficit will be. I think we're supposed to have this debate, we have to. And if we agree, the proposal... But I say, both the solutions today and the budget regime have the pros and cons. It's not that one solution is great and the other is completely wrong. So we only have a third experience when the budget is audited. First experience with a budget commission. And we also have our first experience with the impact of extraordinary pension valorization. It's been a long time in the law, luckily we didn't have to use it for a long time. I think it's time to go back to the moment we get into a situation where there's no chance of extraordinary pension valorisation, whether the law that was written, whether it's proven or whether it's good to have a debate about some parametric changes. Some say it's not just a percentage, it's all supposed to have a fixed sum for everyone. Some say let's split it up. Part of the fixed amount to all and part percent. I don't think there was time at this point that we had to deal with this under the existing legislation. But when we get inflation to a normal level, or the usual level, it's time to go back to it and evaluate the experience of extraordinary valuations with the impact on different groups of our pensioners and say yes, it worked, it's good, or we see certain risks, the impact wasn't what we thought it was when it was approved years ago. I think there'll be room for us to have this debate. However, I believe that the mechanism of extraordinary pension valorisation has proven itself as a whole because it has protected the most vulnerable group and these are pension recipients. And it's not just old-age pensions, but it's all the other pensions that belong to that group. So that's how we approach this, the amendment and the budget next year, so I don't think that this debate might be so politically heated, and maybe it'll lead to good results and maybe even more consensus than is supposed to be today. I know it's common for the opposition to vote against budgets. We didn't progress differently. So I don't even expect the opposition's budgets or amendments to the budget. I think that's supposed to demonstrate to voters the diversity of government and opposition parties' approach, I say, it's always been that way. But maybe we can calm down the debate a little bit, and maybe we could all scare less citizens, companies, institutions, and at least not paint the black scripts from this microphone, but do everything we can together to keep those black scenarios from happening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u31	Beautiful morning, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members. I've taken over the meeting. At this point, priority rights can also be used because no one is registered with a factual remark, so I will ask whether the Vice-President wants a factual or a preferential right. [[Vice-President Havlíček: I'll have it for about four minutes, so I'd prefer it. Thank you.]] And then, Mrs. President of the club, Mrs. Schillerová, is signed up with priority rights as well. So you have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. We did not want to torture you, Minister, or - at least I did - in some way, in the sense of the deficit, but in the sense that you built your rhetoric to a large extent, even at the time of the election, on the fact that we had chopped off such or other debts. And you can see that at a time when it's bad, it's very difficult to steer. And I'm not even of the opinion that Mr. former Finance Minister Kalousek has. He could have sat here. He's escaped from this House, and now he understands through social media. Of course, it has the right to do so as ten and a half million citizens in this republic. His voice is exactly the same as anyone else's voice, doctor, baseball, teacher, but that doesn't mean we're going to follow it somehow. He could sit here, he could fight, and he could promote his visions. So in this case, he certainly doesn't have our defenses, even if he could be paid here today, and say, "I mean, your ex-colleague criticizes you." You mentioned the comparison with the other countries. I understand it's not always easy to compare, but remember the covid time. Do you remember how you whispered us about what it looks like in Austria, what it looks like in Germany? We put together very difficult support, we argued as we could, you said: look at the 80 percent of the income of Austria and Germany. So you guys were acting exactly the same way about this. You must know very well. Yes, we compare it with other countries and show what could be done better. We also understood that they might do it better in Austria and Germany, but, among other things, we argued on the budget at the time. If it were based on what the opposition said at the time, it would be CZK 200 billion larger budget deficit if I were to take the absolute version of the German-Austrian model here. We didn't have it back then. But let's get down to business. You said here, Minister, that the effect should be measured especially by the way it touches the customer. Agreed. I would add to that - and how it touches the budget. It should be balanced, because if we want to play something at this critical time, it should be fair to divide between the state and the customers, whether we divide them into business customers and customers as individuals, consumers. Then let's rethink the model that I said here and which goes a little handsome towards you as Minister of Finance, let's cancel the energy-saving tariff completely, because we all know that it's already behind the zenith. And I don't even want to say what we said when we said the situation is evolving. So be it. Let's also cancel the renewable energy sources, even though we lobbied for them here a few months ago, we will save, plus all the other charges you said here, or let's say the support tools you said there were, for the approximately CZK 60 billion, we will save CZK 60 billion, and let's sacrifice the CZK 60 billion into an even greater reduction in that ceiling. Let's simplify the situation. Everyone understands the ceiling. It's a simple, elegant solution. I understand there are some complications, too, but everyone knows it's going to be worth 6,000 crowns, and we say, let's cut it down, we're talking about electricity, from 6,000 crowns to 3,000 crowns, and let's sacrifice the 60 billion in favour of this. And the way to do that so that the impact on the state budget is still stable, so if I don't take the 60 billion that we would put into it that we would exchange for it, so let's come out of both of the models that we put together here together, and that's the determination of prices for manufacturers, and yes, let's discuss whether it's one amount that we were saying, that's the 1,500, which, for example, for ČEZ would be quite much more feasible in terms of their cost of individual resources, but I take that to be done on individual sources, but then we could go even lower at the core, there wouldn't be 1,500, even below renewable, but I'll take that again with brown coal it would be more, because there are unfortunate emission allowances. So setting prices for manufacturers, even diversified, and, at the same time, putting a ceiling on those traders so we don't get off on that side of business again, because one thing is that it's going to be caught on that or not, that the price is going to be determined on those manufacturers, and the other is how it ends with that trader. If we give it to him at 3,000, which is half, then de facto even with the additions to the price from the producers, which would be an average - but again I'm saying, it might be different for different manufacturers - 1,500, I'll take the VAT, I'll take the price for shipping, for distribution and so on, so maybe it wouldn't be far from the 3,000, so maybe we could get to this amount from above and below. I understand one thing, because trouble like a cannon is in what's sold. That's just gone now. We can talk about it if it was done sooner, if it was sold so much, but we know fair and square that it was sold in 2021, even in 2020 for 2022, which is true, we can't blame anyone for that today, so now we have to deal with what's sold. Yes, the Slovak road is pretty crazy. This means nationalising energy supplies, or nationalizing power plants, I think it is not absolutely necessary, that is probably the craziest way to go, but it is also possible, but if it should be paid, then there is nothing left to do but take resources from ČEZ, from the Modernization Fund, and I do not know what else I can think of where to get something. But we know from this CEZ that this year, although I understand that it will be next year in terms of the dividend payout, there will certainly not be enough. In my opinion, there may be some 70 billion crowns in addition. I'm really making a rough guess right now. Last year was 23 billion, and I think that's gonna make it to the 100 billion this year. And it is likely, and it is important to say that because the ČEZ sold it for the next year for 100 euros and it is sold, nothing will be done about it, so the ČEZ will again have this big profit next year. That means it can be taken from the year 2022, and from 2023, and it's just about time, so we don't wait until it's withdrawn from the dividend. I can't say how to download it faster, maybe through undivided profit or borrow it somewhere and then put it out of it, but that's more of a technical discussion in my opinion. I'm just saying where the source might be. And the second thing is the source in the Modernization Fund. If we were to have 485 billion crowns there, which is significantly more than we expected, although I understand, until sometime by 2027, there is definitely something there to take. What you said about the European Union, about the measures. I'm still skeptical. But I don't blame Minister Síkel that much here. I would have blamed him for everything he had done so far, but the fact that he was driving some vision of the European Union, which was not bad at all, and that they did it in a different way, in my opinion, is something that could be expected. I rather blamed him for going there with high expectations, and I would almost say with a certain degree of naivety, because it was really unrealistic to separate the price of electricity from the gas, and that Europe did not take this under German diction. That was the crucial thing to do. That the temporary framework had been extended, yes, but that was more or less to be expected, but I don't want to play it down now, so that I wouldn't take the small successes he had there again, but I don't think that was something that was quite extraordinary, it was almost certain that he would succeed. And the last thing I have here, it's not for that year 2022, but I've seen the Minister of Transport here, too, about the investments you said. I'm still not able to deal with the SFDI you did. I'm taking the 151 billion SFDI gave, actually, Minister, maybe it didn't have to be that much, the 151. [[The Minister is responding off the microphone from his location.]] I know. Like this. I'd say it right. It's a good thing there's 151 billion. It's good for investment, for spending, and so on. It's a question of whether we could play a little less, but I'd be up to 151 if we had it covered today. But if you're saying that we're in an absolutely extraordinary situation, somehow you've been decompose to a minus 121 billion, so today we're quite objectively short of 30 billion crowns. And that's a lot, the 30 billion crowns. We know that. If we want to deal with this by taking it somewhere on the external market, taking a loan somewhere, solving it with some bonds, you must know that as a businessman, there is no way. What's it gonna do? He'll take the SFDI loan, the loan will probably be more expensive than if you took it or if it were added to the state budget, but especially the SFDI will be in debt, and who's gonna pay it back? In three years, in four, in five, I don't know when it's gonna be done, so it's gonna be a hard way to pay off and it's gonna cut back on the transport infrastructure in a few years, because logically any government is gonna be here, it could be our government, it could be your government, so logically, it's gonna have this problem. I'd take it if it was through foreign sources, like PPPs. That's different. You know it takes at least a year for PPP to prepare, and PPP will also compete. And if it's going to compete at maybe better prices than if it were doing ŘSD or SŽ, then I'd quite take it. But this is nothing but a normal loan and we're delaying the problem. That's what bothers me. That's why I'm saying that maybe it was better not to leave the 151 there, do it a little bit less, I'm not saying 130, I don't think so, maybe 140, and the rest a little bit more out of the state budget, and then I need to borrow 10 billion. I'd take that, but I think 30 billion is a gamble, and it's not good. But I don't want to bring it into this discussion right now, because it's 2023, I just reacted to the fact that you were saying about the investments. We'll save that for the next discussion. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Your speech raised one point of fact, with which the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is reporting. Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u34	Well, first, lighten up. It's like with the expenses you're guessing or the black script. You announced a four-minute gig, and it was nine minutes thirty-two seconds. I'm just saying it to lighten up. [[11.00 hours]] No, we're not at point zero on SFDI. We have a meeting with Minister Kupka at the European Investment Bank on Monday. We're nowhere near point one. And the assumption that, for example, the EIB will accept that it will be better conditions than the amount of government bonds, and we are approaching such an agreement. Of course, that's logical. If I can borrow for five percent, why would I borrow for six? I hope you don't suspect that's true. PPP projects also play a role in this. We're just not sure at this point how much this would have turned out in 2023. That's more like a year later. But it's getting ready, and it's the right way. But I think the debate is actually moving in the right direction. A few weeks ago, you were worried about the transport budget in 2023, and now you're worried about the budget sometime in the coming years. I think it's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. The state's investment activity must not fall. But the 140 wouldn't be enough because of what you signed for your ministry, and that's the mandatorial expenses. If the contracts are signed, the state simply has to pay them. So there was a very small space for us to be able to start any new events at all. Don't take that as a criticism, take that as a fact. You take the signed contracts and you figure out how much you draw in 2022, 23, 24 and 25. And you have a mandatorial expense. That has to be paid, whether you put it in the budget or not. We put it there, of course. In addition, we have given not only as much as we would like, but also some resources to launch new actions. But I'm sure the Minister of Transport will defend that and explain it better with the SFDI budget. Then the problem you drew attention to, we know, but intensively in cooperation with finance - transport, we work and we are not at a point zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Now I dare to read two apologies. Mr Vladimír Balaš apologizes all day - health reasons. Furthermore, Minister Martin Kupka apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons. At the same time, I would like to say that Mr Jan Kubík was here to see me, with whom an apology was read today, and perhaps there was some error in the system because he did not apologize for today. So I'm just calling it this way. We are now going back to the general debate to which the President of the ANO Alena Schillerová Group is, with priority right at the moment, signed up. The President Jakub Michálek will then prepare himself, and then I, with priority right, would also speak. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. You've said a lot in your long performance, Minister. I've been taking notes, and I'm only going to take a few points that interest me. SFDI. Well, if it were the other way around, what you and Karel Havlíček have just swapped with here, the debate, and I'm sure it's still going to happen, you'd be yelling at us here when you were working in the SFDI as an opposition MP. When there was something missing, I know how we had to justify to the billions here. But I don't want to do that right now. You said it really didn't work that way, that's what you said in the course of that amount of words. Yes, it really doesn't work that way. And I'll go back to the numbers. You don't have a choice to go down the road... If we went the way of the expenses that we increased. Oh, yeah. Possibly. We fought covid. I didn't know if the facilities would be closed for a month, two, three. I didn't know how much restrictions would be necessary if there were no vaccinations, there were no vaccines, and we were in the situation we were in. We didn't know how much the second wave would hit in the fall. I know you think we should've known then, we should've known what that covid was gonna do, the invisible covid. So I actually created a reserve in the government's budget reserve for expenses back then. That's when you yelled at me that I couldn't have that amount without specifying it. So then we gave an estimate of how much it would go into the public sector. Because unlike you, we helped the regions, towns, municipalities. We gave as much as we could to the business sector. I should have known all about it then, even our government, and you don't have to know that perfectly today. So I actually put some kind of reserve in the government's budget reserve back then, and it turned out to be very prudent. Because when the second wave struck after some opposition politicians made an opulent lunch on the Charles Bridge, and the second wave struck, we were just ready to start the auxiliary programs immediately. You don't have a choice. You can't choose whether that or that. You have clearly given the mandatorial expenses, so you have to put it on the expense side. Once again, once it's 130, once it's 160, it's 100. But what you put on the revenue side is strictly given. And notice, I wasn't criticizing... [[Minister Stanjura discusses next to the speaker's desk.]] I see you don't care much. - Notice that I didn't criticize the fact that you didn't stick strictly to the macroeconomic prognosis that you increased your income and tax there. I didn't criticize that. You noticed that. That was very generous of me to pass. I'm criticizing that you've increased it by 150 billion virtual income, which you have nothing to support. So you were supposed to have a 445 billion deficit, not 295. So really, like you said, it really doesn't work. Bruegel Agency. I'm not arguing with you about whether he gave it or not, I'm coming out of the Bruegel agency. All this time, this agency has been showing our covido help, and it's showing energy aid just the same now. So I'm not doing any of our or your numbers at all. So the Bruegel agency, which, for the last time, is our last evaluation, 16th place in the Czech Republic. She fell through the fourth because they crossed out things that weren't supposed to be there. They looked into it, in the intestines, and they said no, helping ČEZ doesn't belong there. And that's curious. So out of EUR 6 billion, that's three. So we have 16th place. You can look that up on Bruegel. It's a Brussels agency. This includes our VAT waiver in November and December 2021. Development of inflation, fourth highest is still in the Czech Republic. [[Minister Stanjura objects to the fifth.]] Fifth, okay. Well, fifth, I'm sure it's nothing to brag about. So it's nothing to brag about. And we don't blame you, either, unlike you, you did it, we don't blame you for inflation. You can't. We're not gonna call Fialův's precious, like you said Babišův's precious when it was 4 to 5 percent. But what we're blaming is that you're not doing anything about the help and that it's slow and that it's just inadequate. That's still the debate we're having. You repeated several times that your deficits are still lower than our government's proposed and approved deficit for 2022. Yes, our government has proposed a deficit of 376,6 billion for 2022. You remind me of that all the time, you reminded me. Whereas you suggested 280, now 330, it's still lower. And I'm asking: Are we still on for this? Where's the 30 billion for the businessmen? I have your words, as you spoke so quickly here, so I have tried a little bit to read between the lines, and I am not sure if you are worth the sum of 330 billion and what other amendments will actually appear here. And the next time you take a word for it, try telling us where the $30 billion is for the businessman. Karel Havlíček and I have been asking this question repeatedly. Increase in social expenses. Oh, yeah. It was by law. Thank God for the law. The extraordinary valuation of pensions has shown that even more scissors have spread between low-income and high-income. I hear it all the time in those squares. Educated. Yes, that was pushed through by the former Chamber of Deputies, or our government. Thank God for that. I'm sure a 500 bucks for every raised kid will help. There's no doubt about it. I know it's hard to reduce the structural deficit. I've been Secretary of Finance for four years. When you called on me to do what our government did, and you asked me what it did before covid came, which I consider a correct question, I would like to remind you of measures to increase tax collection, such as monitoring reports in particular, but also EET. Control report. I refer to the Supreme Prosecutor's report - I don't know exactly if it was from 2019 or 2020, but now if I didn't say it right, I apologize - when he said that it abolished carousel fraud in this country to VAT and a very significant VAT gap has been reduced, called VAT Gap actually as a result of this measure. [[11.10 hours]] EET, WE'VE TALKED A LOT OF TIMES ABOUT THIS, AND WE'RE SURE TO TALK ABOUT IT. This took a very important measure on the revenue side and I had a consolidation plan prepared. It would have been for a long time, perhaps if our government had come, and the war had come in Ukraine, it would have lasted longer, but the point is that we would have embarked on it. We didn't beat each other in the breasts before the parliamentary elections, how we're gonna shake this magic wand, how we're gonna cut it, because it's PR. And you can attack me all you want, that's PR. Three months of unnecessary commission, deficit 280, now 330. And we'll see what happens after tonight, what happens, what happens. That means I've never lowered the National Budget Council. The National Budget Board and the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts were established at the time when the Ministry of Finance was in the sense of the ANO movement. It was our proposal. Nothing pushed us into this at the time. And the fact that I sometimes disagreed with some things doesn't mean that I'm dehonesting or disrespecting them. That's it. And you won't find any words where I'll somehow dehoneze them. She didn't agree, there's a difference. But they're right about this, there's no doubt about it. That something needs to be prepared, and so far you're going in the exact opposite direction. Officials are growing on you. Tomorrow, we'll probably pass the Civil Service Act at the third reading, we'll grow more political deputys, more apparatuses associated with it. So I don't see any of those words that - I'm sorry - I consider to be empty from your mouth at the moment, which you so pronounced before the elections you repeated. When I told you where you'd make the savings, if you'd only do it on the expense side, you'd always say, well, we'd cancel the army of officials. But you haven't prepared anything for 2023. I don't blame you for 2022, which is why I'm telling you that we need to talk about these things, but we need a combination on the revenue side. Did I tell you why you're afraid of vice taxes? Let's continue with them. I know it doesn't bring tens of billions, but it doesn't have to flow, especially when it drips. And when you make a combination on the income, on the spending side, global taxation of these global companies, press them, use the Presidency. You said you were close. Make it happen. It's very important, it also brings something. And a combination of both. But you're not talking to us. And here from your speech, I understand that I can't. That you can't politically enforce any structural reforms. So I translated your words. But that's completely different rhetoric from what you said before the election. Retirement reform, copy that. I totally understand. For 30 years, no government has done it, and neither has ours. And I'm not gonna make excuses for covid. Yes, covid, you have a war, we all have something, so I'm not attacking you here. I just don't understand that Minister Jurečka will form a team where he doesn't invite anyone from the opposition. You've admitted yourself that there must be a more consensual... not only the government coalition, so that it doesn't turn out to be the next government representative, or the next representative in the Chamber of Deputies will cancel it again. I told you repeatedly, use the OECD study our government has commissioned. At the time, our government left independent... asked independent foreign experts from the OECD to prepare proposals for the sustainability of public finances, pension reform. Look at them. The study lies at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as at the Ministry of Finance. Yes, it's not easy. And I'm sure it'll take a long time to consolidate public finances. But resigning to it is completely, totally wrong, in my opinion. You said... you named three figures, which, of course, make me happy, or three statistics from September this year, the least vulnerable people of poverty, the lowest unemployment in the EU, and the smallest number of outstanding loans to August. Those are definitely positive numbers. But there's no doubt that our government has a stake in them, especially when even in the covid we created programs to maintain employment, whether it was Antivirus, whether it was a compensatory bonus, Antivirus for employees, for companies to maintain employment, a compensatory bonus... Yes, you voted for many of them, such as a compensatory bonus. I'm not denying it. We supported it. But it was certainly the steps that the lowest unemployment in the Czech Republic had in relation to the EU. Well, and the least people at risk of poverty, it was certainly also a measure, because these measures always have some kind of continuance and impact. As for the smallest number of outstanding loans, I am happy about this. You remember that at that time we pushed through very demandingly and for the first time ever in the history of the so-called credit moratorium, when six months of people in covid, who suddenly stopped doing business, did not have to pay back. I'm sure it helped back then. However, this criterion will also be related to the fact that our mortgage numbers are falling dramatically, the number of loans, because people are not able to do so in relation to the high interest that the former management of the Czech National Bank has introduced here. So I know that we will certainly have a very detailed discussion of the budget for 2023. I've already said the most fundamental reservations, and I'll say them when we get into those intestines and we can judge it with everything, but I just think that from your words I'm taking such an unpleasant feeling that you're essentially giving up any structural reform that you're saying that you can't, that it's politically impassable. So have fun with the opposition, have fun with us. As former finance minister, who has been going through a severe covid crisis for over two years, our country, of course, our government, I think I could, and other colleagues of mine, Karel Havlíček and others, can say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up two factual points. Mr Vojtěch Munzar is registered with the first. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. I want to follow up on Mrs Schillerová, through you. It seems from her speech that all the problems of our public finances arose at the time of the covid. But if you look at the long-term development, that's not true at all. Even at a time of economic growth before covid, state budget spending began to rise faster than revenue. And that was the basis of the big structural deficits. And that, my colleague, was you through you, Minister of Finance. I'll just remind you how the Supreme Audit Office assessed the state budget for 2019. This contribution evaluated that public finances were at the time, and we were in economic growth, less prepared for a possible crisis than in the previous crisis between 2010 and 2011. Let me remind you of a specific example. At the beginning of 2019, you dissolved the National Property Fund, improved your budget revenue by 18 billion. That's when you visually reduced the deficit, but it was the dissolution of reserves, which we then missed very much, we were missing now and we were missing at the time of the covideo. So please look at the long-term trend, don't just talk about covid, because the basis of public finances was given before the covid at the time of economic growth. And it was a huge economic mistake. So the criticism here today from your side is, from my point of view, hypocritical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u40	I would ask that we do not translate from Czech into Czech. I said that I do not believe that there will be one or two simple changes that will reduce the structural deficit by 100 billion. This is quite different from resigning from trying to reduce the structural deficit. And I will tell you why, Mrs Schillerová, through the Vice-President. [[11.20 hours]] You really proposed one big system change in the order of over 100 billion. Remember? In 2019. I'll read you the headlines: The government against Schillerová. It's Schillerová's idea, I'm against it. Communists, Social Democrats: We are against it. Czech Medical Chamber: We're against it. - How's that? What did Mrs Schillerová actually propose? She suggested that we cancel the state insurance payments, and we transfer the burden to employees and businessmen. Next year, approximately CZK 140 billion will be paid for state insurance. So if Mrs Schillerová had pushed through this change - and it would have been a substantial change in the structural deficit - we would have zero in this line next year, not 140 billion. But who would pay for it? That's no savings. They'd pay for businessmen and employees. And with this proposal, you failed even in your own movement. So I'm not going to say theoretical cases like President Zeman, who will say, cancel tax exemptions. In other words, he says tax the elderly and give them health insurance. And I say we don't. And once again, here comes President Zeman, to whom you applaud so much, and he says, "Cancel the tax exemptions - but he won't say which one. So in other words, we're supposed to cancel tax exemptions for hundreds of billions. And that would be in favour of the structural deficit, so he would have transferred the money to somewhere else entirely. Here's what we're really rejecting. [[Minister, time.]] We refuse the State to pay for health insurance workers, but employees and businessmen and to tax them - I apologize, otherwise I would have to sign in - to tax pensions or to make pensioners pay health insurance. These are good advice from the opposition spectrum and from the Castle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u41	So it's been exceeded, but I understand you need to finish the sentence. The President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová, is another person who is signed up with a point of fact. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. I can think of a quote from the movie Pupendo "Ališ, don't drag the prehistoric." Minister, please try to talk about the future. You have pulled a completely incorrect part of the items prepared by the working group at the level of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health. It has never been on the agenda or on the agenda internally within the framework of the ANO movement. It was a context and a package where you pulled out one fragment, which was not discussed or mentioned and which incorrectly escaped from the Ministry of Health in part to the media. So there's never been anything like this on the agenda of the day. Stick to your own reforms. And to Mr Munzar, through the Vice-President. Look at the numbers. I just didn't get a chart right now, and I'm gonna pull it out in the meantime, 'cause I'm definitely not gonna be the last one here. For governments, or at a time when the YES movement succeeded in the Ministry of Finance, we were reducing our debt. The only three ministers had a surplus budget. Václav Klaus, Andrej Babiš and I. It never happened for your governments. When we took over, the YES movement, the Ministry of Finance, the debt was 44.4 percent of GDP. I guess I'm right. We handed it over in December 2021. That was then... actually December 2013, we handed it over with a debt of 41.9 percent of GDP. Without the rest, we were ready, and without the rest, we could afford simply this help during the time of the covid. And, of course, let's not forget that it wasn't just on the expense side, but we canceled a super gross wage here together. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, too. All factual remarks have now been exhausted, so we will return to the priority rights. I'm just taking the liberty of reading three apologies at this point. Mr Milan Feranec all day for health reasons, Marek Výborný from 10.15 for work reasons and Michal Šalomoun from 11 am to 16 pm for work reasons. Mr. Jakub Michálek, President of the MP's club, is under priority right at the moment. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, I would like to thank the opposition for allowing this amendment to be discussed and supported by the agenda for today's negotiations, as well as for the debate that we are having here, which is important. However, I have to respond to some of the speeches that have been made here and set them straight. First of all, we are really presenting this amendment to the budget because of the start of the war here and the huge price increase following the war. That's a thing we can't twist. And I consider it a very dangerous rhetoric that has been launched here since the opposition, that only 20 billion have to do with war. On the contrary, the story is clearly that the price increase is largely linked to the war and the maneuvers or measures that the war aggressor is doing to damage us, to force us to do things that we do not want to do. So I would really ask that we conduct this discussion correctly, so that we do not accept the positions of war deniers and their effects on the Czech economy. If we want relevant data, let us take a look at the websites of the world energy organisation, which describes the causes of energy price increases. We will look at their website or our energy site.pirati.cz, where we explain it. In May 2021, President Putin placed the Czech Republic on the list of Russian enemies. We all know it was a rematch for Willow. And already in September 2021, the world energy agency pointed out that gas supplies to Europe are becoming more expensive by Russia. Of course, lack of gas means higher prices. And that was five months before the invasion. So five months before the invasion, there was an increase in gas prices. And of course, clearly Putin was going to the war to get the money for it. And since then, we have seen Putin manipulate gas supplies deliberately and for political reasons because it is gaining money for war and putting pressure on European democracies. That is why I was somewhat surprised by the fact that I would quite say a sincere confession from President Schillerová to quote that the government of Andrej Babiš did not address the energy crisis. That's what I think needs to be appreciated. It's solid, it's a solid description of the state, which was also heard here by the President, it's possible to look it up in the log. And it's a shame. It may be a bit of a shame, because, even when Andrej Babiš and his government were in control, energy prices rose by 441 percent from EUR 50 per megawatt hour to EUR 250 per megawatt hour. And, of course, Mr. Havlíček said that. We were together in the Questions of Václav Moravka, where he talked about how he dealt with the energy crisis. However, the statement that the government did not deal with the energy crisis during Andrej Babiš at the time is quite a true description, although the rhetoric was actually there, is an effort to show some activity here. Unfortunately, the measures, the energy vouchers were not taken at the time, were only short-term measures in the form of tax relief, which, moreover, turned out to be illegal. I'm sorry he doesn't perform here when we're discussing such a crucial matter, Chairman YES, Mr. Babiš. I don't think you've actually seen him here in the Chamber of Deputies lately. Which is odd, because he promised to fight until the body is torn apart, and now we don't see him here in the Chamber of Deputies when the largest amounts are being discussed. And now for the alternative that ANO offers. This is the one and a half trillion virtual spending on different groups, where each opposition, of course, promises everything because it has no government responsibility. [[11.30 hours]] I must say, I was very surprised that President Schillerová here is questioning the 100 billion crowns that this government has accused itself of choosing in the form of a solidarity contribution from energy companies. That they're drawn in the draft budget. Yes, they are drawn there - for one reason only, and that this government expects it to withdraw the money. And the Budgetary Rules Act states that if the expected revenue is to be included in the state budget, just as you have put in there a bank tax that has never been implemented in real life, so we think that we want to put in this 100 billion. Except with the only distinct difference that we really want to withdraw the money. And it's not an amount that's virtual. It is an amount that is also based on discussions at European Union level, which recommends that Member States actually withdraw the money from those who make the most of the war. So I can't agree with the criticism that state budget revenue is virtual. On the contrary, we have discussed this many times with the government and with Minister Stanjura that we must get this money into the budget, otherwise it would have really led to the fact that we will have deficits like they were under previous governments. So I think that even in this regard, the opposition should, on the contrary, be made clear whether it supports the money that is drawn there, or whether it will build it up in the future. When the government comes here with a proposal for taxation, for the solidarity contribution of energy companies, refineries, other entities that make extra money - but I do not see the complete courage of this clear political position because the President is leaving the hall. [[Mrs Schiller is returning to the bench.]] So instead of making it clear whether they will support these taxes in the Chamber of Deputies, or whether they will obstruct them, as they did the other things that we have designed here, as they are building up the EET, so on the one hand, they are accusing us of not reducing the number of officials, and if we want to reduce the number of civil servants by 300 people who have devoted themselves to the EET, it is, of course, the subject of hard obstructions from the opposition here in the Chamber of Deputies. And now to the amount that's quite virtual, the one and a half trillion that the opposition is handing out to the different electoral groups they promise, because you won't grieve with a promise. This really is not possible to finance from vice tax. And, Madam President, I must appreciate that, which is what she honestly said here. These are maximum units of billions of crowns. The vice tax, if we're talking about cigarettes, for example, they're already planned as we approved it. There are stairs with tax increases to come, so we can increase as much as possible after 2023. Already there is planned an increase, which will occur from 1. 1. So, in relation to the budget that we will approve for next year, there is already an increase foreseen. As far as lotteries are concerned, they're at 35 percent today. We can talk about how much this can be increased, but again we are at the limits of the fact that the taxes are relatively high, and if they continue to increase, it might not lead to such a rapid increase in income; again in units of billions of crowns. And we can, of course, talk about what wasn't mentioned here at all, and these are income, for example, from the regulated cannabis market. That's about CZK 3 billion, or possibly from the regulation of prostitution, that's about CZK billion, or after what we've been talking about, the taxation of global companies. But that, again, is the thing that has to be done on the OECD floor plan, where it's being negotiated, where we're getting close to a deal, and we're really close before the deal is made. So in a situation where we would now throw a pitchfork into the negotiation that we would come up with our very own national regulation, we certainly wouldn't be doing it any good. In conclusion, I would just like to make one request. Please don't jump in to the fact that the increase in the energy prices I was talking about here, under the rule of Andrej Babiš, from 50 euros per megawatt hour to 250 euros per megawatt hour, by 441 percent that environmental activists did this. This is a delusion about the evil green men who have caused an energy crisis here, which really is nothing but error. And it's a shame that when we, as pirát, could do something about it when we were the only ones who said, look, it's weird, Putin turned the faucets, even on the basis of reports from the international organization or the energy agency, and redirected the gas supplies to China, then unfortunately from the opposition, then even after the Yes elections in the government, it was said that the causes lie somewhere else. And that was the delusion about the bad green men. I do not deny that changes in energy in Germany, and we can think of them as we want, to a certain extent affect allowances as well. But we're talking about 10 percent here. Ninety percent of the increase in energy prices is linked, and undeniably, says the energy organisation, so says its Secretary-General Birol, so it is connected with the increase in gas prices. If we deny this, I don't think it's defending Czech interests, but it's defending misinformation and someone else's interests. I hope that we will be able to approve this draft budget today, and I would therefore ask that we really take the changes as a result of the war, including the increase that is undoubtedly directly linked to the war and gas prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. The first person to sign up is Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mrs Alena Schillerová, Mrs Margita Balaštíková and Mr Karel Havlíček will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. I will only be very brief, because here I will speak again to President Michálek. Mr President, in November and December, right after these price fluctuations started happening on the energy market, Babišův's government forgave - you said that here, but just as by the way - VAT and forgave renewable energy charges for November and December. It even applied in some way, as I remember, a veto at European level, and somehow emission allowances were dealt with. As for helping families afterwards, I didn't notice that you had any amendment in the draft state budget concerning the parental contribution that you've probably been promising since the beginning of your reign that you're going to raise and enforce it, and three weeks ago you had a press conference where you said you were going to go to the government here with this, and where nothing, here nothing, has escaped! And as for the little green men, I really think that in the part of this energy mess we're in, it's easy for Green Deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. The President of the Alena Schillerová parliamentary club is another person who is registered with a factual remark. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I can't even run out of my limit. Just, Mr. Chairman, I came back, I needed to use the bathroom, but I came back out of courtesy because you challenged me. I will simply - I will be very polite - incoherent, I will not respond to an incomprehensible speech for me and places. Just -- you're a lawyer, if I'm not mistaken, through the Vice-President, so I'm not gonna lecture you to study the budget rules, and that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for keeping time. The next person to sign up is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. I'll ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u50	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I am just a insertion, a response to my colleague Michálek, through Madam President. I do not want to talk about green men, but the green policy of Germany and the green policy that hit Europe are a major part of the increase in energy prices. It's shutting down nuclear power plants and things like that, of course. So there's a shortage, so, of course, prices moved on the market. I do not deny that war has moved the price, of course, and what is happening in the territory of the states east of us, but please, let us not say that it is not, because it is. And I would like our media to see the appearances of the German Parliament, because there are much worse fights than we do, because those who hold the ratio are acting against this policy because they realize that they will turn out very badly if we don't start using healthy common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u51	Thank you for keeping time. The next person to sign up is Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Karel Havlíček. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u52	I will put an end to these green men, but they are responsible for two things, Mr President, through Madam President. First of all, for what the emission allowance market looks like today. He's completely upset, he's in the hands of speculators in particular, and an instrument that didn't look bad at first sight has become an instrument that today destroys a huge number of industries across Europe, completely erratic. Just look at how the value of emission allowances in 2020 was estimated in the European Commission, how it was supposed to move to, what amounts in 2030, 2040, 2050, and we will find that the European Commission was wrong by 25 years with regard to the prices of these allowances. The second problem is the one that has already fallen here, and it is the shutting down of coal, and especially the core. And the green men are behind it, because if the core hadn't been shut down and then the coal, there wouldn't be that much demand for gas. And we can talk about why Germany started focusing on gas from Russia. Probably pragmatically, it was easy for them, maybe lobbying, maybe anything else. But the fact is, if there was no demand for gas today, then logically, the price wouldn't be so high and it wouldn't be passed on to the price of electricity that's inherently connected with it. And why is there demand for gas? Well, because Germany has created a huge amount of resources right in steam-gas power plants at the expense of coal and core. I would still partially understand it in the coal, it was a certain trend, although I could discuss the final year, but I absolutely don't understand it in the nuclear policy. See how many nuclear power plants there are across Europe. See how many are in France, see how many are in the countries around Germany. The consequence of this green German policy is that today the prices are off the grid. Yes, the war, thanks to speculation and the extortion of Russia, gave it the final blow, but it was made possible because of the demand. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for keeping time. Your performance raised further factual points. At the moment Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and prepare Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u54	I have already reported when Mr. Aleš Juchelka spoke that he is spreading delusions here, and we should not unwittingly spread delusions. [[unintelligible]] Babišův's government did not decide to abolish VAT, it was the former Minister of Finance who made the illegal decision. Unlawful. I can provide data from independent lawyers. The government just doesn't have that competence, not Babišův, not our government. Secondly, no charges for renewable resources were forgiven last year. That's what you said, Mr. Ambassador. The first fees will be forgiven from 1 October this year. Then I want to say to all the experts on German and Austrian politics that these are democratic countries in which elections are taking place, and if their voters in Austria did not wish to shut down nuclear power plants, it simply wasn't. I know the YES movement probably doesn't have a partner party in Austria. Find an Austrian political party that supports nuclear power plants. So it wasn't the green men, it was the decision of the Austrian voters who reflected the representatives of the parliament. The Green Party is also an important political force in Germany. We can ironize here, but we must respect the results of democratic elections in other countries. The Green Party has the Secretary of State today, the Minister of Economic Affairs. And again, they're not just activists if they didn't get those parties with this program... And we can criticize the program and be happy in the Czech Republic that such parties do not have such success as they do in Germany or Austria, but we must respect the democratic results of the elections and not master German or Austrian voters from here. Yes, we have chosen another path, I am glad that we have chosen another path, but if we are democrats, then we must respect the results of the elections with our neighbours. It seems to me really, this debate... it's so safe here to criticize Austria and Germany and distract us from what we're supposed to do in the Czech Republic. But these are the results of the elections, democratic elections in these countries, and I am glad that the voters support other parties that this program, for example... [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is President Jakub Michálek, and Margita Balaštíková and Karel Havlíček will be prepared. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly agree with Mr Havlíček that if there was no such demand for gas in Germany, in the Czech Republic, if we were not so dependent, it would, of course, be much better. And we can tell ourselves how it came about, and if the Green Agreement really is and was supposed to be a gas agreement. I think it's nonsense. And even as the fact that it was more or less approached instead of investing in real green infrastructure, to build wind power plants in the Czech Republic, for example, which are not built here, it was a mistake. And it was also a mistake in that... that Europe succumbed to the gas industry lobbying, that it was just that the addiction there was such that it was a huge vulnerability, a huge weakness for the whole of Europe, where Putin was basically just waiting for the opportunity to take advantage of it. But we here within the Czech Chamber of Deputies really will not help us here to talk about what the Němec could do differently in their national policy. We're really small men for that. And at the same time, if I remember correctly, when there was a delegation from Germany 14 days ago, no one answered. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u58	I would really like to thank the Minister of Finance, through Madam President, for his words, and therefore ask him to take care of ourselves, our citizens, to abandon their green policy, and we, the citizens of the Czech Republic, who do not seem to be able to handle it financially, will ask you to take care of us in particular. So what they do is their business, and let's give them our excess electricity. Start working on it, you have the opportunity to talk to the EU Presidency about it, that we do not fully agree with it, because we simply do not have the funds for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for keeping time. The next person to be logged in is Vice-President Karel Havlíček. Jakub Michálek will be ready - no, downloading, so Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u60	I, Minister of Finance, do not question the fact that it is democratic, that is okay, but that is a completely separate discussion. They have the opportunity to decide what they want, both in Austria and in Germany, and we have no choice but to respect that. The discussion was about why the prices are high today. And no doubt, even though they democratically decided to shut down the core, it's one of the reasons that the core isn't there today, the extremely high price. And it has, of course, connotations or conventions, and they are now in the fact that the Czech Republic, and that is what I do not like about it, which is self-sufficient, which it has chosen, let's say, a little dirtier or more demanding energy mix, so today it largely pays that Germany, which has gone the way greener, Austria even greener, has pulled the prices up. And that is because we are moving on the single energy market and the single energy market does not allow us to buy at prices according to our energy mix, but depending on the demand and supply throughout Europe, and that is, of course, what Germany is doing. So we are in an illogical situation that we now sometimes have more expensive electricity towards countries that are even suing us for the core, which is Austria, or countries that are particularly critical of us because of it, which is Germany. And that is what we can hardly do today by just waving our hands, because no one will understand the single energy European market when it's constellated like this. But it's democratic, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Richard Brabec and Zbyněk Stanjura will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u62	I would still like to speak to my previous speaker, Mr Michálek, through you, Madam President. You know, Mr. Colleague, if Green Deal had really been decided by experts, not activists who didn't quite understand it, then maybe it wouldn't have turned out that way. And since you mentioned windbreakers, please find a worldwide study of how certain weather effects of German windwinders have actually affected the Czech Republic and such matters. Maybe it'll help you think about whether it was the right decision. Because I'm always here to listen to the experts, because the bad consequences are always about not wanting to listen to the experts and maybe we've had our own political opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u63	Thank you for keeping time. The next one who's logged in is Mr. Richard Brabec. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. I couldn't take it either. For Mr. Chairman Michálek. Of course, the Green Deal has something to do with this crisis, Mr President. For a simple reason. And Germany. The Energiewende German was based on the Němec shutting down the coal blocks, shutting down the core. The core, therefore, is hard to understand based on the disaster in Fukushima and certainly the influence of German political organizations like the Greens, who pushed the government significantly. [[11.50 hours]] This was simply the reason that far or far before Russia's aggression in Ukraine, of course, began to happen because dozens of blocks would normally be in reserve. And then it was enough for other factors to contribute, of which, of course, Russia's aggression was the important dot. But the beginning was way earlier, and the beginning is really called Energiewende. And the Green Deal is quite differently evaluated, or it can be perceived in Nordic countries such as Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway and others, whether or not part of the EU, and otherwise in a country called the Czech Republic and Germany is bound by an umbilical cord both energyally and industrially. So saying there's no connection is nonsense. Of course, there's a big connection. Now, of course, they're all rubbing their heads. And I'm not here to master the place either. The Germans must have made that decision after some debate, it's also a very industrial country. Today they see that the decision was fatally wrong, and they are very worried about it. But let's not make that conclusion again that green Deal doesn't play any part in it. Of course, he was precisely the reason that those countries would gradually shut down those high-emission blocks, and that is why today we are without reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Jakub Michálek will be ready. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u66	So since the budget amendment 2022, we've been at Green Deal, kind of an interesting turn, but why not? I have a simple question that I think is a difficult answer to. Even Mr Brabec was part of the government that agreed to the creation of the Green Deal, the agreement. Not by a de facto vote, but by a real vote. And it's so easy to say yes first, and then when I don't have the government's responsibility, criticize it. I am not saying that it would be easy to oppose this in Europe. But I have not heard these sharp words from your mouth, Mr Brabč, through Madam Vice-President, then. And I agree with many of those words. I was just saying not to transfer the debate to green men, and I think we have a similar view of many green activists or so-called activists. But what has long been happening in the energy mix in our neighbouring countries was the result of the elections, whether we like it or not. That's just the truth. And I've been saying in the long run that the biggest excesses of Green Deal, of course, will not come to light, that when those costs hit the middle class in those countries that supported it, it will affect their policies. And today we see it. Let's see what's going on. The Chairman of the Green Party is the Minister of Economy and is launching coal power plants. It extends the operation of nuclear power plants. Well, that would be fiction if we said two years ago that the "green" minister of the economy in Germany would do it. So, in my opinion, many decisions will be re-evaluated for greater rationality, and perhaps by the fact that the transition will be slower and we will wait for real innovation and we will not prevent political decisions from being innovative solutions. I'm sure you do. But that's all, I'm not here to defend this deal, I'm just saying, those words should have been heard in the debate when you had government responsibility. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u67	Thank you very much. The President of the Pirates Parliamentary Club, Mr Jakub Michálek, is another one who is signed on with a factual remark. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u68	Thanks for the word. Okay, once again, let's get this straightened out about the green men. So I looked up an interview with the head of the world's energy agency, which I'm sure is an expert. And it states as a myth, one of the myths, that today's crisis is caused by pure energy. The article says: The world agency's chief said that politicians now regret not building solar power plants and wind power plants faster to improve the energy industry. And, in fact, more low-carbon energy would be very helpful to ease or relieve the crisis and speed up change in the direction of this crisis, says Secretary Birol. According to him, people who blame clean energy for this crisis are thus diverting attention from the real culprits, and that is a gas squeeze and Russia. So if you think you're a better energy expert, go ahead, run for the head of the world's energy agency, and you'll be sure to comment more on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u69	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Vice-President of the MP's club, Mr Richard Brabec. Margita Balaštíková and Martin Exner will be ready. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u70	Thanks for the word. Well, Mr President Michálek, by your means, Madam President, one does not have to be the head of the world's energy agency to know that those renewable resources work at a time when there is blowing or glowing or water flowing, for example, now I mean in rivers. And the moment it doesn't happen, and maybe it's happened several times, and now it just happened last winter, it's happening this winter too, so the renewables are just for you to have funguseles, because you can't save it, because you don't have that kind of accumulation. That just doesn't exist today. That's easy to graduate. You don't really have to run for head of the world's energy agency. And it's also definitely out of context. It's so easy, you just need to make it when it doesn't shine, it doesn't blow, and it doesn't flow. That's the whole principle, simplisticly, of renewable resources. You just have to have the so-called base low, the basic load that works without it. Well, that's coal or core, or gas, if we're not talking here, I don't know, burning, energy recovery of waste and other things, but that's relatively small. So this is pretty clear. That means, on the contrary, the problems that are now in those renewable sources are just that when we say, say, if the weather falls somewhere, it just doesn't blow, so in the north, it's not produced by the North Sea, and there's just no energy. On the contrary, when it blows too much, then the situation was that the prices were negative. It's very simple, and you just need the rest. To the Minister of Finance. Minister, if you look up my appearance in Brussels on the Council, you'll find I've talked about it many times. It is that we must not be more papal than the Pope and that the Green Deal has clear limitations and that there is a need to slow down. The paradoxical expression of today's government in these forums is more green about knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mrs Margita Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u72	Once again, I respond to my previous speaker through Madam President. You may be surprised, colleague Michálek, but I, with a large part of what you read here, agree, but it was taken out of context. It really was. And it kind of smacked me with fanaticism against directing that hatred against something. We really should tell each other that even the experts can be wrong sometimes. And as a manager, I've always held an opinion: I'll invite two, if two opinions are different, I'll invite a third or four. You know what... And here what you've been reading to us, I'm really going to find that speech, and I'm afraid you've only ripped out a few sentences that just fit into the discussion. But it really isn't. And let's not exactly look for the culprit that we're gonna tell these guys it's because it's really a set of things. And now I don't even care how many percent who or what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Your performance raised further factual points. I would like to point out that we have - how many more entered speakers in the general debate? At this point, however, Mr Martin Exner is registered. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u74	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to remind you that Green Deal had two important reasons. For one thing, it was global warming, and that's not the invention of activists, but we already have scientific analyses for that, and secondly, of course, it's a bonus to getting rid of fossil fuel addiction from Russia. [[12.00 hours]] And of course, Russia, which has the dominant part of exports and the dominant part of the state budget revenue dependent on oil, gas and coal exports and its prices, is a existential threat to Russia. And if we cancel Green Deal, we'll cause heat, drought, and unpredictable weather changes for generations to come. And I believe that Green Deal did not contradict Babišův's government in the negotiations of the European Union. And who's against Green Deal in the long run is for Russia's addiction and for Russia's dependence on those fuels. So we support by abolishing Green Deal, Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr Václav Král and will prepare Margita Balaštíková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u76	Thank you. I, in order not to have to abuse you here, Madam President, have a few glosses here for what has been said here in the past few minutes. I don't think there's a misunderstanding that Green Deal and the high dependence on the combustion of natural gas just brought us into this situation. And it's exactly the opposite. Whoever supports Green Deal could be called Putinův's goblin and agent, because Green Deal is the one who created the big addiction to natural gas. Then there were those stabilization sources in the framework of the stabilization of the electricity system. My colleague Brabec forgot one, which is, for example, water power plants. And now that the ice is broken here and we're talking about green men - or even women - so that we don't get dirty - tell me what the green men and wives are gonna do when we say we're gonna build a new water plant or pumping water plant somewhere? And what's happening here today, I'm a little sorry, because if you look at the situation that happened in Germany, Germany won't give us any more gas. The German Parliament is acting completely differently. And I'm really surprised by the peace we're dealing with here. We're talking here today - in quotation marks only - about the prices of power electricity. With the development of renewable sources, and I have nothing against them, we will talk about the overwhelming increase in distribution costs, which means fixed electricity costs, and within a very short period of time we can address the real availability of energy. That means, folks, we're not gonna have the heat here, and we're not gonna have the electricity physically, at any cost, we're just not gonna have the energy here. So, please, let's move forward with this debate, let's hold the government's programming statement, which clearly states that thermal coal power plants will not be shut down until we build sufficient capacity stable resources. And I hereby thank Minister Stanjur, when I think a week or two ago he made himself clear for the construction of other nuclear blocks, and let us do everything we can to keep at least those coal resources until then. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At the moment, Mrs Margita Balaštíková is registered. I'll say another in order - Mr. Vojtko, Mr. Havlíček, Mr. Zlínský. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u78	I originally wanted to speak to the speaker, but my colleague, the Král, actually blew my breath away, and so, through you, Madam President, I would like to say - thank you, Mr Král. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u79	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered at the moment with a factual remark is Mr Viktor Vojtko. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u80	Madam President, I dare to respond to the words of the Václav Král by your means. I think there are two things that need to be realized at Green Deal. Green Deal - we're making a terrible mix of ways to achieve a goal, and that goal itself. I think that if we talk about what Green Deal's goals are, we will get there, and I will follow up on Exner's colleague, the climate-related debate, of course, with energy security and the provision of resources that are not dependent on potentially problematic suppliers like Russia at the moment. If we talk about the journey, we'll definitely find a lot of mistakes there, and maybe if we split the discussion in this way, it'll help us understand each other, because in a lot of ways, we might find a common ground, even if it doesn't look like that when we put it under one of these labels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u81	Thank you for keeping time. The next person to sign in is Vice-President Karel Havlíček of the House, prepared by Vladimír Zlínský, Václav Král, Berenika Peštová. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u82	Well, I really don't know what to tell you right now. I thank Mr Král, who has confirmed for a long time that he is one of those who understands energy. But, Mr Exner, through Madam President, what you said in the finals, and I understand that you can root for Green Deal and that you can root for the green solution, and basically she always needs to be in the middle of it, but to say that whoever speaks out against Green Deal is a supporter of Putin, that is something crazy. I don't know if anyone's watching this, please, let's write that down somewhere, but that's total arrogance, ridicule, I don't know, I mean... I can't believe you'd be serious about this. Let's discuss what's right, what's wrong with it, but say that when someone defends some of their energy mix, they're against it, they're not. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. But that was my fault, because I guess I didn't give the time limit. If there's anyone else you'd like to add, I'm sorry. At this point, another person who is on the verdict is Mr Vladimír Zlínský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u84	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the Green Deal issue. It has already been said here that if Green Deal is promoted by Europe, I think it will not significantly affect the global climate. Probably the whole world would have to join this in order to make a fundamental impact on this. That's one thing. And the second thing I wanted to mention here. I think everything we're talking about here is pointless, and climate change will happen if it's true, what scientists are telling us if new energy sources don't show up, that is, if we don't make it to the end of electricity production using fusion reactors and possibly biotechnology. So I'm pointing out here that we need to support the scientific research and development of these technologies, otherwise it's all twirling in circles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u85	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Václav Král will be prepared by Mrs Berenika Peštová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. The German Energiewende was based on imports of cheap gas from the countries of the Russian Federation and all efforts to diversify the supply of natural gas were constantly undermined, whether it was Stork II, whether it was South Stream, TurkStream and I do not know what other projects. That's the first thing. Second thing. The development of renewable resources, and I really have nothing against renewable resources, are an appropriate complement to our energy, but they can never, at least in the foreseeable future, be a pillar of energy, so it leads us to one addiction just to realize that, and that dependence on China. I have nothing against the Russian Federation, I have nothing against China, I myself am a proud member of a group of friends of China as one of the few coalition MPs, but just so that in a few months and years we don't sit here and say that China is our real enemy, as the United States of America says, for example, or I don't know what's on course right now. So just to realize where the development of photovoltaic technologies is taking us. Last but not least, please, the Czech Republic is an energy power. Let us not underestimate ourselves, we are a world energy power, let us go with this enormous potential that our ancestors have left us to manage. So far, I feel like we're going the exact opposite way, for example, by wanting to end the operation of thermal coal power plants, and by preparing a non-conceptional development of community energy, which will lead us to the ends that I've been suggesting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u87	I, too, thank you for keeping time. At this point, I have one final point in fact with which Mrs Berenika Peštová is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In any case, I also wanted to respond, as has been said here, that whoever supports or does not support Green Deal, so that he is the supporter of Putin, therefore, in essence, you were also directed at the first Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Timmermans, who himself said, who was a supporter of that green Europe and himself declared - rather coal power plants than storms in the streets. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u89	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, I have no further factual comment announced here. I would like to read the apologies: Mr Martin Major from 13:00 for business reasons and Jiří Mašek for the whole day for health reasons. At this point, I would ask Karel Havlíček to replace me in the management of the meeting, because at this time I am registered with a priority right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u90	Good afternoon. Madam Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová has the floor. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I would also like to comment on the amendment to the state budget, especially from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, at the same time I would like to introduce you to the various amendments that I have put into the system with my colleagues. But before I do that, I would like to open up a topic that has now resonated in television debates in the context of municipal elections right now, and that was bragging about the higher income of cities, municipalities and regions in the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. That is what I would like to say and I would like to go back to history, because I was mayor at the time of the roughly six thousandth city from 2006 to 2013, and I know how difficult it was in the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, of course, the crisis came there, to come out within the revenue part, and I know which parties, and we all know that, which at that time ruled, which now sits in the government, which took taxes from cities and municipalities. The municipalities had a budget tax determination of about 21.4% of the package and reduced it to 19.9 percent. It was the previous and the previous government, which levelled it up to 21,4% for cities and municipalities, and since this year the cities and municipalities have been receiving over an incredible 25 per cent within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, so cities and municipalities also have saved funds. And I was a little sad when they were just bragging about it in TV debates, and government MPs or government presidents of MPs or those parties said so. And I think it was a key step, and I'm sure I'll be very careful to keep an eye on the amount, or the percentage coefficient, which today cities, municipalities and regions, with which it increased, so that it's still the same or higher. I have some information, of course, that the negotiations are ongoing with the Minister of Finance. We all know that the RUD novel is always complicated because we have a bunch of money in our quotation marks, and if it changes in individual regions, cities, municipalities - a big city, a small village and so on - we always have to take away what we take from somebody, we're going to add to somebody. I would like to say that the amendment to the State Budget Act, which is presented here, so I said it at first reading that we were not present until March when we discussed the state budget, because we had a budget provisional, so we pointed out that the funds in the Ministry of the Interior are insufficient. At this point, therefore, the Ministry of the Interior is proposing to increase funds of 870 million to the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. When I register, and we all register it in the media, what is happening now in the context of illegal migration, as checks are currently taking place at the Slovak-Czech border, where there are about 500 policemen, the question is whether or not this amount will be enough, because I believe that this amount is also on the regional assistance centres, which are connected with the Ukrainian migration wave and, of course, with the impact of the war conflict in Ukraine. We said, and we say it all the time, that the most important and most necessary are those who help, and these are firemen and policemen. When I look at the proposal, into the change in the budget, there's a suggestion that there'll be 900 million to buy new vehicles for police officers. I'm sure it's been consulted by the police president. But there is another sum, and that is that for 300 million there will be a purchase of an object in Prague in Kunratice and it should be a hostel for police officers. So I took a step by asking the former police president if it was already a project that he somehow started, if he knew anything about it. He didn't have any feedback about it. I would certainly like someone to comment on this, or it will open up to the Security Committee, because 300 million per 300 beds - one bed per million crowns is coming out. Yes? So it's probably necessary, but I think we should have more detailed information about this, although I understand that not here at the House plenary, but definitely on the Security Committee. Then there's CZK 300 million to change the fire rescue force's technique. As I had the opportunity to listen to the Minister of the Interior, it was announced that it would therefore be linked mainly to the costs of firefighters who intervened in Czech Switzerland, Høensko, so it is clear that both voluntary and professional firefighters will certainly receive the funds that they had in the expenditure section, so it will certainly be very correct if they receive the funds for the change of technology. Well, what I'm terribly sorry about is that there isn't, in some way, a projection of what the Home Secretary keeps calling in, and thanking the firemen, thanking the cops, says that firemen and policemen deserve to be commended for being rewarded, but practically in the draft budget, I didn't find anything like that in the amendment. And it appears in the media all the time that what the Home Secretary said to us here was that the stabilization contributions would not go away, so the stabilization contributions were taken away from many police officers. We see the cops are leaving. The condition is constantly decreasing. So if we don't start to appreciate these people in some way, and we don't just say "thank you," then it might happen that we're going to have a very low number. Although last time, the Minister of Finance said during the first reading, that as the tables are set today, that means about 45,000 policemen, that he is convinced that the number could be smaller, because today we have approximately 40,000 police officers. In relation to what is currently happening, whether it is legal or illegal migration, I believe that, on the contrary, what is most important or one of the most important areas is security. And the only way I can ensure security is by having enough police officers, high-quality, professional police officers. That's just the way it is. [[12.20 hours]] So that the government came up with the idea of raising police officers and firefighters, but I'm pointing out to those who aren't uniformed, that means those who are civilian employees, so that it will increase them by 10 percent from 1 September, so it's definitely great, but the government didn't say, that B-- that she didn't give them the money. That means that... There's Mr. Drahoslav Ryba sitting over there, I'm sure he'll tell you because he talks to those firemen every day if they get it. They have to take the funds they have under the remuneration item, which means that only the funds will be transferred, and if they work well, they will have nothing within the remuneration line. And that is exactly what our amendment is about, because I think it is completely unfair to those police officers and firefighters, so that when they have increased their funds by 10 per cent since September 1st, they have the means to do so. With the cops, because we have about 10,000 policemen, about 1,000 firefighters, so I'm saying that it's CZK 130 million in policemen and CZK 110 million in firefighters. I think that's definitely the amount that the state budget is going to handle with these people. And then it's that the firefighters and policemen who are uniformed are the ones who intervene, and those who drive in order to help people, so they have increased by 700 crowns since 1 January. The original proposal was CZK 1,400. Mr. Home Secretary came as he won 700. So if I were in his position, there's no way I'd take it down, I'd fight to make it $1,400. But I was surprised that since September 1st, a group had increased, I understand that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, fought very intensively within the Labour Office, within those people who are very overloaded there and certainly deserved the increase very much, but I was surprised that police officers and firemen were not included in the group, and that they would not be increased until January 1, 2023. Again, I want to say that we're in everyday situations where firemen and policemen are the ones who help us, protect us, and it's one of the most important groups that we talk about all the time and say they're indispensable, they deserve huge respect, admiration, respect, but then we just say it - and that's it. We don't see the next one. That is why, with my colleagues, Jirka Mašek and Drahoslav Ryba, I have tabled amendments that correct this. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly criticised us for not proposing amendments to certain laws. When we tabled a budget amendment, neither of them was supported, I hope that in this case some opposition amendment will be supported. If he were supported by the Ministry of the Interior, and I assume that the Minister of the Interior will also support me, who certainly wants to fight for police officers and firefighters as much as I do, then the other two amendments affect police officers in that uniform and firefighters. We are simply convinced that they deserve the increase as well as 10%, even though the Finance Minister here said last time that the unions said that it was enough from January 1st. I don't think anyone in the union would fight for those groups that are needed, either. So I know it's the end of September, which means we've put the proposal in since October, and so they'll have the 10% increase. At the same time, we criticized here, and I think it was really pointless, and it was obvious right now in Hřensko that whoever helped there was volunteering firemen. And here I was saying the numbers of those tank-vehicle syringes that are after 25 years of service life, and how it is necessary to constantly change the cars, and therefore the next and last amendment that we're proposing is that volunteer firefighters have at least CZK 100 million so they can start competing with the cars so they can have the contribution. Because if you're from the individual cities and municipalities, if they don't get the donation, then a lot of them will make a decision, and they won't be able to change the technique. And if he's got a tank syringe 25 years old today, it's clear that he won't be able to leave the firehouse soon. So I'm sure it's necessary to put the money on these things. And I would very much like to ask for the support of the Minister of the Interior and, at the same time, I would like to ask that you really consider the amendments that we are going to put forward and that you look at them and support one of them. Firemen and policemen really deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u92	Thank you. Another of the entries, respectively, with a factual remark, is the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u93	I'll get back to the RUD. We often cannot change the past to the dislike of politicians. Yes, Madam Vice-President was mayor for seven years, four years for the Green Party and four years for the ODS. And if she criticizes the government between 2010 and 2013, then she was mayor of the government party. And if he remembers correctly, we changed the budgetary determination of taxes for the benefit of smaller municipalities, by the way, even Horní Slavkov, at the expense of the four largest cities. And the two changes. Down by two percent it was when we increased VAT, so we kept the same amount of money for the municipalities. You guys kept the VAT, and that logically increased the share. And the second change, the increase. Well, I don't know if the YES movement can count on it. So let's remember what happened. We in the House suggested that tax cuts be compensated for city and regional budgets - you were against it. I didn't have time to see how you voted, Madam Vice-President. I really don't know, through another Vice-President. The Senate as the upper chamber, where you had a minority, where they had most of today's government party, brought it back to us with this compensation for municipalities and regions, and it wouldn't have passed without it. So to accept that it was our government... It was not your government, it was Mr Babiš's parliamentary proposal, you voted against. In order for the tax reduction to pass, we have actually applied what today's government parties in the House and in the Senate want, we have compensated for tax evasion, reduced taxes, municipalities, cities and regions. And that's right, but it wasn't your fault. You were against it. I'm gonna find it in the tapestry of the petitioner's position and how you voted when we were in the House... Yes, when it came from the Senate - and we, the government parties with most of the Senate, pushed through - you had nothing left but to support this amendment with us. So good of you to support it. But coming here - "it was our doing, look" - is extremely brave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u94	Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u95	Thank you for the floor. Minister, you're mixing apples and pears here, unfortunately. So the budgetary determination of taxes, the fact that something took place to the big cities, doesn't affect it at all. I want to remind you that in about 2011, 2012, 2013 it took on about 2% of the city and municipalities within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. It's a huge amount of money from that package. [[12.30 hours]] You haven't raised anything for them this whole time. Make a call. I was at the Union of Towns and Villages, we all fought for it all the time, no one raised it. Only the last government raised it. And the last government gave those cities and municipalities not 21.4. She returned it to 21.4, but they have since 1 January this year 25,8%! [[He speaks very loudly, strongly.]] This means that all the taxes that will be collected, so cities and municipalities will get more than 25 percent of it thanks to the last government. Because she listened to those towns and villages, she followed them, she went to those parts! Where were you, Minister of Finance, on a visit to the city, in the village, in the county? I'm just asking you. I've never seen you before. When I was the chieftain, they came to me and talked to me about things and we solved a lot of things in those parts. So this is so unfair! And it's really picking me up from the chair, because I fought for it, even though I was the head of the Union of Cities and Cities, I fought for it, and I managed to fight for it. And don't think so, I also fought with Mr. Finance Minister Babiš and Secretary of Finance Schillerová. But we did it, and the cities and municipalities today have that increase of 25 percent, and I'm very happy about it, because those cities and municipalities have the funds and they can develop in some way. So I think you mixed the place up. And about the compensation bonus, that's also unfair, but that's what I'm gonna say in the next performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u96	With a factual remark, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u97	You can scream, Madam Vice-President, you're just wrong. Where did the government of Andrej Babiš propose to increase the budgetary determination of taxes for the benefit of the municipalities? Show me the House press. Nowhere. Nowhere. I've described a no compensation bonus, I haven't talked about it at all, you haven't understood. I was talking about compensation for a tax loss at the time of a reduction in personal income tax. And that was the Senate proposal that we approved when we got it back. And before it went to the Senate, we proposed it here as opposition MPs, and you opposed it as government MPs! So I'm raising my voice, too. You're just lying here! Show me the House Press, in which the government of Andrej Babiš proposed to increase the share of the municipal budget to 25 percent and more. Show me the House press and I'll apologize and say I was wrong if that's the case. But it wasn't like that at all. And second of all, I've been to those meetings. And I'm not gonna be here trying out which cities I visited. Well, I'm sure our county is bigger than yours, so there's definitely more communities there, there's no point in measuring it. I was just saying that in 2010-2013, when you were mayor of ODS, the main problem that the Union of Cities and Communities wanted to solve was to change the ratio inside. Well, you're nodding your head, aren't you? So I've been to all these meetings, I can pull it out. It wasn't easy at all, because I took away my own mayors, the big cities where the ODS mayor sat, and yet we did it. You don't remember the hockey stick, J, which we've been dealing with for years, and held (?) the government between 2010 and 2013? And I explained the reduction by two percentage points here. This was due to the fact that we increased VAT rates, so municipalities should have received nominally the same. And it was a deal. You then canceled one part, but you kept the VAT money because it was on the second pension pillar, they should have used the money from the VAT increase. It was cancelled, the money was left in the budget, then there was no reason to leave the reduced rate. So if anyone's mixing pears and apples, it's you. If anyone doesn't understand, it's you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u98	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u99	Well, Minister, you'll lose. You're gonna lose this because you're really mixing two things. You mix the distribution of the budgetary determination of taxes between cities, municipalities and regions and the amount of budgetary determination of taxes, how much funds from this package are given to cities, municipalities and regions. Yes? So I'll get it for you. It's always been in the draft budget where everyone put their money into it. And I'd like to say that your government took the two percentage points. I'm glad you admitted it here. Not yours, but your previous governments, the previous governments, where you were also represented. And I want to say one thing. So if I'm raising my voice here, I'm afraid I'm taught this way, if it bothers you terribly, but on the other hand, you're saying it's not true and you're still saying that I'm lying. Minister, I'll bring it to you in black and white. And I'm telling you, you're gonna lose it. You have reduced it from 21.4 to less than 19 percent for cities and municipalities, yes, you have admitted that, but this year it has returned to the municipalities, I speak, it has returned to the regions and since this year it has been more than 25 percent. They've never had that in history. But you didn't give it to them. That's what the last government gave them. And she gave it to them in the budget. Please, I can hear the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs here. You're confusing the budgetary tax determination with the compensation bonus that was in the covid. Those are two different things you're talking about. Yes? So if I'm willing to bet you here, Minister, and I'm telling you you're going to lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u100	Another point of fact is Minister Stanjura, then Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u101	The facts can't be lost. Let's make a deal. It'll be lunch break by 2:30. You have two hours, a team of your advisors, too. Bring it in at 2:30. Tell the House press from the last parliamentary term, in which the government proposed an increase in the share of municipalities and regions in the budgetary determination of taxes, and then I will say that I was wrong. I don't think there's a press like that. When you say "government" at the time, I say "government." You were in ODS at the time, and it was the ODS government, so it was our government. That's just the way it is. That you're in YES now and there was another government that was yours, so your government was 11 years old. We were eight years in opposition and three years in government, yes it had the opposite, it didn't exist yet, then eight years ruled, and you as one of the few were eleven years member of the government party. So don't say your government when it was our government at the time. Look who you ran for in 2010 and became mayor. Don't be shy about it. I respect that it's not your government anymore, but it was our government in 2010-2013. Mine and yours. Second thing. You're the only one who's talking about the compensation bonus. None of us are talking about that. I was saying compensation for tax reductions in the abolition of a super-gross wage. The motion came from the Senate. We made the same proposal in the House or similar in the House, and you voted against as an YES movement. And the law doesn't really change the government. Not ours, not yours. Laws change the House and the Senate when we're about to say who changed it. But I'm saying your government didn't even suggest it, the increase to 25 percent. That it's been since January 1st, that's not what I'm arguing with you about. So I'll wait until 14.30 for the House press number, where your government proposed 25 percent for shared taxes. If you bring him in, I'll publicly apologize here and say I was deeply wrong, and this is how we can close the dispute. Quite simply. In the meantime, I'm gonna use that hour and a half to find that House press returned from the Senate, and I'm gonna quote you on what came from the Senate and how we voted for it. And if anyone doesn't remember that, in fact, the condition of the upper chambers to reduce taxes was the adjustment of the proportion of regions, cities and municipalities, well, they just forgot, but that's just the way it was. Without that, the tax cuts would not have passed, and it was actually due to the upper chamber and the lower chamber accepted it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u102	The next enrollment is Minister Jurečka. I'm just saying, I've always let everyone have a few extra seconds so that it doesn't overcomplicate another factual one. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u103	I'll be brief. I have two things to say. The first one is - I remember the time that the material left the House, where the super-gross wage was abolished, went to the Senate. The then and current President of the Senate Miloš He pushed us, the opposition party leaders, who had a majority in the Senate, we sat with representatives of both the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities, looking for a way to set the right coefficient to adjust it back to compensate for the city and municipalities' outages. This was agreed, then even then the Prime Minister, your current President Andrej Babiš, was also with me when I was the President of the KDU-ČSL at the meeting in the office. We agreed that this would be a compromise, including an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, who was our priority again, so it will return to the House and this is how the House votes. That's how the procedure was then. My second point. I think it would be good to return to the substance of the proposal for this press, and this is an amendment to the State Budget Act of 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u104	Thank you. Another factual one, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u105	Well, I hope it's my last de facto comment on the Minister of Finance, Zbyněk Stanjura, who keeps trying to say that I was in ODS. She's trying to talk about me being the Green Party, so I just want to say that I was a non-party. The fact that I then entered the ODS after the lost regional elections and, as mayor, I won 40 percent in 11 entities and continued as mayor is the second fact. [[12.40 hours]] But do you know why I left the ODS? Because you weren't helping the towns and villages at all. Because I kept saying at the ODS that those cities and municipalities needed a higher budget tax determination, and you didn't listen to us at all, and you didn't care. So that was the main reason why I took this step. And you've already said it three times, and I think you can say it four times. Because the way you've been acting before, you're acting now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u106	Another is the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u107	I'm gonna try to explain this one last time. We are talking, on the one hand, about the relative share of taxes and also about the absolute share of taxes. At the moment when a government proposes to the House that the total package will either increase or shrink, the municipalities and regions are logically asked whether they will receive the same nominally. The first maneuver was an increase in VAT related to the second pillar of the pension system. At that point, the total package of taxes collected increased and we left the same thing nominally to cities and municipalities. That was down. Last year, the House and the Senate decided to reduce taxes on our citizens, so the total package of taxes collected has fallen. Some say 80 or 100 billion. And we actually made the same deal in 2012, so that the municipalities would be nominally the same. So if you're increasing the package and you want to have the same money, you're reducing the share. It happened the opposite last year. We reduced the total amount of taxes collected, and in order to keep the municipalities and regions nominally the same money, we increased their share. That's a simple mathematical reasoning. Both of these interventions to the RUD in 2012 and 2021 nominally left the municipalities the same way that municipalities and regions, their budgets, were not either favoured or disadvantaged by the decision on the general tax policy of the State. Whoever wants to understand it, who doesn't want to, one says it was really good, and the other very bad. But in the logic of what the state divides, both steps were the same. For the first time, thanks to the decision of the House and the Senate, the amount of taxes collected increased, and the second time it decreased. In both cases the municipalities, towns and regions remained nominally on those values. In a static model because no one knows whether the economy will grow or not. It seems fair to me and both approaches are actually the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. With another de facto Mr Haas. So far, it's the final deed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I, through your vice-president, Mračková Vildumetzová, to maybe save the search. Senate press number 11, Resolution of 9 December 2020, amendment of the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. So the plaintiff of the change of RUD was the Senate, not the previous government. Maybe this way, so we can all save ourselves the search. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u110	Thank you. I see another factual Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u111	I don't know how to explain it anymore. I hope that the mayors who are historically mayors sit here in this Chamber of Deputies and that they will be fair enough to say what the development of the budgetary determination of taxes towards individual cities and municipalities is. The fact that, before 2013, a tax rate of 21,4% took place for cities and municipalities to around 19 and some percentage. Those two percentage points are a lot of money under VAT and so on. The increase then progressed - I will bring it exactly to you for years - that it then returned to 21.4 percent and then it increased to about 25 percent. What you're talking about, the press, he touched on that super gross wage. When you looked at the draft budget for each year, always there, if there was an increase, the percentage, that just appeared in the draft budget. I'm not gonna argue with you here. You took it away from the communities, and the last government gave it back to them and increased it, and it deserves to be thanked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u112	Thank you. Mr Haas wants a real response, then Mr Stanjura is the Minister of Finance. He's first, so first, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u113	I think I get it. But that's really funny. So the Senate will propose a change of law, the House will accept it - and it is the government's credit. In this logic, Mrs Vildumetzová is right. And then, when I plan 100 billion revenue, I'm going to make a total withdrawal, and 75 percent of it, so 75 billion will end up in the state budget, and 25 billion will end up in the budgets of municipalities and regions, that's not a government decision. Neither this, nor the past, nor the future. It's simple math. You take the formula, you estimate the revenue, and that's how you divide it according to the tax budget. It's not all taxes, and we know that. I know you said, in the heat of the day, that out of all taxes, 25 percent. It's not, but we understand each other. From excise taxes, nothing goes into the city's budget and municipalities. It goes - I don't know how you figured it out - 9.1 percent of mineral oil tax goes to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. But that's not important in this debate. The important thing is that I look forward to the press in which the government of Andrej Babiš suggested an increase of 25 percent. I'm really looking forward to that. And you only have an hour and a quarter to find him. I didn't find him. That's how I could have been wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u114	Thank you. Mr Haas is with another de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. To Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, of course through you. Once again, perhaps I am performing on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies in the most correct way. My previous factual and factual points to one single point: the Vice-President's repeated claim that its government - I now mean its YES government, not its ODS government - proposed an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes from 23.58 to 25.84. Please, whoever you want, will check Senate press number 11 on the Senate website. It wasn't a yes to the government. Yes, the government has made other proposals, but this increase in the budgetary determination of taxes is contained in Senate press number 11. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u116	Thank you. Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová wants to respond with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u117	Well, Mr President, you must have listened badly to me. Let's do it again. The budgetary determination of taxes decreased to cities, municipalities and regions years ago 2013 - I will, of course, exactly look for the year - when the Minister of Finance here admitted that it decreased by two percentage points. I then said that in the years since the government, when Andrej Babiš was the Finance Minister, then Mrs. Alena Schillerová, there was an increase to 21.4. That means it went back to the same line as it was. Then it increased to 23.58 during the reign of Andrej Babiš. Since this year it is 25.84. Like you said, it was submitted in a super-gross wage. But if you're saying you guys deserved $25.84, you deserved $23.58 and $21.4? Yes, you've earned it. You put it in the draft budget. I'll bring it to you, of course. I hope we all understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u118	Thank you. Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u119	I don't get it. We are talking about the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes and not the draft of the state budget. By law, you must not change any other law in the draft state budget. So no bill on the state budget changes the budgetary determination of taxes because it rules out the law. Well, I don't understand how anyone can say that under the State Budget Act, we've increased the RUD. It's just not possible by law. This is not the political will of the majority or minority. That's just the way it is. [[12.50 hours]] Take a look at the Rules of Procedure. See how the draft state budget bill is being discussed. No other law shall be amended, neither on the budgetary determination of taxes nor on excise duties nor on income tax nor on EET. And now I could list all the laws that apply. So the sentence "in the state budget, our government has increased growth" is just wrong if I don't tell lies because it's just not possible by law. That's just the way it is. And if anyone insists that this is how it was, we're not gonna meet in the debate. I'll prepare for the 14.30th paragraph of the Rules of Procedure if the Vice-President doesn't believe that's how it is. You can't change any other law in the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. All the facts have been exhausted. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan has applied with priority rights. I'm just reminding you that we're going until 13:00, then it's an hour and a half break. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u121	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I am duly excused from today's meeting, but I have arrived in the House and, first, I want to respond to Mrs Vildumetzová, some of the sentences that have fallen on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, and then, if I am able to make it, I wanted to give you brief information about the situation at the Czech-Slovak border, because that is also linked to the budget, of course. And it will mean significant spending for the state budget. If we don't make it, I'll be excused by 5:00, and I'll be back in the House, and I'll be sure to take the floor. So now a few words on the budget. Madam Vice-President, I have good news for you. The CZK 300 million that you referred to as being included in the amendment of the budget as a replacement and addition of the techniques for managing crisis situations are not the funds associated with Hřensko. That's extra money. These are the funds that we have increased investment funds for the Fire Rescue Corps this year. And it was a plan before the tragedy that struck Czech Switzerland. In addition, CZK 148 million goes to Bohemian Switzerland from the budget reserve, and out of the CZK 148 million, CZK 68 million goes to volunteer firefighters. So that's extra money that we don't see in the state budget amendment. It is also certainly good news that all the firefighters involved, whether professional or voluntary, were paid rewards for their incredibly brave performance in firefighting, forest fire in Czech Switzerland. Likewise, the officers were paid overtime hours, which they served in an emergency condition, which, as you know, is beyond the law. So to say that we forgot about the police and the firefighters -- we rewarded them for the extraordinary performances that were here. The 700 crowns at the beginning of the year you talked about were basically the most of the professional groups, namely that 10 per cent of the rates for police officers will go from January to January, so it was the first ever agreement that we made with trade unions based on tripartite. It was with the union's approval, police and fire department's approval. It's important to say. And based on that, the valorization equation is working out for us that cops and firefighters don't get paid to leave this fall. If we increase by 10 per cent to the tariffs, so will the default rate for them next year be more interesting than it is now in the fall. And, of course, they have that information very well. Then you mentioned the dormitory. I take your proposal in detail on this subject on the Security Committee, but I would like to say one piece of information here. It's clearly convenient. The Minister of Finance and his deputy looked into this at our very detailed discussion. She's a refundable investment, because if we calculate how much money we give police officers to stay in Prague and how many out-of-country cops serve here, this is a refundable investment in a few years. It is a property in perfect condition, a property that does not require any adjustments. It's a former college facility that's been renovated. Those cops can move in, and at the moment, it won't cost us a penny. It is a long-term budget advantage. Like you, of course, I had to convince the Ministry of Finance, but I can prove this to you on the Security Committee in the detailed analysis that we have at our disposal. That's the information that fell here. Stabilization contributions. It's not like they don't pay off. There is only another philosophy of stabilization surcharges. The former philosophy was such that they were paid locally in particular. Now we want to pay them off, and we pay them off in general. This means stabilizing middle - aged police officers who are in danger of leaving the congregations in that philosophy. That's the thing we're dealing with. As well as Mr. Police President and I want to prepare a change in the salary curve so - not the volume, but the curve as such - that for the incoming police officers, for whom the starting salary of the second in competition with the various private sector is not very attractive, so we want to adjust the curve so that the starting salary of the police officer starts with a threesome, and the profession becomes more competitive at this point in the labour market. It's just a comment about the salaries and the fact that, of course, we think about policemen and firemen. We also think about restoring volunteer firefighter techniques. A generous subsidy programme is being prepared for the next year's budget, which will serve this purpose. Many units will be able to exchange technology on the basis of what we are now able to provide as Ministry of the Interior in Hřensko under the newly published grant title. Their technique in Hřensko has been significantly damaged, and if we add 300 million crowns to the investments to restore technology, which we have done, there is logically an agreement between professional and voluntary firefighters that the technique unnecessary by professional firefighters is proceeding to the level of voluntary firefighters. This all works. You did not mention that we had to raise, and I, the asylum and migration fund, mentioned that we had to raise, of course, the asylum and migration policy department, financially and personally, which is a matter which logically follows from the situation that we are currently in. Very quickly - the beginning of the situation on the Slovak-Czech border. At midnight, the controls started to pay. Mr. Police President and I were personally present there. It's a reaction from a government that wasn't too late. The government takes this as an extreme solution to restore controls on the internal Schengen border, however, at a time when the number of migrants captured since January in the Czech Republic was up to 12 000, the government had to respond. The measures appear effective after the first hours, both immigrants have been detained and smugglers have been arrested, who have tried to transport these people into our territory. We realize it's complicated, so far police officers and customs are on the scene. Let's see how things turn out. According to applicable legislation, checks are introduced in the first phase for 10 days. The government will deal with this at the next meeting. They can then be extended for another 20 days, and then, of course, this already requires negotiations with the European Commission on the notification of our measures. Thus, in the first stage until 8 October 2022 the border can be crossed to 27 designated places. Both green borders are guarded and border crossings are guarded. There are checks carried out. We are trying to minimize the impact on the inhabitants of this region, but of course it will make life uncomfortable. Today, I also discussed with representatives of the municipality in the region. The government's step across the political spectrum has been appreciated, counting on the inconvenience. We, of course, accompany this with negotiations with the Slovak Party and the Hungarian Minister. That'll be next week. Then I will negotiate with the Southern states on the protection of the external border of Schengen. We are putting pressure on the European Commission, on intensive negotiations with Turkey, and as the Presidency, we will make this the main issue of the ministerial meeting of the European Union's interior ministers in October. [[13.00 hours]] At this point, the Czech Republic has done everything it can to ensure the safety of the citizens of the Czech Republic. We realize that this is not a self-saving solution. However, we hope that they will clearly discourage smugglers, human disaster traders, from using the transit route through the Czech Republic as a route. I hope that in this case, as promised by the Security Committee, we will also have support from our opposition, there we have not been in any great conflict, and we consider this to be clearly a measure that leads to an increase in the security of our country's citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u122	Well, thank you. And since it's 13 o'clock, I'm interrupting negotiations until 2:30. And all I'm saying is that the Organizing Committee starts in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u123	Dear colleagues, we will continue to discuss the Government Bill amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, the House Press 284, second reading. We interrupted the discussion of this point in the general debate today before the midday break. I ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura take the position of the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff. I would like to inform you that the rapporteur, Josef Bernard, apologizes for health reasons, and Mrs Hana Naiclerová will take his place. Please, rapporteur, also take a seat at the rapporteur's table. We do not need to vote on this change because we are discussing the bill at second reading. I would remind you that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee, and the committee resolution was delivered as a House press 284/1. We will therefore continue the interrupted general debate for which I have been notified as the first Mrs Pokorna Jermanová, and Mr Šimon Heller will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u124	Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I can promise you that I will be brief to begin with. I will present four amendments here. Two are from the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development and two are from the chapter of culture. First of all, the two amendments by Mrs Dostálová, which I have the honour to present here. The first concerns the adjustment in Chapter 317 of the Ministry of Regional Development, where the expenditure of the general indicator is increasing... [[Minister Stanjura asks off the microphone for the number of the amendment.]] The amendment? It is Amendment 1281. I'm sorry, the minister approached me here, so I told him where to look. Therefore, the increase in expenditure related to the general indicator of expenditure and the specific indicator Regional development and tourism support of CZK 300 million. In Chapter 398, we then propose, in the general treasury administration, a reduction in expenditure overall indicator of total expenditure and a specific indicator of the government budgetary reserve of CZK 300 million. The reason for this is that, under the Regional Development and Tourism Promotion Programme, individual subsidy programmes are aimed at supporting the infrastructure of municipalities, especially smaller municipalities, which means up to 3,000 inhabitants. One of the subsidy programmes is the Support for Reconstruction of School Facilities. The municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants have very small budgets and investments in the millions of crowns are mostly beyond their capabilities. The development of school infrastructure and the increase in the capacity of kindergartens and primary schools are particularly important during the refugee crisis, as well as reducing the energy performance of buildings, and that is why we are proposing this adjustment. The second amendment with the number 1280 concerns the issue of housing. If you don't mind, let's start with a couple of current numbers, why we think it's necessary to modify this item. Construction offices issued 9,2 % less year-on-year permits, 28,6 percent less year-on-year flats, 6 percent less completed flats. The interest rate on really newly provided mortgage loans increased to 5.76 percent in August, and the decline in the volume of mortgages provided in the Czech Republic is noticeable not only in relation to the strong year 2021, but also in comparison to 2020 the August volume of mortgages provided is almost 60 percent. This year, from January to August, more than half of the activity on the mortgage market has failed. The year-on-year decline in the mortgage market by 78 per cent is dramatic, so in chapter 317 of the Ministry for Regional Development, we propose an increase in expenditure of the general indicator of expenditure total and specific indicator Housing support increase by CZK 300 million, in chapter 398 of the general treasury administration the expenditure of the general indicator of expenditure of the total and specific indicator of the government budgetary reserve by CZK 300 million. Under the Housing Support Programme, individual grant schemes are aimed at promoting housing policy, both for municipalities and individuals. Support for cooperative housing is also one of the subsidy programmes. Given current energy and refugee crises, it would be appropriate to focus on strengthening the housing fund, such as solving multigenerational houses, and thus allowing their owners to divide into more independent housing units. This amount could also be used to renew the Youth Programme, which was cancelled by Minister Bartoš, and it could also be covered by mortgage guarantees with a longer maturity. This is our proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development. I will then sign up for them in a detailed debate. And now to the field of culture. I have two amendments. The first concerns the area concerning the cultural components of the promotion of live art, in particular part of the State Support Programme for Professional Theatres and Permanent Professional Symphony Orchestras and Choirs. I propose an increase of CZK 200 million. The adjustment is then proposed in Chapter 398, which is the general treasury administration, where expenditure on the general indicator of expenditure is reduced by CZK 200 million in total and the specific indicator of the government budgetary reserve. Minister, it is House document 1315. At the same time, the corresponding parts of the bill, including the annexes, are being modified. The reasoning is quite simple. In 2021 700 million crowns were allocated to the budget of this programme. In 2022, this budget was reduced by CZK 400 million to just CZK 300 million. This fact is already a cause for concern about the dangerous trend of constantly reducing the budget to this area of culture. Savings through professional theatres, symphony orchestras and choirs are unacceptable and can cause irreversible damage in this cultural sector. This constant reduction of funds, high inflation rates and extreme increases in energy can also have a negative impact on the decision-making of local representatives, for which the government's approach could be an impulse to restrict the support of regional culture. My second amendment, House document 1316, concerns the contribution organisations set up by the Ministry of Culture, and there I propose to increase the contribution to the operation of the contribution organisations by CZK 200 million. The reasoning is simple, I have said it here several times, and this is a high rate of inflation and an extreme increase in energy prices. It has a major influence on the functioning of the contribution organizations of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic and this, of course, is negatively reflected both in staffing and in their own operation. For the record, maybe the Minister of Culture here said the National Theatre was very good or well managed. It's not true. There were over 200 million crowns in the last year and I assume that the deficit will be similar this year. And that is why I propose to increase the money in this chapter, and I hope that you will support me in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, Madame. And before I give the floor to Mr Heller, please bear with him. Mrs Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Vice-President Jana Mračková, came forward with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u126	Thank you for your word. I, of course, come up with this appeal by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura on the budgetary determination of taxes. I've prepared some very graphic materials that prove that what I've said here is true. So, Minister, it was 2012. [[It shows background material.]] The budgetary determination of taxes decreased from 21.4 to 19.93 for municipalities. Who was in government at the time? The government was ODS, TOP 09 with the support of STAN and Public Affairs. You were the Minister of Transport at the time, I think, at some point. Then it was 2015. The municipalities were calling very hard to see that they wanted the budgetary determination to return. So by law 391 - you have here directly 2015 Sb., with from 1. 1. 2017 increased or returned to 21.4. [[shows again]] Who ruled? Yes, CSSD and KDU-ČSL. Yes? Now we're getting to 2017. Act 260/2017 Coll. from 1. 1. 2018 he increased to 23.58 by Andrej Babiš's amendment. [[shows]] He raised the budgetary taxes of cities and municipalities to 23.58 by this law, okay? So it's clear at this point. And now we're getting to what you obviously wanted to get me to do here, that all those years that the former government has been increasing the budgetary determination of taxes, and under your government, it has been decreasing, including roads II. and III. classes where the regions did not receive a crown and received money only from 2015 until now when they received 30 billion. Thus, the last is the year 2020 which was not the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes, but it was the so-called tax package, where the abolition of the supergross wage occurred that, therefore, if there is a smaller collection of shared taxes, so that it has to be dealt with in some way. That means there's been a calculation that out of 23.58 it's going to be 25.84. The amendment that was here, although you certainly know who put forward and supported the super gross wage, it was YES, ODS and SPD, so I have the vote here too. The club of the ANO movement voted completely in favour, the ODS also, the interesting thing is that the pirát were against it, against some KDU MPs and almost all the members of the TOP 09. So I think, Minister, that the government of Andrej Babiš has increased the budgetary determination of taxes, and that is just the truth, and that is a fact. And I think it's unfair to say that you did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u127	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Karel Haas, then Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, is making a point of fact. And before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 14.30 for work reasons, Markéta Balaštíková from 14.30 for health reasons, Eva Decroix all day for work reasons, Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš from 14.00 for family reasons, Mr Milan Wenzl apologizes for the whole day for health reasons and Renáta Zajíčková from 12.30 to 14.00 for work reasons. Minister Nekula apologizes from the ministers at 13:00 for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u128	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. It's a good thing there are stews. I would like to quote from the log from the previous course of today's meeting. 12:30 p.m. Mračková Vildumetzová continues, I'm sorry, I quote from the tape screen. "It was just the last government that brought it on. And the last government gave those cities and municipalities not 21.4, she returned it to 21.4, but they have from January 1st this year 25,8. This means that all the taxes they collect, so cities and municipalities get more than 25 percent thanks to the previous government, because she listened to those cities and municipalities, she followed them, drove to those regions." This statement - I quote the 12.30 stew from today's House meeting - is a very good statement to the public. The proposal to increase the budgetary determination of taxes was made by Senate press number 11 of December 2020, not thanks to our government, in the words of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. That's all. Everything is checked out on the Senate website. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u129	Thank you. And now with the de facto Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u130	Well, I would like to thank Mr Haas, who precisely quoted it. That was our dispute, Madam Vice-President, through the Vice-President. You said your government arranged 25.84, and I said because I was at those meetings that it was a Senate proposal - yes, which you voted for. And that's completely different. And just as you described it, part of the government MPs and part of the opposition Members of the time voted in favour of the proposal, otherwise it would not have worked. The opposition never has a majority, and your coalition partners didn't vote for it. But I said it's unfair and untrue if you claim your government suggested it. I asked you to give me the number of the House press in which you proposed it, and as it turns out, I was right, such a House press just doesn't exist because it was proposed by the Senate. But besides - I'm sorry, I didn't have enough time because I still had some work responsibilities during the pause - in addition, we voted on it for the first time when it was in the Chamber of Deputies - a tax package. We already proposed compensation for cities and municipalities at the time because we assumed that this was the only chance for the upper chamber to support it. And that's when the government majority rejected it. So we're not arguing whether it's a good thing or a bad thing. We are arguing about it, and those tapes and the numbers of the press have made it clear to me that it was not proposed by the government at the time and that it was proposed by the Senate in its composition. And it was the only chance that we have to admit, the only chance that this proposal would go through, because if the proposal didn't pass in the Senate version, it wouldn't go through the House version after, or it wouldn't go through the House version. So you're wrong, you were wrong. I give credit to those who have proposed it or voted in favour of it, there is no dispute. But in this case, you can't say how you've been so savvy here today, you've said several times that it was because of the government. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u131	Thank you for keeping the time, Minister. Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová also signed up with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u132	Thank you for your word. Thank you for reading the log here. I don't know what he's saying. Because I have made it clear here that in 2012 the budgetary determination of taxes took place and also the contribution to the administration's performance, so many other things took place. Cities and municipalities, the regions above all, did not get on twos, threes and so on. And it was the last government and the last one that straightened it out and came back. I was showing you again that when the tax package was submitted here, it happened that by making a smaller collection of shared taxes - so you're telling me that you guys were supporting, I guess you were supporting, that's for sure when the government of Andrej Babiš came up with it, of course, that it increased to 23.58 or 21.4 over the years. Yes? So I said, over the years, it's back to 21.4. Not only did it come back, then it got even higher and then, since last year, it's the 25.48, where then the agreement came up, that by making a smaller collection of the shared taxes, so you saw that then we supported the Senate proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u133	Thank you. With a point of fact, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u134	We didn't argue about what the Vice-President just said. There's no argument about that from the start. I was just pointing out that the maneuver minus 2 %2 % back was related to the fact that the second pillar of the pension system was introduced and subsequently abolished. That means it's consistent with the maneuver from the 23.5 to the 25,8. At that point, thanks to the VAT increase, the tax collection increased and the same number of denominations remained for municipalities, towns and regions, and when the reduction of the supergross wage and the 15% reduction of the total amount of taxes collected, the coefficient increased. In other words, the reduction in taxes for employees was at the expense of the state budget, not at the expense of cities and municipalities. And so did we in 2012, when VAT went up, so we didn't do the same thing, we left the same amount of money for cities and municipalities. That wasn't a dispute. The dispute was that you said here that the government of Andrej Babiš suggested it, the 25,8. That's just not true. There's no explaining it. There can only be one truth. The motion was submitted by the Senate as a whole, perhaps even the few senators you have there voted in favour, I really don't know, but it was filed by the upper chamber as a whole, in which most of the opposition parties then had. There's nothing wrong with that. All we have to do is not take the authorship of the amendments to each other like this. Another debate is about who voted, and we all know that, we have heard that many times, and we say many times that we do not regret this vote as an ODS, that we were in favour of it and we would have been in favour of it today, we consider it a good step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. It is now Mr Šimon Heller's turn to be duly enrolled in the general debate. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apologies. Jan Berki apologizes from 14.30 to 16.30 for work reasons, Josef Bernard from 14.30 for health reasons, Patrik Nacher apologises from 10.30 for family reasons and Mrs Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková cancels her apology. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u136	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you Amendment 1330, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. At a time when all citizens in our country must save money, the state must set an example and set an example for all the Member States. That is why, together with four Members, namely colleague Michálek, Klíma, Žáček and Lochman, we have agreed and propose to cut the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic by 30 million. This proposal has two planes, one symbolic and one practical. First, symbolic - an alias not working president. Zeman doesn't work, he doesn't go to foreign visits, he doesn't take visitors, and he does his job maybe 15 percent. His neighborhood exploits this condition and spends heavily on nothing. It's not fair for everyone to save money and the castle party to continue as it was in the good old days. And that's what's happening, you all know what you're sitting here, including you, who always vote against even one crown collected by the Office of the President of the Republic. Second plane, practical, alias Balák the robber. The entire 30 million we propose to remove the Office of the President of the Republic, we want to take from the budget of Miloš Balák, who is responsible for the administration of the Lana branch. A man who has been convicted by finally independent courts for the manipulation of public procurement and, thanks to the strange grace of President Zeman, can continue to carry out his activities. For this reason, we want to take money from him in order to reduce the risk of manipulation, fraud, and other irregularities happening to our joint finances. We propose to move these funds to the drug policy programme, namely 12 million, and support for youth and sport activities, namely 18 million. As the Chamber of Deputies, we have the authority and responsibility to approve the state budget. Let's be responsible and collect the Office of the President of the Republic 30 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. Mr Viktor Vojtko is reporting with the de facto Member, preparing himself if there is no further de facto, President Jakub Michálek with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, because Ondra Lochman, who is one of the proponents of this proposal, cannot be here today, unfortunately, I have agreed with him that I will take his place with the support of this proposal. I think Šimon Heller said everything important. It has some symbolic plane, but from my point of view it also has an important level of where the money should go, and specifically the support of those interest youth associations and adictological services is no doubt needed at the moment. So I join you with the support of this proposal, and I ask you to support it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Volný is still reporting with the facts. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u140	My colleagues, my colleague, well, I just wanted to thank the two previous speakers here, Heller, and the other colleague, that I couldn't even tell them that I hadn't seen them at the speaker's desk. It's just a shame to see them in an amendment like this. Yes, they have a legitimate right to do so, but for what's happening around us, around energy, around Ukraine's anex, I think it's such a tiny thing to suspend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u142	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the fact that the President of the Republic's Office decides about millions of public taxpayers' money is a decisively condemned person is a tiny matter that it remains there even after the court has finally decided that it is guilty of the manipulation of public contracts and that it has robbed the state of stone mining. I really do not think that it would be a tiny matter, and on the contrary, I think that the fact that we are proposing this amendment is a rather extraordinary situation, because the person who has been finally convicted remains in office, so he has been given three years in the prison with security and is supposed to continue to decide on millions. I don't think that's right. And I even think that there were members of the opposition, yes, who criticized the pardon as inappropriate and criticized that public money was still being decided by the final convicted manager. Of course, we could continue the story further, recalling that at a time when money was being stolen from the castle, the man received an extra 300,000 extraordinary reward. This is simply not how public administration is supposed to work and cannot. And if citizens are to trust us, we must reject this matter as completely unacceptable. Therefore, I consider the proposal for amending the budget to be principled and correct. Of course, before submitting it, we checked in the forest management reports that it had enough money in bank accounts for normal operation. We do not want certain amounts to be raised to do this in some way, for example, by employees who do their job properly. Well, that really shouldn't happen. That is why we have specifically applied this to those investments that are included in the forest administration. Now, briefly to what we've decided to redirect the money to. They are both adictological services. I think that the Prague Castle, Mr. President, does not set a very good example of addiction in terms of alcohol and other diseases, and let's say that others, as my colleague Schillerová says, vices, set a good example for our society, and that if we put them on adictological services and helping people who are in this difficult situation, they will do a really good job. We also want to support our future, young people, young people. That's why we're putting more of that money into the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I would like to conclude by thanking Deputy Minister Jiří Valent for his cooperation in preparing this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u143	Thank you. Mr Šimon Heller will now speak with a point of fact and be prepared by Berenika Peštová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u144	Mr Volný, through Madam President, I am here by coincidence, if you do not remember me, I was sitting here on Tuesday at the news desk with the Minister about the copyright law. But I don't know how you're doing with attendance. If you're inspired by your chairman, that's your business. Keep one thing busy. The only proposal you made was to reduce the budget of a number of chapters, including the President of the Republic - 11 million. You probably read it wrong, how it works, because it adds up, so then you got scared of how everyone voted against this proposal. But your only amendment, which has been tabled here in the House for a whole year, was precisely to reduce the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic. So I expect you to be enthusiastic about supporting this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Berenika Peštová, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would also like to respond to Mr Michálek. I'm glad you're pointing out how you're gonna cut the money all over the place. Seems very populist to me. We're going to discuss the service bill tomorrow, so I hope you'll be as strong as you've been. As far as the EET is concerned, I also expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Michálek is no longer reporting in. Okay. Now, in the general debate, Mrs Klára Dostálová, who is signed up, will speak. He's not present. Mr. Jiří Kobza is also registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to make two amendments to the Government amendment to the State Budget Act. This is House documents number 1311 and 1312. In the first of these, 1311, I propose to withdraw one billion crowns from the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely from the expenditure indicator contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad. This is a budget item that is enormously and unfairly high in the current situation and time. Moreover, the Supreme Audit Office stated years ago that much of this money has been spent in the long run inefficient, for example, on international organisations where we are no longer active as a state, and this brings nothing to our country. I've called for a correction by the Ministry that hasn't yet happened. I propose to split these funds in half and, after half a billion, move it to the chapter of the General Treasury, namely to the items of the reserve to deal with crisis situations, to prevent and eliminate their consequences. The second half of the reserve for extraordinary expenses under the Integrated Rescue System Act. These items have been highly undervalued in the long term, as has been seen recently during the destruction of a large fire in Hřensko and other similar events. In the second proposal, I propose to withdraw 65 million from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely the element of transformation cooperation. These are completely unnecessary activities of a rather harmful nature. Transformation cooperation is used for indoctrination ideological projects carried out in foreign sovereign states in order to influence political developments there. This is therefore a completely unfounded waste of Czech taxpayers' money. Then I propose to move these funds to the chapter of the General Treasury. Specifically, 60 million into the expenditure indicator reserve for extraordinary expenses under the Integrated Rescue System Act, which, as I have already mentioned, is very underfunded. In addition, 5 million to the social expenditure indicator - compensation, non-profit and similar organisations. Specifically, for the Czech Freedom Warriors Union, to which budget subsidies for this year have been reduced to zero for no reason, which is literally liquidation for this organization. It is an organization whose existence and activity is in the high public interest, because it cares for the legacy of the Czech and Czechoslovak resistance against Nazism and the genocide occupation of our homeland by Germany, cares for the memory and graves of the heroes of this resistance and actively performs in favour of maintaining undistorted historical memory and, above all, against forging the history and results of World War II. Thank you for your attention and please support my proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Lucie Šafránková is now enrolled in the general debate, and Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u150	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present my amendment to the state budget for this year with the number of House document 1307. This is an increase in expenditure in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by CZK 3 billion. This is particularly the case after one billion crowns in expenditure indicators, the contribution to care under the Social Services Act, disability benefits and salaries of employees and other payments for the work done. The current antisocial government immediately cut off budget expenditure intended to help disabled citizens, which I consider totally unacceptable ruthlessness, especially in view of the fact that these social benefits have been catastrophically low in the long term and, on the contrary, the basic cost of living is rising sharply. Similarly, it is with the salaries of social workers, which the Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government immediately froze after his arrival and does not plan to increase their basic tariff component for next year either. It is an absolute outrage in the face of the constant overloading of employees of labour offices, the Czech Social Security Administration and social workers. I propose to move these 3 billion to the Department of Labour and Social Affairs from the expenditure indicator to the European Union budget in the chapter of the General Treasury. This appropriation is, in the long term and in the current critical situation, particularly unjustifiedly oversized and it is much more important to use this money to help our socially vulnerable citizens. Thank you and I beg you for the future support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u151	Thank you, Madame. Mr Ivo Vondrák is now in office, and Mrs Štefanová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to propose a change in the budget here, which concerns universities. I would like to say that I am not only here now as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, but also as a former president of the University, who has been through what I might call the Cathar budget of universities. We went through a really dramatic fall in the college budget between 2008 and 2014, which was actually very significant, and I'm a little afraid that universities are currently in a similar situation. We are all aware of what is happening in the field of energy prices, but we are also aware of what may not be fully visible. We have helped very strongly regional education. Today, the average salary of a teacher in regional education is about CZK 45,000. Unfortunately, what I would call the difference between the financing of wages and salaries of teachers of regional education and universities is beginning to appear. In addition, the energy crisis, the demands on higher education budgets, which, of course, must compensate for these energy prices, is entering into everything. [[15.10 hours]] I have taken the liberty of preparing two amendments. I respond to what was said on the school committee from the mouth of representatives of the Ministry of Education. The universities lack 5 billion crowns. That was heard from Deputy Secretary Miller's mouth, and I would take the liberty of responding to that. The first option is, I would call it extensive, that is, let's try to solve this problem, solve it by covering all the needs of universities within the framework of this budget for 2022, and that is why I took the liberty of presenting a proposal together with Professor Rais to increase the university budget by CZK 4.2 billion. Or let us try to reflect what Mr Miller, the Deputy Minister of Education, is saying, that we would do some knocking this year, quote precisely, and give it an increase next year to be adequate, and this year at least compensate for the energy costs that will be double what was expected. So my second amendment, which we are submitting together with Professor Rais and engineer Fridrich, speaks of 800 million, which is the absolute minimum that universities will need from the point of view of compensating for the costs of increasing their energy prices. I would certainly not underestimate this because, above all, high schools of technical nature need an infrastructure that is energy-intensive. It is not only the fields of strong current, fields that are really energy-intensive, but it is also a supercomputer center that we have today in Ostrava, which requires really high demands on energy. So I would like to propose two amendments, which I will then put forward in a detailed debate. One is therefore extensive, which speaks of CZK 4.2 billion, and I am convinced that unfortunately it will not pass, even though it would, of course, solve the problem of universities and universities, but at least agree to help our universities and universities with 800 million crowns, which will help them compensate for the cost of increasing energy prices. Once again, these are two amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u153	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Member Iveta Štefanová is now signed in, and Mrs Marie Pošarová will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u154	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also present here my amendments to the budget amendment 2022 and justify them briefly. One. I propose to increase the state budget expenditure for 2022 in Chapter 335 - Ministry of Health by CZK 400 million for research and development in health care. The financing of research and development in the Czech Republic is long-term and needs to be changed. In addition to preventing the tide of scientists and researchers from studying abroad in the Czech Republic, it is also necessary to strengthen the ability to create enough medical devices and medicines for Czech citizens in the time of crisis. Secondly, I propose to increase the expenditure of the state budget for 2022 in Chapter 335 - Ministry of Health by CZK 65 million, by returning the financing of regional sanitation stations to an earlier level, i.e. by increasing CZK 65 million of the specific indicator of government expenditure. In fact, the budget for 2022 has reduced the financing of regional sanitation stations, although it has proved important in recent years to play an important role in times of crisis. Therefore, I propose to return the resources for the salaries of regional health station staff with this amendment. Both of these proposals are read in the system as House Documents 1334 and 1335. Detailed reasons are included in these documents. Thank you for your attention and please support these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u155	Thank you. Mrs Marie Pošarová is now registered. Mr. Vladimír Zlínský will be ready. And before I give the floor to the lady of the house, I'll read an apology. Jaroslav Bašta apologizes at 17:00 for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u156	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you my amendment to the Government's proposal to amend the State Budget Act. This is House document 1313. I propose here to withdraw one billion crowns from the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, namely from the expenditure indicator of the subsidy on renewable energy sources, whose volume the government wants to increase by an inefficient CZK 6.6 billion by this amendment, even though it has promised to reduce these inefficient public subsidies to private earners gradually. In the current budget, 19 billion are allocated to this item and the government wants to increase it to CZK 25.6 billion by 25 percent. Why? I propose to move this one billion crowns to the budget chapter for the Ministry of Regional Development to the spending indicator for the State Investment Support Fund, namely to support housing loans to our working families in the framework of the housing project. This is an increase in the amount of funds that have unfortunately been exhausted during this spring. A very socially important and necessary loan project for young husbands and families to acquire or reconstruct housing, which is currently a matter of paramount public interest. People need to live, of course. Given the very low and poorly planned amount of budget appropriations under this item, this project can only benefit from a very limited number of young families. Demand here significantly exceeds the offer and currently does not work at all, which is really a problem. Thank you. I will then sign up in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u157	Thank you. Mr Vladimír Zlínský will now appear. Mr. Zdeněk Kettner will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will mention my evergreen here, this is the preparation for crisis situations, because I think that this question is long-term both thoughtfully and financially underestimated and undersized. So given the situation in our country, in Europe and in the world, it can be assumed that there will be further destabilisation of energy supplies in the Czech Republic. This instability can result in another massive increase in energy prices, which will severely affect our industry and the quality of our citizens' lives. In addition, because of the overload of the power grid, there may be repeated interruptions in electricity supply, and what is worse, possibly a long-term failure in electricity supply, the so-called blackout.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u159	[[He's coming in.]] Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt. Quiet in the left side of the hall, please. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u160	Thank you. This will have a devastating impact on the functioning of our society within a few days and will most likely lead to a collapse or breakdown of civilization. It is therefore necessary to try, by all means available, to prevent or mitigate the effects of this inzult. The current prepared measures do not include a longer-term interruption in the supply of electricity, which is why this needs to be addressed seriously and a detailed crisis plan should be developed for both crisis management and public authorities and, above all, for citizens, how to deal with this situation as best as possible. [[15.20 hours]] It should be considered that food and drinking water supplies will have to be provided, which I consider to be one of the biggest problems that will arise, because within a few days the supplies will probably just collapse. And especially with the drinking water, I would add that the lack of drinking water can become a source of pandemic. It will be necessary to ensure sufficient thermal comfort for the population, because, as is often the case, it will occur at the worst possible time, that is, when it is cold. The basic functioning of the state administration must be ensured. The functioning of the media, because let's be aware, I've already said this place isn't going online, there's not going to be a TV, there's not going to be a radio, because everyone has these power-based receivers. I am very worried that health care will collapse, because hospitals have generators, they are ready for it, but they are not ready for longer-term blackouts that will last a few days. Furthermore, what is important is the remediation of biological waste, because it can also be a source of infectious diseases. And the mental resistance of the population, but especially to ensure safety and order. If this fails to ensure, an outbreak of epidemics, civil unrest, looting, and other forms of social violence and chaos can be expected. It is therefore necessary to consider and act in advance in order to prepare for this situation in advance, at a time when we still have the means available to help us cope with this situation, when we can still teach all citizens how to prepare for this situation, and also to prepare for this in information and material terms, both from the point of view of the state authorities, which will be necessary to preserve the functioning of our society's structure. The lack of acceptance of this fact seems to me to be irresponsible gambling with our future, which is so shrouded in dense mist if the current development continues. I therefore ask you to support my Amendment 1279, which - in the development and implementation of these measures, will need to invest the appropriate funds to address those requirements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zdeněk Kettner will now appear, Mr Igor Hendrych will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u162	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, here in the House, we are a cross-section of different professions, professions and so on, we have teachers, police officers, engineers and so on. And I'm sure we agree that we're professionals in our field, and we definitely should, if we're to make decisions about things that aren't in our field, we should listen to the experts involved. So I am here now acting not as a member of the SPD, but as a professional with 25 years of experience in the field of education. My two amendments, which have not been supported by the Committee on Budgets, have their logic and are based on practice. When you ask the representatives of primary schools, secondary schools, kindergartens, they have a huge problem. In this budget, the classic budget, I have already proposed an increase to ONIV, there has been a situation where money has not been reduced, but one billion has been transferred from public schools to private schools, without compensation. I'm talking about the so-called onions. To explain to those who are not completely oriental. Onivka is a certain drawer, where it is precisely stipulated by the law what directors from this drawer are supposed to pay. And they can't otherwise, they just have to pay for it, for example, the first 14 days of vacation, teacher training, aids and so on. So it has to be paid. But that total pile of money went down a lot. I've already pointed out that this is going to be a big problem, and my words have been confirmed. The only way the directors can react is if they can apply from a pile of wages to a non-reciprocal salary component, which, of course, the directors do. Then, of course, there are certain founders who are competent enough to understand the problems, so even within their competences, they increase the finances themselves. But we're in a situation where even the founders won't have a place to touch in a moment. That means those directors are going to get into an unsolvable situation, they're just going to get to the bottom. Thus, the first step will be to reduce the non-reciprocal salary component for educators. This means that all motivations will be lost to do something beyond their work duties. Why would I work three or four more hours in the afternoon when I finally get exactly the same money as a colleague who just goes home when he falls? So, yes, my amendment did not support the Committee on Budgets. But please, in a situation where the so-called government axe is growing in some way, I don't think it's a very good idea to really save for the future of our nation, which is education. Regardless of the fact that my proposal, please, is not an increase, my proposal merely compares the situation to the level of 2021. And we've already got 2022, so we certainly can't talk about any increase. And my second amendment is from a similar case. That means, I very much acknowledge that the government has actually fulfilled its intention to raise money to the salaries of non-teaching workers. However, if you look at the tables where the salaries are precisely defined, even after the increase, some employees will still be below the minimum or guaranteed wage limit. The result? The director's gonna have to level their salaries on the spreadsheet, and it's gonna be from the non-reciprocal salary file again. That's why I made these two proposals. And we can really get into a situation where those directors start leaving us because they won't actually be able to fulfill the legal component of their work and their powers. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u163	Thank you. Mr Pavel Klíma came forward with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u164	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just - and my colleague Kettner has the right to submit this amendment - add just what he has here, how he has mystified you about ONIV and the principal's drawer. So know that it does not apply, perhaps you just misjudged, through Madam President, my colleague, that the first 14 days of leave are paid, so you were about to say the first 14 days of illness. And if you really have an ONIV drawer like this, a pay drawer like this, the moment you waste the first 14 days of your life on the little one, you're not gonna miss this one. And then it's legitimate for you to make up for the waste money, that's just a perfectly normal procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u165	Thank you. Mr Igor Hendrych will now appear. They'll be ready - sorry, yes, please, Mr. Ambassador. And now, Mr Kettner will come forward with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u166	Thanks for the heads-up. Yes, it really was a misfortune, I wasn't talking about leave, I was talking about sick. I completely agree that moving is completely legitimate. I was talking in the sense that even the other pile isn't infinite, we have some kind of final maximum value. And as I was saying, at the moment, this pile is complemented by the founders. For example, I also have to commend our founder in Teplice, who does not really have a problem with this education, and he is a colleague of the ODS who actually puts the funding there. But I say we get in a situation where there won't be any more funding in this pile. And even the founder, who really is conscious and wants, will somehow have nothing to take from him. That's what I was building on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u167	Thank you. And now for the general debate is Mr Igor Hendrych, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, I will first read the formalities and then go into their reasoning. So I propose in my amendment number 1317, which I, together with my colleague, Mr Aleš Juchelka, submitted to Parliament's press number 284 - and now the formalities. In Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, expenditure on the general indicator of total expenditure and the specific indicator of the benefit of state social support and foster care is increased by CZK half a billion. In Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, expenditure on the general indicator of total expenditure and the specific indicator of the government budgetary reserve is reduced by CZK half a billion precisely. At the same time, the corresponding parts of the bill, including the annexes, are being modified. And now some kind of justification. Well, you surprised me a little, Mr. absent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, in this morning, because I don't know if all my colleagues have registered this, but you have tabled your own amendment, a parliamentary proposal, where you are essentially proposing to increase the budget by CZK 7 billion in the chapter on social matters. And among other things, you're essentially proposing the same thing as regards the housing allowance, what I'm proposing, and what I put into the system yesterday at 22 o'clock. You sent it to the system today, I believe, at 9.31. You were more generous, Minister, because you proposed about 35 million more than I did, but basically we agreed. I designed half a billion, and you proposed half a billion and 35 million. It's good that we agreed. We even agreed on the reasons. I am writing the same thing as you in your amendment, and I am writing that the normative costs have actually increased and that the range of beneficiaries is actually increasing and that the amount originally proposed by you to Members sometime in the second half of August is actually undersized. I'm glad you figured it out. I'm just surprised you didn't know that in August. By the time you sent it to the MPs, you didn't know? They can't count that in the ministry? I mean, it's not just this thing, it's this changeling of mine, there are other proposals that total 7 billion crowns. You didn't know that? The Committee on Budgets, at least according to the information I have, did not discuss it either, and even on the Committee on Budgets, this proposal was essentially not formulated and was not proposed by the Minister's parliamentary proposal. Now, today, September 29th, you're basically adjusting this by such a high amount. If it were half a billion or I don't know, yes... but 7 billion? That's really, really, I think that's very unconceptive and unsystemic. However, I am going back to what I said at the very beginning, that I am glad that we agree, I am glad that we count exactly the same, or roughly the same, that the extra half a billion is needed there, because we do not know how many of these people will register by the end of the year. And if you've taken this social policy tool as one of the best tools within the Umbrella Against the Delicate, which you're still talking about, it's logical, of course, that you promote it all over the place, and so on, it's logical that I assume that more and more people will draw on it. So even though you are failing, and even though the estimate which is from the Ministry, which I have been hard to climb from, i.e. personally, when I myself prepared my own amendment, assumes that only 30 percent of the eligible population will receive the benefit anyway. And I'm here 11. 1. this year he first appeared behind this counter and I talked about the fact that last year 20 to 25 percent of the legitimate population received it and that this instrument is not appropriate at all to address, say, increased housing costs for low-income families in the Czech Republic, that they are with this international experience, that it is written about by foreign literature. The first mention in foreign literature is in the 1930's, that the benefits of state aid or various social benefits are not drawn. And even in 2001, a colleague published a research report from the Prime Minister, which I appreciate professionally, Professor Petr Mareš from the Faculty of Social Studies of Masaryk University, when in 1996, among other things, I will not be here to tell you all the data I have or have at my disposal, namely, only 39 percent of the authorised dose. And today, we are in a situation where it takes significantly less and significantly fewer by the end of the year. Although I would very much like this social policy program to work, or this instrument, unfortunately, it doesn't work. We have proposed other solutions that you have not adopted or have not taken note of, or have not considered appropriate. So much for that. I will then formally sign up in the detailed debate on this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u169	Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka will now speak in the general debate. Mr. Ondřej Babka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. I will just add this to my previous speaker, because Minister Jurečka wants to increase this year's budget deficit by another CZK 7 billion to CZK 337 billion, and so far we have the report that it is going to go to social benefits and unemployment benefits, so this government is probably going to assume that there will be higher costs of unemployment support, that it is probably because the support for entrepreneurs is not as much as they would have imagined, and really some businesses are really starting to be on the brink, some maybe they are going to start leaving the Czech Republic, and so they're probably going to let go that maybe the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is already counting on this, and we're going to see the amount of CZK 1 billion at the exact same level of unemployment of 3.3, 3,4, 3.2 percent, about one billion right here within this amendment. It's just a short addition, I think we'll talk more about it on the Social Policy Committee, maybe even more about the third reading. My amendment, which is number 284 to the House press, House document 1331, deals with what we say here from different sides, and that is the underfinancing of social services. The Association of Regions and the Association of Social Services Providers asked this government to finance social services amounting to CZK 4.5 billion. The government put the limit on CZK 3.2 billion. We believe that it is not enough that social service providers will have to pay the money for more expensive energy, and so on, social services from their own, so that some of their budget will fall out of their budget, for example, investments in the chieftains, in ammunition, not to mention. Therefore, my amendment increases the financing of social services by 1.3 billion to the level of CZK 4.5 billion. Thank you so much for your attention, and then I will turn to it, the House press, in a detailed debate. [[document]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u171	Thank you. And now I'm gonna ask Mr. Babka... Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, we have a factual remark from the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u172	I wanted to ask Mr Juchelka, through you, Madam Vice-President, if he had found out how the ratio of funding for social services was changing. I know the material, I've spent quite a lot of time analyzing the demands of the regions in particular, but I think it's very important in the debate on the social services budget to look at in time not only at the absolute amounts, but at the ratio of the state budget, regional, or municipal. I think that this is very important because I think that it is not possible for the ratio to go against the state budget in the long term, or that the proportion of funding from the state is higher than it used to be, because, unfortunately, the state budget condition is worse than the condition of regional and urban budgets. This is not a criticism of urban and regional budgets, but a commendation to make it quite clear. And I think, in addition to assessing social services in the whole context, both the A network and the B network, I'm sure the MP knows what he's talking about, so we're supposed to be monitoring the ratio, because it's just as important to the debate as the Social Services budget, whether in 2022, or in a few weeks in the budget for 2023. Because without that, the debate is, I'd say, one or two possible sources of funding. [[15.40 hours]] Likewise, when we look at new sources of funding, which have been made by some executive channels, some legislative ones, they are not fully reflected in the budgets of social services as a whole. Now I don't say at individual social services facilities. And I think that's what we have to judge before we always tell the state to call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u173	Thank you. Mr Juchelka wants to respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u174	Thank you, too. Of course we do, we are actually living here every year in any budget and in this amended one, probably even for that year 2023, the Martyrium, when we constantly say that we have to finance those social services that have a little bit higher costs than the state budget can bear. I understand. Some regions may say that, of course, it will be quite all right, that, on the contrary, some of their social services are in surplus. On the contrary, I believe that the increase in energy prices, and indeed the financing of the 3.2 billion, came ten minutes after 12 o'clock, because some social services were already prepared with their statements, some social services were already prepared to slim down their apparatus, their costs and so on. So let's think about how in the future, and I'm not defending it, on the contrary, let's discuss not having to discuss this Martyrium here every year at the microphone, let's do some like maybe a multi-annual plan. I'm not defending myself. On the contrary, the covid here somehow slowed down all these discussions. However, we are talking at this point about the current situation in 2022. It's not pink in any way. And I understand you have to save on all sides. However, we now know that some social services, for example, are so undervalued in terms of wages and salaries that some people are leaving there. They also go to the nonprofit sector, which is paid more, where they take care of the good, motivated clients. And of course, the homes of seniors, field services, caregivers, and so on, I really think they're losing it at the moment, and it needs to be funded. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u175	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Stanjura, will be prepared by Mr Navrátil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u176	But there's no dispute about that. That's why the plus 3.2 billion are designed in the novel. Let us say that the biggest unknown in this year's social services budget was so-called individual projects. This problem should no longer exist next year. That was the biggest Jane Doe. And, of course, we sent the draft budget here on February 11, 2022. I was talking about it in my first reaction today. At that time, no one anticipated where energy prices would get and where inflation would get. That's what I think we can agree on. And we can open January or February comments, estimates of analysts, articles relating to this area. That is why we decided after the debates that were not easy, even after the debate with the Association of Regions, we decided on a sum of 3.2 billion crowns. But I didn't even want to talk about the absolute amount of the affair. If the Member is sure that the same ratio plus 3.2 billion quite raises the budgets and the payments to the social services needed not only the state but, for example, the regions. Maybe it's different in every county. I just don't know at this point. If I knew, I'd read it here and compare it. I don't have the information. But if anyone's suggesting that the state give more, I think it's fair to ask if even the regions... Because then the increase, if it were still the plus 1.3 billion, it's roughly, let's say, roughly 20 percent of the increase in the state's contribution this year against the approved budget. If so, many of the founders of these social services have agreed to increase their payments to 20% from their own resources, such as those of the state. Maybe, maybe not. But it would be good before we vote on it, we don't need to know today, but before we vote on it, it would be good, and I will also ask Minister Jurečka to make this statistics available to us from his post. And I think it's one of the clues when we decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u177	Time, Minister. Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Jiří Navrátil will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u178	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will join the Minister and, through you, the honourable Member, Mr Juchelek, who is currently expressing himself quite well as the shadow minister. Let us remember that because the government had already put the numbers in the regions, we were able to decide in September's councils. Many of us are also regional representatives here and know how the principle of financial distribution from Chapter 313 goes to the regions. We are very happy for that, because it enabled us to tell the providers how much money they were actually getting by the end of the year. If we raise any amount in the context of Chapter 313 to social services today or at any time today, we will not be able to decide on it before the December councils and most of the money will come back to us because social service providers will not be able to use it. But what's important? Let us remember that, after many and many years, the payment decree has finally increased. A úhradový decree that no one here has wanted to touch for years. As a result, we have put an additional billion into the system, and that is the money that has also helped regions and social service providers. And when we ask about the ratio, for example, the Moravian-Silesian region gained less than 2.7 billion from the state budget, the region accounts for about 300 million crowns, and the municipalities and cities in our region share less than one billion. The one billion is chosen only because the regional council agreed to oblige all contracting authorities to pay 30 and 20 percent of the compulsory payment of the legitimate loss. If all regions do this, there's a lot more money in social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u179	Thank you for keeping time. With a point of fact, you're no longer applying, Mr. Juchelka? [[No.]] We will therefore give the opportunity to Mr Ondřej Babek, who will speak in a proper general debate. Please, you have the floor. And Mr. Oldřich Černý will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u180	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Please allow me to speak here on behalf of our shadow minister for sport, colleague Jan Richter, and to say a few words about the current situation in sport and to justify our amendment, which we have recorded in the system under number 1288 as an amendment by Jan Richter and Andrej Babiš. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where a lot of sports clubs, bodybuilding unity, but also some sports unions are facing liquidation. And unfortunately, the current government is idly watching this. I have already spoken in detail about the situation in sport on Tuesday, when we were discussing the amendment of the NSA law, which is the only thing so far that five coalitions are interested in, i.e. the power arrangement at the NSA. Our amendment concerns the National Sports Agency, Operation and Maintenance Programme, which is existentially important according to surveys for more than 80 percent of sports clubs. In the survey of the Czech Union of Sport, more than 500 sports clubs owning or operating an internal sports centre responded, and the conclusions are as follows: over 60 percent of clubs will get increased energy spending into existential problems, for more than 80 percent of clubs it is existentially important to obtain funds from the grant program of the National Sports Agency titles. Clubs averaged their operating costs by more than 130 percent compared to last year. There are clubs that pay several million more than last year. They're basically simple numbers. Last year, the sports pitch applied to the National Sports Agency for CZK 1 billion for energy, with 50 percent participation, which means that the cost of this energy could have been up to CZK 2 billion. If the clubs pay 130 percent more on average this year, according to the survey, they will have up to CZK 4.5 billion for energy consumption this year. The 385 million that the government is adding in this amendment will not be enough for a grant program called Operation and Maintenance. Moreover, there are, of course, other operating costs in addition to energy within the Operation and Maintenance Programme, but that is only a minimum amount compared to the money that clubs need for energy. [[15.50 hours]] We are therefore proposing an amendment in Chapter 362 - The National Sports Agency increasing the expenditure of the general indicator, the expenditure of the specific indicator "promotion into sport" and the part "development and promotion of sport" by CZK 2.5 billion. I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u181	Thank you. Mr Karel Haas will now take the stand. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u182	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Colleagues, I think the debate took place very factually on Tuesday during the debate under House Press 270. So now I had to get back to you, because the words of the previous speaker, the honourable colleague Ondřej Babka, through Madam President, on this - and now I really do remember this for two minutes - the government is idly observing the situation in sport, not responding to reality! I have already mentioned here on Tuesday the very concrete steps that this government is taking to promote sport. I'll repeat them one more time. The fact that sports organizations fall within 630 megawatt hours a year into the ceiling of energy prices is a contribution to these sports organizations in the order of billions of crowns across the Czech Republic. The first important thing. The second important thing. The last meeting of the government in July and today's budget change - the addition of hundreds of millions of crowns, real hundreds of millions of crowns. Government proposal 500, after a consensual discussion on the budget committee 385, but with that... 440, I'm sorry, 60 million crowns go to the sports activities of children only under another organization under MŠMT, that is, back into sports and into movement activities. Step two. The third step in particular. Negotiations at government level and very difficult negotiations between the various ministries on the amount, the final amount of the draft state budget for 2023 and the strengthening of the sport chapter on the basis of those difficult negotiations in which we, as a coalition, are trying to maintain budgetary responsibility, and the increase in the sport chapter next year by more than one billion. In the original proposal 5,904, in the final proposal 6,908 billion crowns. So please don't put it here, I'm really saying it, to such an objective reality that it doesn't fit the claim that this government is idly taking into account the situation in sport. I have said three specific things that disprove such objective claims. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u183	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Oldřich Černý will now speak in the general debate, Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u184	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, let me introduce to the amendment to the state budget which is currently under discussion my amendments to the system as House Documents 1349 and 1350. In short, I'd like to justify them. You can read the detailed justification in the explanatory memorandum for each House of Documents. So let's make it short. I propose humiliating contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad by CZK 300 million. The Czech Republic cooperates with almost 500 international organisations and contributes to their operation, but this cooperation is not always beneficial for our country. The Supreme Audit Office evaluated in control action 19/5 that the prerequisites for the efficient provision of funds to international organisations were not met. These measures provided for by the Government of the Czech Republic, which, inter alia, monitored the achievement of savings, were not properly implemented. So the sum of CZK 100 million in the first amendment I propose to increase the support of the beekeeper sector, which is absolutely crucial for agriculture. In the second amendment, I propose that CZK 200 million be increased in support of pig farming. This is financially loss-making and pork production for each year is decreasing, making the Czech Republic more and more dependent on other countries. The SPD movement wants to support mainly Czech producers. Thank you for your support for both my amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radek Koten will now appear, Minister Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u186	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present my amendment to the Government amendment to the State Budget Act for 2022. As we have seen and experienced here, unfortunately, the migration crisis is out of control of the Ministry of the Interior and it can be said that it will certainly mean that police officers will be considerably overloaded. Those who remain in the territories, and those police officers who will thus be patrolling the state border with the Slovak Republic, will need some additional technical equipment to make their service more effective, and thus benefit from the fact that illegal migration will somehow be stopped. In essence, I propose to transfer in Annex 3 - the overall overview of state budget expenditure according to chapters - in Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior to increase by CZK 200 million, namely the technical means for the Police of the Czech Republic, which will therefore carry out patrol activities, and these technical means should make this service easier and make it more efficient for them, because they will not have to inspect every vehicle, but these technical means will ensure that they can essentially carry out this activity online and those scanners will essentially scan vehicles that will pass through those border crossings. So for this reason, I ask for the support of this proposal, because it will really make the work of the Police of the Czech Republic more effective. I will still apply to this amendment - it is under the number of House document 1337 - in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u187	Thank you. Minister Marian Jurečka is now registered. Mr. Josef Kott will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u188	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam President, colleagues. I have taken the liberty of presenting the amendment here to this Parliamentary press number 284, which I will then apply to in a detailed debate, but I will at least allow myself to comment briefly on it in this general debate. This means that the purpose of this amendment is to increase the expenditure of the state budget, i.e. the deficit of the state budget, by CZK 7 billion, directly in Chapter 396 - State debt, thus increasing the binding indicator of the change in state debt by CZK 7 billion. Subsequently in Chapter 313 - The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs then adjust expenditure by a total increase of CZK 7 billion, in which sickness insurance benefits by CZK 2.3 billion, benefits of assistance in material distress by CZK 1,465 billion, allowance for care under the Social Services Act by CZK 900 million, unemployment benefits by CZK 900 million, welfare benefits and foster care by CZK 535 million, pension insurance benefits by CZK 500 million and disability benefits by CZK 400 million. At the same time, the corresponding parts of the bill, including the annexes, are also being adapted. Furthermore, in order to ensure expenditure on the payment of vaccines, Chapter 335 - The Ministry of Health proposes a reduction in the expenditure of chapter 1 973 955 782 CZK, which will be reflected in binding indicators of total expenditure and health programmes, and Chapter 398 - The General Treasury Administration will increase the expenditure of chapter 1 973 955 782 CZK, which will be reflected in binding indicators of total expenditure and government budgetary reserve. [[16.00 hours]] The purpose of this proposal is therefore to add funds for the rest of this year, so that in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs we have secured financing of the mandatorial expenditures that I mentioned here in the chapters, taking into account the development of the need for funding, especially not just sickness insurance, but increased claims for state social support. So much for the brief justification of this amendment, which I will then apply to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We are continuing to discuss the amendment to the state budget for 2022, House press 284. We will continue the general debate. I will request another enrollment and this is Mr Josef Kott and Mrs Klára Dostálová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I would like to comment on two amendments. The first is a Member of Kott, Pražák and Turecko, House document 1283. This is the Ministry of Agriculture. In Chapter 329, expenditure on the general indicator of expenditure and the specific indicator of other expenditure on the State policy of the Ministry, inspection, control and research activities is increased by an amount of CZK 10 million and the same amount is reduced in Chapter 398 - General Treasury Administration. A brief statement of reasons. In the draft state budget for 2022, the expenditure of Chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture was limited to support professional periodicals for associations of beekeepers, fishermen and hunters. In short, I would just like to say that the support of these specialist periodicals is essential for members of these associations in my opinion and is the only possible form of professional information for members of these associations. Since it is a periodical with a narrow profile focus, it is problematic to maintain a high quality of their activities purely on a commercial basis and the support of the State is necessary and irreplaceable in this respect. It is proposed to increase the indicator of additional expenditure on the Ministry's state policy, inspection, control and research activities by an amount of 10 million and this should be divided into a period of seven million beekeepers, one million fishermen and two million hunters. I just want to comment on what led us to this amendment. This is the fact that individual associations were neither forward nor implied that such cuts would take place, and were unable to ensure that they would either reduce the frequency of publishing these magazines or that they would have to deal with it in a different way. So that is this amendment. And the second amendment is to Mr Turek and Mrs Alena Schillerová's fellow Members. This is Chapter 329 - Ministry of Agriculture, where expenditure on the general indicator increases by CZK 1 billion and in Chapter 398 - The general government, in turn, reduces these expenditures. This is about supporting the Water Development Programme in the Czech Republic. And although it does not seem that way now, I think that the development of water management is an absolute priority for the Czech Republic. Between 2015 and 2019, when our territory was affected by a dry period, support for programmes for the development of economic infrastructure became a clear priority, and this was also followed by approved state budgets in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. Why is it the amount of one billion? These are land purchases and support for project preparation of strategic water reservoirs Vlachovice, Šanov and others, where measures of CZK 300 million are already approved by the government. Furthermore, it is the support of water infrastructure in cities and municipalities affected by drought. The amount of CZK 700 million is already specified here too. I just want to add that the subsidy programme is also conducted in the context of the Ministry of Finance's programme financing. Thank you for your attention and I will sign up for both amendments in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u191	Thank you. Next, Mrs Klára Dostálová is enrolled in the general debate. [[Mrs Schiller: Not anymore.]] Not anymore, he's downloading the application. Okay. In that case, we have exhausted all duly entered into the general debate and I ask if anyone else is reporting before I open up a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. If so, I will end the general debate and ask the Minister if he will take the final floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u192	Thank you. I have studied the amendments made to the various Members' speeches, so what I said at the beginning of the debate is true, and each of them will be assessed individually. Some, in my view, are not supported for practical reasons that the money would not have been spent there, but to do so, we will work out detailed opinions within the third reading. Now consider it a statement, not even a criticism. When we had our first reading, very often from opposition benches, criticism was directed to the fact that the deficit was too high. When I sum up the amendments, I feel that one saves 60 million of the dozens they've filed, some move money and many increase spending, which means they're increasing the deficit. I'm saying, it's not criticism, it's just a statement. That 2.5 billion, that 1 billion, that 1.3 billion, that sort of thing. We'll vote on it at the third reading. I'm not saying that none of them have a chance to accept. Just please, the next time you criticize the high deficit, and then in the amendments, 98 per cent goes towards increasing the deficit, I don't think that criticism is entirely appropriate. I'm not talking about the transfers right now, it's standard debate within every budget, they don't increase deficits. It is true that there is such a popular item General Treasury Administration or Government Budget Reserve. I understand that, it's not unusual, it's very common and standard. But then consider whether the criticism above and at the same time the amendments that increase expenditure go in the same direction. In my opinion, these two opinions or these two ideas go in different directions. Thank you. This is like the opening word after the general debate. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u193	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask the rapporteur if she wants to take the final floor at this stage? It's not like that. Thank you. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will be the first to speak, Mr Šimon Heller will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u194	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this path to the amendments by House document number 1280, 1281 and then by House document 1315 and 1316. The justification is embedded in the system and I think I have justified it enough here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u195	Thank you. With a factual point, is the rapporteur reporting? Isn't that right? [[It's not.]] Okay, I'll erase the de facto remark. And now, Mr Šimon Heller should stand down and prepare Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for Amendment 1330. This is a transfer of 30 million from the chapter budget of the Office of the President of the Republic to the drug policy programme and support for youth activity. The reasoning was given in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u197	Thank you. Mrs Klára Dostálová is excused. Next, Mr Jiří Kobza will appear and Mrs Lucie Šafránková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again a pleasant late afternoon. I would like to sign up for Amendments 1311 and 1312. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u199	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Mr Ivo Vondrák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u200	Thank you and I hereby submit to my amendment, which is under the number of House document 1307.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u201	Thank you, Madame. Mr Ivo Vondrák will now appear and Mrs Iveta Štefanová will be prepared. Mr Ivo Vondrák is not present. Please, Mr. Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u202	Hello. Since my colleague is not here and I have been involved in these amendments, I would have taken the liberty of signing up for the two amendments. I just don't know the numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u203	I would need the number of these amendments to be heard. [[Minister Stanjura searches for the required numbers of amendments in his materials.]] Okay, I'm going to ask you for some tolerance for this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u204	It is therefore Amendment 1318, where both options are listed, alternatives. Thank you. So 1318, the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u205	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, then, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u206	So I do not claim anything, but for Mr Rais to make a mistake. There are three suggestions in that system that... [[Mr Vondrák is coming to the hall.]] Mr. Vondrák is already here. So I just wanted to make sure it didn't fit in for some technical reasons. So, in addition to the 1318, which Mr Rais has just signed up to, there are still amendments 1341 and 1342 in the system. It is necessary to sign up for them so that they can be voted on at the third reading. I apologize for speaking with priority rights, but I wanted to point it out, because sometimes it happens that someone is not enough to sign up, and then it's a shame if they can't vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u207	[[MP Vondrák is reporting for word.]] I'll ask you to sign in properly, Mr. Ambassador, duly sign up for a detailed debate, because it is not possible for me to give a word on the leap like this. When you're signed up for the debate, you have to be in the hall. Mrs Iveta Štefanová will now appear and Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u208	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I hereby refer to the amendments which are read in the system as House documents Nos 1334 and 1335. I have justified the proposals in the general debate, the detailed reasoning is part of these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u209	Thank you, Madame. Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now appear and prepare Mrs Marie Pošarová. Mr Jan Hrnčíř is not present. That means I'll erase it. And I will now ask Mrs Marie Pošarová to speak with her amendments, and Mr Vladimír Zlínský will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u210	Hello. I sign up for House document 1313 and the explanatory statement is in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u211	Thank you. Mr Vladimír Zlínský will now appear and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u212	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm applying to Amendment 1279. I have made my reasons in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u213	Thank you, too. Mr Zdeněk Kettner will now appear and Mr Igor Hendrych will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u214	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up to the amendments by House document 1182, 1183. I've submitted everything in writing, and I think I've orally justified everything. There's no need to elaborate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u215	Thank you, too. Mr Igor Hendrych will now appear and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u216	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. I am referring to Amendment 1317 to House Press 284 and I have already made my statement in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u217	Thank you, too. Mr Aleš Juchelka will now appear and Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u218	Thank you very much. I would like to sign up for the Parliamentary press of 1331. [[document]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u219	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Adamec will now prepare Mr Ondřej Babka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to apply to the House document, or to the amendment contained in the House document 1354. It is the amendment made by me and colleague Tomáš Müller. It relates to the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the reasoning is part of House Document No 1354. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u221	Thank you, too. Mr Ondřej Babka will now prepare Mr Oldřich Černý. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u222	Thank you for the floor. I will only apply to Amendment 1288, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u223	Thank you, too. Mr Oldřich Černý will now appear and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby sign up for my amendments to the system as House Documents 1349 and 1350. The reasoning was expressed in the general debate and is part of these documents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u225	Thank you. Mr Radek Koten will now appear and prepare Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u226	Thank you, Mr President. I hereby refer to my amendment, which is led as House document 1337 to the press 284, which I justified in the general debate, so this is what I am referring to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u227	And thank you, too. Minister Marian Jurečka will now appear and Mr Josef Kott will prepare himself. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u228	Thank you, Mr President, fellow Members, I have already spoken here in the general debate on the amendment. I have given a clear explanation here why I am presenting it here, and so I am now applying to this amendment, which is recorded in the system under number 1340 as a petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u229	Thank you, too. Mr Josef Kott will now appear and Mr Hubert Lang will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u230	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for this House document 1282 and 1283. Both amendments were duly substantiated in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u231	Thank you. Mr Hubert Lang will now prepare Mr Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u232	Thank you for the floor. On behalf of Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, I would like to sign up for the draft House document 1275 and House document 1276. Both were read in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u233	Thank you, too. Now Mr Richard Brabec, Mr Karel Sládeček, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u234	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for this amendment, which is recorded in the system under number 1336, and it is an amendment by my colleague Karel Havlíček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u235	Thank you. Mr Karel Sládeček will now appear and Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u236	Thank you. Dear ladies, gentlemen, I am referring to the amendment made by my colleague, Hrnčíř, under number 1278, and Amendment No 1286. The reasons are given in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u237	Thank you. Mr Ivo Vondrák will now appear and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be signed up after him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u238	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I am applying to Amendments 1318 and 1342, which were justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u239	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Aleš Juchelka and the rapporteur after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u240	I would still like to sign up for my colleague Dostálová for Amendments 1280 and 1281. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u241	Thank you. And now also the rapporteur with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a legislative technical error in the resolution adopted on the Committee on Budgets and it needs to be corrected. Therefore, allow me to load legislative technical adaptations. The proposal for amendments shall read: in Amendment No 4, the words "and in specific' shall be replaced by "in specific', the number "4 875 733 388' shall be replaced by "4 875 733 338'. And the words "in cross-section indicators' are replaced by "and in the following section: development and promotion of sport'. This is all about legislative technical adaptations. I would also like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to shorten the deadline between second and third reading to 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-001-001.u243	Thank you. I've noted your proposal for a deadline. No one else is reporting for a detailed debate, so I'm just gonna ask if you want to sign up? I see no one, and in that case, I conclude a detailed debate. I ask the Minister if he wants the final word. Mr. Secretary? No. Madam rapporteur, do you want the final word? It's not like that. I will call my colleague and colleagues from the lobby because, in the course of a detailed debate, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline for the third reading to 7 days. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll check you all out first, I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. I will read one more apology that has arrived, and that is that Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes from 16 o'clock today for family reasons. The number of Members has settled, and I will therefore vote. We will vote on reducing the deadline for third reading to 7 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 3, 125 Members and Members registered, for proposal 124, against none. I note that we have agreed to this proposal and have reduced the deadline for the third reading to 7 days. No other proposal has been made, and I am ending the second reading of this proposal and opening another point in today's negotiations. That's what it is.
