ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u1	77. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 45/2013 Coll., on victims of criminal offences and on the amendment of certain laws (Law on victims of criminal offences), as amended, and some other laws /German press 86/ - third reading I ask that Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek take the position at the rapporteur's table - he did - and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the constitutionally-legal committee, Member of Tatán Malá. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's 86/2 press, which was delivered on 3 March 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as Parliament's press 86/3. Now I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Minister, are you interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u2	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I just don't want to offend the House, so I only speak with the fact that the law was justified at first and second reading and I expect further discussion. I will limit myself only to this brief speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u3	Okay, thank you. I am now opening the debate in which Mrs Helena Válková and then Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská came forward. Mrs Válková, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I wonder if I can interest you, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, because it is not that easy for implementation amendments. [[There's a slight noise in the hall.]] But everything in the reading that preceded was said here. None of us will seem to be, and I would be wrong enough to question the fact that we are at the very limit of those deadlines and that this is an amendment that I dare say will make our criminal proceedings more effective, certainly more European in terms of proper treatment, both in terms of the area of evidence and in terms of the area of further investigation of serious crime. I will not repeat what has been said here more competently from the mouth of the Minister of Justice, which will certainly add something to the final word. What I want to focus on, and what I want to sign up for here, is an area that I didn't even expect to be amended and modified here. It's the law on victims of crimes No. 45/2013 Sb., where, as we know, sometimes takes advantage of it, I do not say intentionally abuse it, the relevant administrative services at the relevant Ministry and incorporate into other, otherwise oriented issues devoted to novelization and what needs to be resolved. And that's exactly what happened in this case. It's a law on victims of crimes that really has nothing to do with the implementation that we were obliged to implement. In the original version, when I read it and discovered it - and I have to confess here, as I have already confessed in the second or first reading, that I have missed it just before the end of our term, that once this effort has been shown, that we have left it and, luckily, did not pass it - so there has been such a change that, for those of you who are not deeply concerned with the issue of compensation for property and non-property damage, this is the name that will suffer the victim of the crime and which the State should compensate it, and according to our international obligations it is also obliged and obliged to do so, so at present the law is not very clear, and therefore it must often be interpreted by its judicatures, which should be clear and binding according to the applicable legislation, specifically according to the law on victims of crimes, victims of crimes, yes, so replaces the court in this case. [[9.30 hours]] In the last case, it was the Supreme Administrative Court, which issued a breaking judgment, which is very recent and which opened up wider possibilities for compensation for property damage and property damage, which is not sufficiently covered by the interpretation it holds, in administrative proceedings the Ministry of Justice decides in parallel. I'm not saying he makes mistakes. Basically, we've developed a double-track here, which is always bad from an economic and temporal point of view. There are administrative and criminal proceedings and the Supreme Administrative Court on the basis of one case - and I will briefly just tell you what the case was to make you realize what the issue is, it's always better on those specific cases. An underage child abused, sexually abused by his own father for at least two years, at seven to nine years, probably longer, but because of the mistakes in criminal proceedings, the longer abuse was not proven. The same father also abused this child's cousin, also a minor. He was sentenced by a final judgment of the criminal court for six years, but with regard to the emergency situation, the pandemic, everything went on for a very long time, so the child would have lost as time limits, which are now poorly set in § 30 para. 2 of the law on victims of crimes, as well as part of the compensation for what was unfortunately apparent only at the age of 15, 16 - severe post-traumatic disorders. I have also read expert opinions, which are the contents of a very detailed key, turning point judicature of October 8, 2021. I almost want to say that I thank the President of the Senate, Dr. Jakub Camrd, for paying so much attention to this, and I think that, in particular, officials at the Ministry of Justice should read it well once more. The judicature is perfectly in line with our international commitments. On the other hand, I understand that it is sometimes very tempting, and the temptation is considerable, to take advantage of the amendment of criminal laws and to get rid of the problem. It was very easy to get rid of the problem. In this case, Article 28 (2) of the basic Regulation was deleted. In essence, the law on victims of crimes, which, in the present text - and I will read it to you - allows the court that decides in criminal proceedings to follow further proceedings, unfortunately, now it is a duplicate administrative procedure, so that in this section 28 para. "Where compensation or non-property damage has already been decided by a final judgment, the amount of damage or non-property damage found in the judgment shall be binding on the determination of financial assistance to the extent that it has already been decided on compensation or non-property damage'. Because if he made that decision, and in the case that was the case, he decided, and I suspect that there was about 350,000 that he confessed to the child, and he gave him the time limits, so there was no limitation, there was no overlap, there was no delay in the deadline, because there are still set in that section 30 paragraph. 2 in relation to such damaged minors senseless deadlines, pointlessly short. So this paragraph has been deleted. We have returned it to the Constitutional Legal Committee, however, in view of further negotiations with the Ministry of Justice, given the time that is pushing us and the need to finally complete the implementation and to adopt the law, we have finally agreed with a certain modification that we have introduced there with the rapporteur of the press, my dear fellow Member Mala, who is proposing there, in our amendment inserted into the system under number 474, another text. However, I must say that I am not entirely thrilled about this, and here I have just used my speech to say that we will certainly be dealing with this on the subcommittee on sexual violence, and I hope again on the constitutional and legal committee at the earliest opportunity. When the criminal code is amended, we will return to this issue again, because I fear that if we approve - and paradoxically now the proposal that we have put in there, 474 - the courts will in fact have a difficult situation and will not be able to impose compensation and compensation, especially the painful, non-property damage, to such an extent - I say it simply again - as I have so far. It is true that from the point of view of the rule of law it will be better, because here, both confusion and double-trackness will be removed, but again, I should not be Minister of Justice for at least 13 months - and I do not believe that it has changed so significantly - to have (?) longer periods, and the most complaints have always gone on as long as compensation takes, for example, those who have been wrongly convicted and seeking compensation. There's an overload with the union, these people aren't processing it. I also asked the Constitutional and Legal Committee about compensation for victims of crimes. We have an adjustment in which each cash penalty and other financial penalties are transferred to the fund to help victims of crimes. I was told that these things are not being paid out of this fund, while millions of dollars must be accumulated, and what are we doing with them? At the end of the year we transfer them to the state budget, where they will surely disappear into other, more useful things. Now I'm saying it deliberately with exaggeration and ironic. So once again a good intention that doesn't work in practice. So I, too, needed to get off here for myself, and, as they say, reveal the lingerie and say that what we are proposing now is a change of § 30 para. 2 when we are introducing a special regime that concerns the very minor victims of criminal offences, and the specialty is that one single sentence is added there, that the request of a minor victim of a crime against human dignity in the sexual area may be filed with the Ministry within two years of the date on which she became an adult or within five years of the end of the period later, otherwise the right will cease. Like the victim in Austria, Germany, other European countries, and in accordance with our international obligations, the victim - I looked into the German Code and found that they had it there too, so I can really confirm it - the right to, for example, the seven-year victim who was abused for two years, as in this case, at least two years of writing there, and then from the fourteen, 15, 16, the psychological damage and post-traumatic disorder began to manifest itself, so that she would have the opportunity to ask for this help at all. But it is bought out, I open it quite openly, by putting in Amendment 474, which has opened the provision to us so beautifully with its case-law, the Supreme Court judge under case number 5AS189/202-61, partly narrowing down the aid. So I'm ending my speech that this time with our amendments, or ours, we're not 100% satisfied. We've done the best we can. I suppose the victims will also understand that we have chosen a path here because we need the positive position of the Ministry of Justice, namely the Minister of Justice, we need the majority of the Chamber of Deputies to raise their hand, and we think it is unforgivable that children's victims should not be able to achieve the same extent as adults in order to compensate for the damage they suffered in years when they may not even know it is harm. At five years of abused child or three years, we also had those cases, I work with those lawyers who represent these victims, so they say that even a three-year-old child who has been abused for a long time, very often at 12, at 13 years of age has problems and big problems, which I did not know. [[9.40 hours]] In conclusion, I also recommend Amendments 374 and 474 to agree that, in particular, with regard to the amendment of the provisions of 28 para. 2, so I do not consider it final and optimal and I recommend that we return to it precisely because we should be in line with international commitments that tell us that the state has unfortunately failed in cases of child victims in particular. He failed not to fulfil his preventive role by means of his state authorities to ensure that the child did not suffer such harm. We all know that we can't always - we always can't - but sometimes we can, and sometimes the OSPOD just goes to sleep, sometimes it's someone else, I have to say neighbors, and sometimes it's people that we wouldn't expect to do because they should deal more with these public issues, so they will. In that case, however, we have the tools in the law on victims of crimes, we can use them, and it is not good to narrow down these possibilities only with the point that it does not suit us administratively, because here we have either inconspicuous legislation, insufficient or even confusing. But the Supreme Administrative Court's judicature has actually compensated it now. Okay, well, the legislation, if we approve it the way it's designed, simplify it, but I'm not sure at all that it's gonna be so much better for the victims of crime in its outcome. As far as time limits and underage victims are concerned, I'm sure that's better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u5	Thank you, too, Madam. Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská is now in the debate. And before I give her my word, let me make one statement - with the replacement card number 11, Prime Minister Petr Fiala votes. Thank you. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u6	Thank you. Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, press 86 also regulates several laws, namely the Criminal Code, the Criminal Victims Act, the Criminal Procedure Act, the so-called Criminal Code, the Criminal Code Act, the Child Register Act, the Public Collection Act, the Police Act of the Czech Republic, the Act on the General Inspection of Security Corps, the Act on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons and the Act on Proceedings Against It and the Act on Military Police. The aim of this press is, above all, the adaptation and implementation of the adopted regulations of the European Union, or legally binding international treaties. The proposal also introduces changes which respond to certain identified shortcomings in the implementation of certain Union directives following the results of implementation worshops and other evaluation activities. Let me recap the whole process a little bit. We are at the third reading and I would like to remind you what this press is all about. On 17 April 2019, the so-called non-cash directive was adopted to reflect technological developments in the field of cash-free payment instruments, to improve and modernise existing rules on their protection in order to make the fight against fraud in this area more effective. Protection against this type of fraud affects not only credit cards or electronic wallets used for the transfer of electronic money, but also new virtual wallets allowing the transfer of virtual assets when used for payment. In the field of purely criminal law, the directive aims to strengthen, inter alia, the capacity of law enforcement authorities to combat cyber crime and to remove obstacles to an operational nature which prevent effective investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. The Non-cash Directive only regulates the minimum rules and guarantees that each Member State has to anchor in order to protect cash-free means of payment, while it is up to each Member State to establish rules that go beyond this Directive, including the adaptation of definitions of criminal offences or the level of criminal penalties. In the case of the amount of criminal rates or types of sanctions to be imposed on the perpetrators of these offences, Czech legislation already meets all the requirements of the non-cash directive. The interest in the outlook is to go fully to cash-free payments, when the effort and credit cards will be replaced by other means of payment by time and technology development. We do not fully identify with this development and the SPD will always be in favour of maintaining cash payments. On 17 April of the same year, a further regulation and a directive was adopted, the main aim of which is to establish a so-called central system for the identification of the Member States of the European Union, which should keep information on the condemnation of third-country citizens, stateless persons and persons whose nationality has not been established. The central system should therefore enable Member States to identify quickly and effectively Member States which may have information on the convictions of stateless persons. The system I mentioned here is part of the eu-INIS program. The topic of interoperability within the European Union, including in the light of recent security incidents, is a priority in the context of the fight against terrorism and in the discussions on the future of Schengen. Since the relevant national regulation does not allow the proper application of the ECRIS-TCN Regulation and it is necessary to implement the requirements of this Directive, the adaptation of this Regulation and the implementation of the directive in question require the amendment of the relevant provisions of the Criminal Register Act, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Police of the Czech Republic Act, the General Inspection of Security Corps and the Military Police Act, as amended by these laws. In the context of the above-mentioned necessary amendments, it also appears appropriate to adjust the conditions for the issue of a mandate for the purpose of verifying good conduct under the Child Social Protection Act, as amended. As the explanatory memorandum states, Member States are required to implement the Directive by 28 June of this year at the latest, the date of the start of operation of the system being determined by the Commission under the Regulation, subject to compliance with the conditions set out in Article 3 (2) of the Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, for the adoption of measures to ensure compliance with this Regulation, Member States should have at least 36 months after the entry into force of this Regulation. The Criminal Register Act must also be adapted to the requirements arising from the Agreement which entered into force on 1 May 2021. The Agreement in Part Three entitled Cooperation in the field of law enforcement and judicial cooperation in criminal matters provides for certain issues relating to international judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, on the one hand, and the United Kingdom on the other. The criminal record shall not be without national implementing arrangements, which, following the provisions of the agreement in the necessary relationship, shall determine the appropriate procedure for the institutions of the Czech Republic, in particular the Criminal Register. Another part of the press 86 deals with the amendment to the Central Account Register Act, as amended, implements the Directive on the establishment of rules facilitating the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute certain offences. This amendment was made in the form of an amendment which did not contain the necessary link to criminal law. [[9.50 hours]] The main objective of the proposed amendment is therefore to bring the legislation contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the amendment to the Central Account Register Act as well as the Financial Information Directive itself. Based on the results of implementation workshops and other evaluation activities in relation to the implementation of European Union acts, several areas have been identified where the Czech Republic can further deepen the existing level of implementation of the directive on attacks on information systems, the directive on combating terrorism and the directive on victims of crime. This is also done by press 86 in another section, which is very detailed in the explanatory part of this proposal, which was also discussed on the constitutionally-legal committee. Within the framework of the Criminal Victims Act, it is proposed to respond to the Supreme Administrative Court's caselaw, and this part here is very detailed and detailed and far more erudite than I would have Válková, so I will not repeat it. Furthermore, press 86 addresses the existing legislation contained in the Criminal Code - it does not always allow persons involved in the activities of armed entities engaged in an armed conflict in another state at present. The absence of the possibility of criminal sanctions is also manifest in cases where certain acts of persons appear to be very serious and socially harmful from the point of view of the security of the Czech Republic, as well as of the State in whose territory the armed conflict is taking place. Following the interpretation contained in the general part of the statement of reasons, press 86 proposes the new factual nature of the crime affecting certain forms of conduct of persons participating in activities of non-state armed groups focused on the activities of armed conflict taking place in the territory of another state, i.e. a State different from the Czech Republic. It can be summed up that certain forms of membership of non-state armed groups aimed at acting in armed conflict occurring in the territory of another State can be seen as an important security threat, but which, according to the current regulation, is not possible or very complicated criminally affected. The proposed change should correct today's unsatisfactory condition. Nor is it important that by criminalising participation in a non-State armed group aimed at acting in an armed conflict in the territory of another State, there will also be a settlement of the current disproportion, where the possibility of criminal sanctions depended solely on the fact with which the party in the armed conflict was sympathetic and to which it joined. In the case of a government actor, the hearing was qualified as a service in foreign armed forces under other conditions. However, if it was an actress of a non-state nature, such as insurgent forces, the act was not criminally punishable. As part of the second reading, three amendments were read, namely Radek Koten's amendment under No. 475, which inserts a new paragraph in Section 29, and this paragraph reads: "On the contrary, the necessary defence is involved if the defence is directed against a person who has trespassed through violence or threat, immediate violence or overcomes an obstacle which is intended to prevent entry, if such action may cause a defender to be concerned about life or health or other present persons.' This amendment fully corresponds to our SPD programme "my house, my castle." The other two amendments were tabled by Mrs Válková and Mr Malá under the numbers 374 and 474. As I mentioned earlier, Dr. Válková has given these changelings a very detailed explanation, so I will not repeat myself here. For the SPD, I can therefore say that we will support the three amendments tabled and the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u7	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Radek Koten is now in the debate and Mr Karel Haas will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would just briefly talk about the amendment, already told my colleague Lesenská here before me. What is the point of principle? We are responsible for what happens when someone attacks you in your home, actually transferring to the perpetrator, because he can decide whether or not he will be interfered with, based on whether or not he's breaking in or breaking in. So I think it is necessary to strengthen the rights of decent people who are in their homes and, on the contrary, to sharpen the rights somewhat for those who attack, break in, rob and so on. So I would ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Mr Karel Haas is in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u10	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I have joined the debate in order to ask you across the political spectrum and for the technical legal reasons that I will try to summarize for the non-support of the amendment tabled by my colleague Radek Koten, of course through you. The reasons aren't ideal, they're not political, they're really purely legal. I have them summarized in seven points, and then I'm going to give them the points right away. The first reason why I do not support this parliamentary proposal, which is intended to reach into the conditions of the Czech legal regulation necessary for defence, is because the Government issued 29 on this amendment. Last year's 12th negative opinion, very detailed. Second reason: Lawyers here in the House is quite a lot, we are placed politically in all political parties, so I believe that most of our fellow lawyers will confirm that large Czech legal codes such as the Civil Code, the type of law on commercial corporations and the type of criminal code in which the amendment is to be applied, are to change after a proper government proposal, following a government proposal which will be submitted, after a proper expert analysis, after consultation with all the legal professions, after an assessment of the current legislative and judicial state, rather than an ad hoc parliamentary amendment. That's reason number two. Reason number three: the amendment which inserts a new paragraph in the present Paragraph 29. 3, it is based on a completely flawed premise that more or more detailed legal norms are equal to a better and fairer world. The opposite is true. If the Czech rule of law is flawed, we will certainly not achieve a better and fairer law. That's reason number three. Reason number four, there under the legal profession and the creation of the current criminal code, I was not involved in any way in the present legislation - so I believe that the professor who nods to me again through Madam President - assumes an assessment of all aspects and circumstances of the necessary defence in the case of a specific case before the court. This means: by prescribing a new third paragraph to the court, we certainly do not change their existing practice, when it is the task of the court to properly assess all aspects and circumstances of the particular case in which the institute of necessary defence is involved. [[10.00 hours]] The fifth reason follows reason number four. The problem of media-sponsored cases of necessary defence - and, of course, I cannot see as a public person in specific criminal files - but the problem of those media-sponsored cases from all publicly available sources is not that we have poor legislative regulation, but that the courts are working properly and that it is simply difficult in individual cases to evaluate the evidence situation well and fairly. Sixth reason. Mr Koten's amendment makes no application, and now I am speaking for the Czech courts, what the relationship between paragraphs 1 and 2 and the new paragraph 3 should be, which, even if you look at it in a form of form, really content, grammarally, completely departs from the previous amendment contained in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 29 of the Criminal Code. And finally, the last seventh technical reason. This already concerns - I am going from more general reasons to more specific - the wording of the amendment. The newly proposed paragraph 3 contains a number of vague terms - I will give at least two examples - and these vague concepts always make the situation worse for the recipients of the law, that is to say, for those defenders who defend themselves in the necessary defence regime. Promised examples of indeterminate terms: the concept of dwelling, which in the context of the Czech rule of law is not clearly enshrined. What is the concept of a dwelling related to the concept of an apartment, to the concept of a building, to the concept of a household? And this way I could continue through a number of Czech law used terms. Another vague term, and very dangerous to the defender, the concept of justified concern. Please, fear is a factual condition that is on the victim's side, defending some kind of attack. It's her internal state. Fear cannot be justified or unjustified. So this notion, a truly senseless, two words, brings into the legal system another uncertainty that paradoxically deteriorates - or could worsen - the status of the victim who defends himself in the necessary defence regime. For all these reasons - I have also spoken about these reasons on the Guarantee Committee - I ask you not to support Mr Koten's amendment for political, but for these professional legal reasons. It is in the voting procedure amendment marked by letter B. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u11	děkovat you, Mr Member, and now Mrs Helena Válková has signed up with the facts. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. My colleague and I, through you, Dr. Haas, will always have to reason with us, because of the seven points I'm basically not going to repeat anything, I agree with everything. I would merely add the argument that I spoke to some members of the Supreme Court criminal college, and so I refreshed myself, even how long it took for some things to be Judicied and explained, for example, quite clearly disproportionate way of attack. So the vagueness of the terms in this proposal is not only dangerous, but more or less from the point of view of legislation we would have achieved the opposite, they are counterproductive. After that, no one would really know what necessary defense is, and it would achieve exactly the opposite effect than where the proposal is headed. So, my colleague, through the Vice-President, thank you because, exceptionally, I will be able to observe two minutes, and I also recommend voting against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u13	Thank you, Madame, for respecting the time limit. And now, in fact... [[Member Vondraček off the microphone: normal.]] Normally until the debate. So Mr Radek Vondráček, a Member of Parliament, came to the debate normally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u14	Thank you for giving me the chance to get off normally. My esteemed colleagues, for the YES movement, my esteemed colleague Helena Válková has outrun me and has basically already said the position of the ANO movement, which I wanted to interpret here, that we will not support the proposal of my colleague Koten. So I will not go into interpretation problems, but in general we have, as far as I know, two proposals of a similar type. First of all, it's a Senate proposal, and second of all, it's a proposal from a SPD pen. And I'm sure we'll work our way through that. Mr Koten's amendment is basically such a shortcut. It is a classic label for this European implementation, so we are already very careful for this reason. I will not say that we have never supported the label as an YES movement in the history of this House, but this subject really deserves a bigger discussion, the theme "my house, my castle." By the way, the constitutionally-legal committee has approved its patronage of the seminar on this subject, and this seminar should aim to hear both sides of this discussion issue. I completely understand the human stories of a man being subjected to several years of prosecution for defending himself in his home with a gun in his hand. Those stories are really very strong. It's stories where these people lose their jobs, it's stories where these people have health problems, and when it will irreversibly change their lives, so that after a few years, they will be released from any charge. On the other hand, there is a reasonable and correct approach, for example, to judges who are concerned with this issue and who say: But we have interpretation rules, we have clear judicial practice, and any amendment to the law in this sense is counterproductive. And it's good that those people who have lived through the Martyrium for several years of criminal prosecution have in their hands comprehensive evidence that they have acted in accordance with the law, not risking a civil claim for damages. This is the second position, the other side of this discussion. I would therefore ask all my colleagues to look into this on the constitutionally-legal committee, so that we can really look into this in detail. The YES amendment will not vote for this particular amendment, but I would like to stress that this does not mean that we are not paying attention to the citizens' initiative and what is sound in society, and that is that we should somehow anchor the principle of "my house, my castle" in the legal order of the Czech Republic. However, if we do this, we want to do it properly. We really want to make it work, make it work. We cannot vote on the amendment at third reading for this reason. And I invite all my colleagues who are interested in this topic to attend a seminar which, I assume, will be held by the constitutionally-legal committee in April of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And if no one signs up for debate, I will end the debate and the rapporteur will speak first with the final word. Please, you have the floor. [[Member of the Board: First the plaintiff.]] First the plaintiff, thank you for the heads-up. So I ask, is it possible to give priority? If that's okay with you, Mr. Benda, wouldn't you agree? Yes, very good, so Mrs. and rapporteur Taťána Malá has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u16	Good morning. Thank you very much to President Benda for his benevolence, and I would like to present a brief report describing the course of the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 45/2013 Coll., on victims of criminal acts and on the amendment of certain laws, and some other laws. This press was discussed after the first and second reading by the constitutionally-legal committee, which discussed this amendment in a very factual, detailed and constructive manner, including the discussion of the amendments tabled. In total, four amendments were tabled, with the constitutionally-legal committee recommending proposals to the Chamber of Deputies for approval, C1 and C2, tabled by Mrs Válková with me. [[10.10 hours]] It is certainly appropriate to thank the Minister of Justice for his willingness to discuss and reconsider his opinion, particularly with Amendment C1, which is certainly the right step in protecting the victims of crimes and their assistance. As far as the amendment is concerned, there has not been a very detailed discussion of it today, it concerns in practice frequently occurring cases where a minor victim sexually abused at a time when he is unable to reasonably realize that such a crime has been caused to her, he usually begins to realize what really happened to her as a young child. From our point of view, it is quite logical that such minors have the right to apply the same conditions to them as to all others, and they cannot be discriminated against because of their age and their lack of intellectual and mental abilities. That is why this amendment introduces the possibility that the request for financial assistance should be requested by these minor victims of crimes against human dignity in the sexual area no later than two years after the acquisition of maturity or within five years of the commission of the offence if that period expires later. As regards the second amendment C2 or 474, which was approved by the constitutionally-legal committee, she has discussed this here, I think very much, Professor Válková. He says that the victim does not have to show loss of earnings and costs if their amount has been decided by a final judgment. I believe that we will discuss this point with the Minister then on the subcommittee and subsequently on the constitutionally-legal committee and that we will be able to correct the wording so that the victims of crime really have the best possible help and protection. As regards the two remaining amendments, the first was the amendment of the constitutionally-legal committee, which was just then refined and recast in Amendment 474, which we have been talking about here for a long time, and the last is the amendment of Mr Koten, who has already done a decent job here for me, I think, Mr Haas. And I believe that if the amendments are approved in the text approved by the constitutionally-legal committee, the implementation amendment will fulfil its role. It should be pointed out that the implementation deadline is already 31. 5. 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u17	Thank you, rapporteur. And now the Minister - he is not interested in the final word. That was therefore the rapporteur's final words and we will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. And before that happens, I'll read the apologies. Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons and then Vice-President Bartošek apologizes today from 10 to 13 o'clock also for work reasons. And now I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. As far as the draft voting procedure is concerned, the constitutionally-legal committee recommended the voting procedure as follows: proposals for legislative technical adjustments, if they were made - they were not, then the B vote, then the C1 proposal, then the C2 proposal - if C2 is approved, then the unvoting proposal A - then the A proposal and it will be unvoting if the C2 proposal is adopted and in the last vote we will vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u19	Thank you, rapporteur. We will now proceed to the vote on individual amendments. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out, I see an application for check-out, and please sign up with your cards. We'll wait a while for the numbers to settle. And we will vote on individual amendments. I therefore ask the rapporteur to tell us what we will now vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u20	As regards the first vote, we will vote on Amendment B, and this is Mr Koten's amendment, which regulates the necessary defence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u21	Yes, so we're voting on proposal B. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Sorry, I forgot. Yes, I declare this vote (number 25) confusing, because I forgot to have the rapporteur give us her opinion, as well as the Minister. Please, rapporteur. [[Disagreeable.]] Disagree. [[- Disagree.]] Yes, we can now vote again on proposal B. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 26, 161 Members and Members signed in for 17, against 139. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u22	We will also vote on Amendment C1 by Mrs Válková and mine, and this is an amendment that regulates the request for cash assistance for minors to victims of sexual crimes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u23	Excuse me? [[Reporter: Agreed. - Agreed.]] Now may I begin the vote and ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 27, 165 Members and Members voted in favour of 164, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u24	The next is Amendment C2 by Mrs Válková and also by me, and it is an amendment of Section 28, which was discussed here by Professor Válková. The opinion shall be agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u25	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 28, 165 Members and Members voted in favour of 165, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u26	Since we have approved Amendment C2, then Amendment A is unvoted, which was the very original amendment of the constitutionally-legal committee. And now we will vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-001-077.u27	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. I am just saying that all the proposals have been voted on, and we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 45/2013 Coll., on victims of crimes and on the amendment of certain laws, the Law on victims of crimes, as amended, and some other laws, pursuant to the House press 86, as amended. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 29, 165 Members and Members signed in for 160, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I am done discussing this point, thank you to the rapporteur and the Minister. [[10.20 hours]] And now we're going to proceed to the next point, and that's the point.
