ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax as amended, Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws /house print 254/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, whom I am asking to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u2	Thank you for the floor. In this bill, we change four existing laws in total. I'd say that's good news for taxpayers. I will briefly present the main principles of change in the four laws, and then I am definitely prepared to respond to questions or comments during the debate. [[17.30 hours]] Firstly, we are amending the VAT Act by increasing the limit for the mandatory registration of VAT from one to two million. This was a long-term programme goal that we have unsuccessfully voted on several times in the last parliamentary term. This time I believe it will be successful. Secondly, we promised in the government's programming statement that we would change the control reports parametrically, and in this case we are bringing about a change in two parameters. The first is the time to submit a follow-up inspection report. At this point it is 5 working days from the date of delivery of the call to the data box, we change it to 17 calendar days from the date of delivery to its data box, because a tax entity that is not afraid of the message sent to it by the financial administration can actually pick it up immediately and at that point it can be 15, 16, 17 calendar days to the response. This is what we come to especially small businessmen, small companies, where very often accounting services are provided externally or only one or one accountant is needed. At the time that man was on vacation, he was sick, he had the Czech Republic, he was only 5 working days to react. The 17 working days come to those honest ones who are not afraid to open the messages that the financial administration is sending them. For the others, nothing really changes, because the delivery fiction is 10 days if you don't pick it up, and there is instead of 5 working 7 calendar days. But it's coming in handy, I say, to the honest, so that they have enough time to file a follow-up inspection report. And the second parametric change, we're reducing possible fines, up to half, for three categories of taxpayers. First, an esero, where one natural person is the owner, and then for a payer whose tax period is a quarter, in half. Of course, the third ones are businessmen. So three groups for which the maximum fines are in half: tradesmen, eseróčko with the sole owner - natural person and quarterly VAT payers. So many changes to the VAT Act. Then we change the law, we propose to amend the Income Tax Act, change the flat-rate tax, when the limit of 1 million - which today was the same as the mandatory VAT registration limit, it is logical that the numbers are the same - so if we propose to increase the VAT registration limit to 2 million, we propose to increase the limit for the possibility of applying the flat-rate tax. And I'm saying it's an option, it's not an obligation. I hear criticism about how difficult it's gonna be. Well, it's not gonna be that difficult, it's just a criticism. For those who are already taking advantage of the flat-rate tax, which means they have a turnover of up to 1 million, nothing will change at all. For those who can enter - and for those who are between 1 and 2 million, there are approximately 60,000, more are simply not in the whole spectrum - and it is an option, so there we propose for those who use 80% flat rates to have a low tax on the whole flat rate, which means 100 crowns a month. For those of you who have a 60% flat rate, we propose this favorable income regime of up to 1.5 million, the second band from 1.5 million to 2 million. And for those of you who have 40% flat rate, this band is going to be from 1 million to 1.5, and the third band is going to be from 1.5 to 2 million. The question that arises is why the tax is not just one. The answer is quite simple. Each of us can calculate according to the current rules, what is the tax on income of 1.9 million at 40% flat-rate and let's say 600,000 at 80% flat-rate. There's a huge band, even with the expense flat-rate. Finding one amount would be extremely disadvantageous for either one group and therefore would not be using the system, or extremely advantageous for another group, depending on where we would set that amount. The purpose of the flat-rate tax is not to reduce the tax burden but to reduce the bureaucratic burden. If we accept this, as is suggested in these parameters, the estimated lower tax collection is 600 million, of which 500 million are the state budget and 100 million are public budgets, which is not a substantial amount. We've been trying to set those limits so they're closer to the top of the band. Of course, we can have a legitimate debate about where we're going to put those borders, but that is exactly how we need to answer the question of who else will it be beneficial for, for whom it will no longer be beneficial and if we do not, by chance, favour one group of taxpayers over another. Let me just remind you that the intention is not to reduce the tax burden, but to reduce bureaucracy, and secondly, that it is merely an offer. All these calculations, of course, when modeling how advantageous it is, it is actually reasonable that a static model is taken, that it is a taxpayer who does not apply any discounts because they are individual, and the advantage is assessed by having only a basic discount on the taxpayer, nothing else. I don't think so, I've read that you're going to need a tax advisor - I don't think so, because everyone knows what a flatterer he is. For the most classic, that means 80 percent of the craftsmen, it's the same as today. For those up to 1 million who are at 60 percent, it's the same as today, and for those two, it's just an estimate of how high the income will be next year. We're dealing with something that came up in the application of this law, which means that when someone quits, they have to pay for, for example, supplies or deal with relations with the state. So let's make it bureaucratic so that it's easier. It'll stand on an honest statement. Of course, those who have supplies and end the business are going to be in the same mode as today. It's not a disadvantage, it's nothing impractical, it's nothing abnormal, but those who don't have it can just have the process faster and easier. This is not the only change in the Income Tax Act, there are two other changes. The first is the one for which all the business associations called for, which means an extension of extraordinary depreciation even for the tax periods 2022 and 2023. I think that the last government and the last House and Senate measures for 2020 and 2021 have proved to be effective and appropriate in practice, which is why we are proposing to apply this year and next year. Then the amount of annual income increases when tax returns are not required. This has long been unprecedented, there were 15,000, we propose 25,000, and in the case of a taxpayer who has only direct employment, from 6,000 to 10,000. Thanks to a reminder from the Ministry of the Interior, and I must say, we are exempting the remuneration for the duties of a member of the electoral commission from income tax. Even so, the function of an executor on the electoral commission is not very attractive and even a withholding tax of 15 percent, if it does not, it may slightly increase the motivation of our citizens to participate as a member of the electoral committee. So I don't know which of the following years will be without elections, I think up to 2027 or 2028, otherwise there will be elections every year. And the last thing I want to mention here. We propose to solve such a long-term problem and this is the exemption of income in the form of a free acquisition of a co-ownership interest in immovable property from the municipality, provided that subsidies have been accepted for such construction between 1995 and 2007. These are all the main principles or major changes proposed in the Income Tax Act. We then amend the Tax Act in relation to the conflict in Ukraine, where we remove the obligation to file a tax return here, if it were only due to the application of deduction to the gift of the representative office of Ukraine. You know that many of our citizens were folding and sending money to an account founded by the Ukrainian embassy. If that's the only reason for filing a tax return, we're actually canceling that obligation. And the second thing we're paying off to our households, who have stayed in their apartment or in our free residential area of Ukrainian refugees, so they won't count on the income of their husband. We think it's right that for someone being solidarity, they get a part covered back from the state, so it shouldn't count on income. [[unintelligible]] And the last, the amendment to the tax code, which responds to the fact that the obligation to use data boxes will be increased from next year, so that individuals who do not engage and have to file a tax return so that they do not have to file it via the data box. These are actually the main changes contained in this bill. I look forward to the debate today, but also on the Committee on Budgets and between first and second reading. Since we are beginning in July, I believe there is no reason to shorten the deadlines, and I see enough time to adopt this bill in time both in the lower and upper chambers. Today, I will ask you to be released for second reading and the commandment of this bill to the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u3	Thank you, too, Mr. Speaker. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u4	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister here has summed up most of the most important elements of this proposal. I would like to stress that the main objective of the tax package presented is actually to make life easier especially for small and small entrepreneurs and businessmen, whether it is to reduce the administrative burden related to the payment of taxes precisely by increasing the limit for compulsory VAT registration to 2 million or by shifting the possibility of using the institute of flat-rate tax up to 2 million or removing some of the hardness of the law in the parameters of the inspection report. It is the bureaucratic and administrative burden that is one of the major elements that discourages business and, of course, the associated time and financial costs. The tax administration is then the largest carrier of this bureaucratic burden. For example, if you look at the international comparison according to Doing Business, the average company in the Czech Republic must spend an average of 230 hours on tax administration. That's up to 47th place in the world. Within the European Union, we are up to the 21st position, so entrepreneurs must spend almost 57 hours more on paying taxes than the average in the European Union. And time is one of the most valuable commodities in business. Every savings hour that a businessman can devote to his own business is far more effective for him and the entire company, and the purpose of the proposed adjustments here is to reduce the tax administration. The second benefit from my point of view is the unification of the limits to CZK 2 million, which will lead to greater clarity in the tax system. We already have tax spending flats up to CZK 2 million today, which is a valid law, and in this tax package it is proposed to unite the limit of 2 million for both mandatory VAT registration and for the flat-rate tax presented here in detail by the Minister. In this context, with regard to the VAT registration limit, I would like to draw attention, in particular, to the transitional provisions which provide for an active withdrawal from the VAT registration to the existing taxpayers. It is therefore possible that existing VAT payers can decide, depending on the nature of their business, whether or not they will remain in the VAT system. At the same time, as the Minister said here, some parameters of the inspection report will change. The deadline for submitting a subsequent inspection report shall be adjusted on the basis of a call from the tax administrator. There will be a reduction in fines in half for certain obliged entities and, at the same time, if this proposal passes in this text, the first fine will be waived in a calendar year of 10,000, which is a fine when a check report is submitted up to the appeal of the tax administrator within a substitute period for all taxpayers. Another element of this proposal was presented by the Minister, so I will not repeat it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u5	I also thank the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which Mr David Pražák, who is the only one registered, has so far joined. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u6	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Minister, Ministers, I dare to speak as an expert on taxes and an amendment to value added tax, an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, but rather I would like to devote myself to the issues that concerned me in the last parliamentary term at the end, and also to some colleagues across the political spectrum. It may have been a bit marginal in the report and the Minister's report, but I dare say that this concerns tens of thousands of citizens in the Czech Republic. And by this I mean - I don't mean it ironically, I mean it positively - I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance for this, because it also concerned the previous management of the Ministry of Finance and other ministries. This is a passage in the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which concerns the exemption of free income, where a paragraph was put in place to quote that "Free income from the acquisition of a co-ownership interest in immovable property from a municipality or from a taxpayer whose municipality is a member or founder is exempt from corporation tax if, first, a subsidy was obtained from the State budget between 1995 and 2007 through a programme supporting the construction of rental flats and technical infrastructure or from the State Housing Development Fund pursuant to Government Regulation No. 481/2000 Coll., on the use of State Housing Development Fund funds in the form of a subsidy to cover part of the costs associated with the construction of flats, as amended, and secondly, the transfer of this immovable property to another person for a specified period was prohibited under the terms of the grant provided for in point 1 and is the first transfer after that period, with this transfer serving to ensure that this immovable property is owned by the housing cooperative or natural person.' To get to why I care. More than a year ago, I and some colleagues, as I have already said, were addressed across the political spectrum in the Liberec Region by the Association Justice for Housing Cooperatives, which began to deal with the issue of transfers of cooperative shares from cities to owners that it had, the housing cooperative, which was supposed to have fulfilled contracts after 20 years, and there were more or less problems with the fact that they did not know whether a free transfer was possible or not whether it was legitimate. And the second thing was that if they had already gotten the transfers and the apartments into their possession, if they had to pay the acquisition tax. Twenty years ago, for example, in Liberec or the Liberec Region, especially in Liberec, the construction of flats started from the housing support programme. At that time, the Ministry of Finance was led by Minister Kočárník and more than 1,150 flats in ten housing companies were built in Liberec, with more than 40,000 flats in the whole Czech Republic, which today is more than tens of thousands of people who were helped at that time. The housing cooperative paid off the construction for 20 years, including shares that had been registered as property of the cities after the completion of the 20 years, according to the contracts they had concluded, which would not have been a problem. But unfortunately, there have been some changes to the laws, and cities and municipalities have begun to doubt that free transfers are legitimate, and they have demanded a bribery transfer or some other expression from the ministries that would more or less confirm that they can transfer it without penalty, which was the first problem. And then the second thing was whether or not they would have to tax the transfer of their property. Therefore, before that year and something we entered into negotiations with the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, held some meetings and in May 2021 a joint weekend opinion was issued by these three ministries, from which the municipalities and cities were then set off and could start dealing with free transfers. As I say, this was not just about us in the Liberec Region, but it started to concern all the municipalities affected by this in the Czech Republic. So the first thing was solved, and the second thing was whether they really had to pay the income tax on the transfer. We had in July and August together with the administration of the Ministry of Finance, and I would like to thank Deputy Kouba, who is still there, as far as I know, now and now also doing the change together, but even then before that year I had prepared an amendment, which was signed by ANO and ČSSD and ODS and STAN, and we wanted to have it exempt from free income in the amendment of the law. But unfortunately, there was before the election at that time, and there was no law that could be opened. It seemed like it would have to be added to the law in connection with the development of the capital market, which really didn't seem quite comfortable, but it was one of the options that could have been done, but after some agreement across the political spectrum this didn't happen anymore. And we've all promised, I think across the board, that we'll try to do our best in the next term, who we're going to be here, to bring this to an end. That is why I am glad that the Ministry of Finance has succeeded now, it is inserted there, and I rightly want to admit that I thank them for this and also thank the Ministry of Finance for the past and, in fact, the entire association Justice for the housing cooperative, to which Mrs Hana Kordová Marvanová has legally helped. [[17.50 hours]] The point of the change I've already quoted here is that they really don't have to pay the acquisition tax. And I will quote what is still in this proposal: "The proposed provision provides for income tax exemptions for taxpayers of personal income tax who have freely acquired a co-ownerial share of immovable property from a municipality or another taxpayer whose member is this municipality or which the municipality has set up, subject to further conditions laid down in this provision, which are divorced below. By explicitly stating in the proposed provision that the acquisition of a co-ownership may take place for the purposes of this provision not only from the municipality itself, but also from the taxpayer, whose municipality is a member or a founder, this provision takes into account the fact that the municipality may, for example, be a member of a voluntary union of municipalities as a legal person or housing cooperative. As a founder, the municipality can then take part, for example, in a contribution organization." The form of the proposed resolution, which provides for the exemption of free income for taxpayers of corporate tax, is amended in Section 19b para. Article 1 (1) (g). According to point 1, one of the cumulative conditions for the exemption of income is that a subsidy was granted for the construction of residential buildings in which the municipality, or the taxpayer, of which the municipality is a member or founder, had a joint ownership interest. These subsidies were granted in 1995 and 2007, first from the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, subsequently from the Chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development by means of the Programme Supporting the Construction of Rent Flats and Technical Infrastructure and later from the budget of the State Housing Development Fund through Government Regulation No. 481/2000 Coll., on the use of funds of the State Housing Development Fund in the form of a subsidy to cover part of the costs associated with the construction of flats. Their aim was to address the urgent needs of housing in municipalities and subsequently to enable the acquisition of their own housing. The construction was normally carried out on the basis of contracts and associations concluded between the municipality and another person. As a rule, they were housing cooperatives, while in some contracts the municipality undertook to transfer its share of the housing house to the housing cooperative as a second co-owner, free of charge or for 1 crown after the period of the subsidy programme, usually 20 years later. According to the current legislation, this free income is subject to income tax, but in these cases taxation is not desirable, since it is a situation which corresponds materially to situations in which the real estate treatment of the taxpayer is restricted through registration in the real estate register so that the immovable property serves the housing needs of the taxpayer and so on and so forth. So once again, I would like to thank you, and I think this is proof that it doesn't really matter who's presenting this. I say it was across the political spectrum, and I dare say that it will help thousands and thousands of citizens in this republic, no matter who they vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u7	Thank you. It is also signed with priority law in the general debate by President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Definitely what my colleague, Mr David Pražák, spoke with is fine and I am glad that this has been achieved. I thank my colleagues, too. Well, now I'm gonna have to thank myself a little bit, because no one did it for me, Mr. Secretary, so I guess I'll start with that. I would like to say that I am happy for a large part of the things that are included in that tax mini-pack or package, as we used to say, and I dare say, quite modestly, it really is not my nature, but here I have to say that I have a significant stake in the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act in particular. I'm sure the Minister didn't admit him to me out of modesty, but that's okay, I'll admit it myself. As far as the flat-rate tax project is concerned, it was one of our government's key projects. Indeed, unfortunately, he met a little bit in time with the covid, but I still consider him successful and I am glad to speak to some of the tradesmen who take advantage of the flat-rate tax to praise it. Of course, it wasn't some dramatic number, I think we ended up at some 70, 75,000 at the time, maybe there's some sort of shift, but I'm glad there's a shift going on. Here, after this part, yes. I also agree to postpone the depreciation period accelerated, which actually follows up on what we did for the covid and voted here together. These are all positive steps. I will not talk about the partial changes that the Minister has mentioned. We may be able to say some technical things to the Committee on Budgets, as I have seen from the comments made by the Chamber of Tax Advisors, about the sanctions on the inspection reports, but they are actually technical things, and here it seems to me to be a proxy. Nor do I have any reservations about the other things he's named here, the less significant ones from the point of view of the novel. So I will be particularly concerned with the limit of compulsory VAT to 2 million and most of all, of course, with a new or amended flat-rate tax adjustment. The vast majority of businessmen and entrepreneurs perceived the original obligation of up to three different levies - now speaking what was before the introduction of the flat-rate tax, when we introduced it - both administratively and as time-consuming. There is certainly no dispute and a reduction in the administrative burden and an increase in legal certainty brought more time to the tradesmen, and that was the intention: devote yourself to what you understand, do the work that feeds you, and do not burden your head or your time and stress with administrative burdens. By introducing a flat-rate tax, the taxpayers were deprived of the obligation to file a tax return and, therefore, the report was of course relevant and therefore any reason and meaning of any possible tax control falls away. The introduction of a flat-rate tax also brought a number of traders a significant financial benefit, because let us not only look at the fact that they paid one levy, where the income tax was still worth CZK 100, but, of course, another benefit was that the minimum social contribution paid by most of these taxpayers was increased by 15%, which will then be reflected in the calculation of the pension. And of course, there's minimum health, which didn't mean they couldn't pay more. But the other benefit was that if they didn't have to run a tax record, if they didn't have to process returns and reports, they didn't have to pay for accounting services, for example. That's why we often met until it was smiling that the information didn't come from these services in particular. Which also saved them considerable resources. If you're paying for a flat-rate, you'll save it too. So the administrative burden saved, and of course it also brought financial benefits, because, as I repeat, neither tax returns nor reports are being filed under the flat-rate tax regime, there is no control coming, just businessmen and self-employed people are doing what they do best, and that is their business. Individual entities are therefore engaged in activities in which they have a comparative advantage and this increases production, and this has an impact on the production of the entire national economy. We'll probably agree on this here across the political spectrum. And I am glad that the Ministry of Finance continues under the leadership of the current minister in our project. This means that pragmatism has prevailed at least on this point, and there is no urgent need to disturb this regime just because it was our government's project. Well, that's positive news. [[18.00 hours]] The flat-rate tax scheme itself, as we have proposed, is also advantageous for the State, because it reduces the administrative complexity of the whole system and makes the system more clear. So the state doesn't have to control anything and it doesn't have to spend money on a bureaucratic apparatus. Of course we're not talking about most taxpayers, the group is still minority, but we can build on it and we can just keep going. So this amendment should be the first, the next swallow, and that is what we counted on, at least our government - that we will continue to do so. From the beginning, our government was heading to the limit of CZK 2 million for compulsory VAT, but it was not possible, and therefore I repeatedly rejected it here as Minister of Finance, proposals from the ODS, due to the valid European VAT Directive. Long-term on the ground, on the ECOFIN platform, together with other finance ministers and other Member States, we have advocated an amendment that will enable Member States to decide, at their discretion, to increase the turnover limit for the creation of the payership to exactly 2 million. It was successful, this adjustment was approved, however it should have been effective as of 1 January 2025. Before the end of our government, I therefore asked the European Commission for an exception so that we would not have to wait for this term in the Czech Republic, and then we wanted to follow the increase in the flat-rate tax limit itself. I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has reached this point, succeeded in this and mandatory payership, which is why we are discussing the amendment to the VAT Act, because - we have it here on the table - there is nothing to prevent this from happening in the long term. And it makes sense because we've tied it up, and I'm glad it's going on, they've tied VAT with the mandatory VAT payer because if you're a taxable VAT payer, then you already have other mandatory administrative tasks under the VAT Act, which means that it doesn't make sense to make compulsory payership a million and a flat-rate tax, for example, two, because there are already other administrative tasks. So it makes sense that it remained as a joined vessel. I have read in the explanatory memorandum and I think in RIA that this amendment also has an impact on public finances at a height - the Ministry of Finance estimates about 11 billion if I am not mistaken, which, by the way, is interesting, the sum you intend to prepare for public budgets by abolishing EET, there is even a little bit more. So, when we look at the value added tax adjustment, the maximum VAT deficit should be about 10 billion, i.e. at the state budget level of 6.4 billion, at the municipal level of 2.6 billion and the remaining billion at the regional level. That's how I read it from the Ministry of Finance's files. The impact of an increase in the total flat-rate ceiling on public budgets is expected to be about minus 0,6 billion, minus 0,5 at state budget level and minus 0,1 at municipal level. I would normally expect a fiery debate on the financial implications of this amendment, but he is prepared for such a - let me say folk - cat dog that this topic has completely disappeared from public space. In the government's programming declaration in the section devoted to public finances - this government - I found under the heading entitled Employee Support and Enterprise Support that the five-calice will increase the limit for compulsory VAT registration to CZK 2 million, with the possibility of applying the flat-rate tax scheme on the same line. So that's - yes, that's right - I would expect the Minister to find a little bit in his busy program for this point - I believe it's loaded, I don't want to downplay it - just more space and explain things more. I believe we will see that there will be a technical debate on the Committee on Budgets. I will suggest, I will try to invite even representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, if the Committee on Budgets agrees, certainly, it used to be customary during the last parliamentary term. I have read a number of their comments, and the government's programming statement itself does not contain any indication that any bands, groups, or a combination of revenue and expenditure, costs will be created. Unfortunately, the whole system - that is, it was originally formulated by us as user-friendly and suitable for that part of the tradesmen, which has limited information about taxes, logically - decided to complicate the Ministry under the direction of Minister Stanjura. So the intention - I'll use the term used by one tax advisor, so it's not mine, I'm borrowing it now - is to create a complicated system of a type of nuclear power plant, in quotation marks, in which traders with no years of experience in the field of taxation will surely lose. I consider this to be a great deal of damage and, at the same time, a fundamental mistake by the Minister and the Ministry, because I assume that it has followed the political task it has received. I would like to demonstrate this complication best on the passage from the Ministry of Finance's official press release. I quote: "In the first band there are CFIs with revenues up to CZK 1 million per year regardless of the type of activity and then the CFI with revenues up to CZK 1.5 million per year, if at least 75 percent of them can be used for 80% or 60% of the flat-rate expenditure. Similarly, there are up to 2 million revenues in the first margin of the CFI, if 80% of the expenditure flat rate can be applied to at least 75 percent of them. In the second band there are CFIs with annual revenues up to CZK 1.5 million regardless of the type of activity and then the CFI with income up to CZK 2 million, if 80% or 60% of them can be used as a flat-rate expenditure. The third flat-rate tax band will then be for the CFI with annual revenues up to 2 million regardless of the type of activity. Did you all understand that? Do you understand that, honourable Members? Well, I guess the minister's been in this for a while now, or I don't believe anyone has understood who's heard it for the first time. So as a person who has been living in taxes all his life, you've been... not anymore, I've already painted it, of course, but I trust you that the greatest attractiveness and added value of a flat-rate tax was that taxpayers are not needed, nor accountants, that the system is simple, clear, and people can handle it themselves. Read this text to someone who is concerned with agriculture, forester, craftsman, and see how easily they get lost in such a text. And I don't want to underestimate them, no way. The attractiveness of the flat-rate tax system itself lies in the fact that a farmer, a forester or a craftsman does not have to sit for hours over accounting or tax records, whether I speak accurately. The farmer is supposed to work in the field because he knows how to do it, the forester is supposed to work in the woods, because he can do it again, and the craftsman is supposed to stick to his hooves and not spend hours figuring out which zone, zone or group he belongs in, or didn't happen to change yesterday. [[18.10 hours]] Bottom line, you've made a mess of it. In fact, the three-band system is not a three-band system, but there are many more, and there are more, respectively, criteria. There are a total of nine different combinations of income and costs. In fact, which zone you will fall into will not only be determined by the amount of income but also by the amount of the flat-rate expenditure. Of course, it doesn't always apply. In many cases, then, it will not be possible for the taxpayer to handle the proposed system without expert assistance, which is also contrary to what the flat-rate tax explanatory report states. Traders will also find it very difficult to estimate in advance the amount of their obligations to the State and whether the flat-rate tax model will pay them at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u9	Yes. I shall ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down so that the Member may proceed. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Moreover, it is clear at this point that if the traders misjudge the situation and they will be placed in a lower band than they really should be, and the tax administrator comes at fault, the authorities will measure their tax and, at the same time, insurance. On the contrary, in a situation where a businessman is wrong, the authorities will return the difference in taxes, not insurance. As part of the comment procedure, the reply to the questionnaire from the Chamber of Tax Advisors was: This is a political decision. Thus, in a situation where a taxpayer chooses a higher band than he has to, he loses the possibility of returning a higher social premium. I believe that all this can still be explained and corrected, we are at first reading. What will it be, Minister? I saw you guys checking in, so I'd be happy if you could explain. In the comment procedure, it was stated that the non-refundable parameter in the event that the taxpayer's tax is equal to a flat-rate tax in the lower band came from a political agreement within a government coalition. Do I understand, then, that we will not be returning the funds wrongly paid, because this is a political decision? In addition, flat-rate premiums cannot be reversed back to the lower band in contrast to flat-rate income tax in the event that the taxpayer has not achieved decisive income for the given period. The whole orientation in the new flat-rate tax scheme will not only be very unclear, but in a number of cases it will be more advantageous for taxpayers, given the level of premiums in the second and third zones. The simplicity of this system is also doubtful by tax advisors, I repeat again. Moreover, if an entrepreneur exceeds the lower limit by only a few tens of thousands of crowns, he can pay the traders back to the original system of accounting tax records and apply the so-called expenditure flat-rate. I must say, Minister, that you have created a cat dog that, instead of a simple addition to a standard functioning tax system in the Czech Republic, has created a more complicated system. And now for examples. For example, a craftsman who can apply an 80 per cent flat-rate will also be included in the first band with the income of CZK 2 million and will therefore pay CZK 6 300 per month for 2023, while the accountant will fall at the same income already in the second band and will pay CZK 16 000 per month, and eventually the doctor will pay the highest rate of CZK 26 000 per month, because he can apply a 40 per cent flat-rate. I don't see logic, I don't see justice. For example, who has income below 1 million and in the course of the year exceeds this value or just a few crowns, instead of a circus of CZK 6,300 will pay CZK 16,000 and if it reaches the limit of CZK 1,500,000, it will increase to CZK 26,000 per month, which is more than four times the value. I don't know where this change occurred in the Minister's mind. I don't understand when a simple system decided to create this, as one tax advisor said, a nuclear power plant. When I advocated this flat-rate tax project as the former Minister of Finance here in this Chamber of Deputies or in the previous Chamber of Deputies, it was the ODS that prepared an amendment in which it wanted to increase the limit to 2 million, but there was no mention of three bands at the time. I recently looked up the amendment. My arguments at the time were logical, I linked it to mandatory VAT, but you didn't think about three bands for a minute at the time. [[Response from the right.]] I'm looking for him, Mr. Ambassador. There were no bands in the amendment. But the only way I'm explaining this is because you're not in opposition anymore, that you're a government party, and that's why you're just judging this thing differently. I mean, we're at first reading. Let's take some sense into the hand, invite the experts to the same table. I understand that we can't want so many taxpayers to pay 6,300, but it can be simplified, two bands can be set up, we can definitely find a mechanism that won't be this complicated. It only leads to the fact that the flat-rate tax simply stays on the numbers it's on now, which is really the least of them, or dies on its own before it's properly born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u11	Now, before I give the floor to Mr Munzar, I will read two more. [[Apologies]] President Okamura cancels his apology and Mr Michal Kučera apologises until the end of the day and tomorrow for the whole day without giving any reason. One point of fact, Mr... has no interest in applying it now, so he's withdrawing it. And I'll ask the Minister, who also volunteered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u12	Thank you for the floor. The nuclear power plant... I don't know which tax advisor wrote it, but I'd like to meet him. The system is very simple, a few numbers. Madam President, through Madam President, don't make fools of these people. For those who are using it today, nothing changes at all. We could agree on that, right? Nothing's gonna change for them, so it's okay. Let's say a few numbers. With income up to 1 million is half a million, of which 300,000 pay no tax, none because they use individual discounts that are available. Of those 200,000 roughly 70,000 entered, this year I think it was 83,000, into the flat-rate tax regime. If someone doesn't pay zero, it's up to him whether he's going to pay 6,000 and he's not going to have an administration or he's running an administration and he's going to pay zero. It's his free choice. It's none of our business. We only offer him two options. The taxpayers who have income between 1 and 2 million are 50,000, 10 percent of those who are up to 1 million, 10 percent. And for those we see as classic businessmen - craftsmen, nothing changes either. So the idea that I need a tax advisor to tell me what kind of business I have, what my flat rate is is an idea outside reality. Maybe for someone who starts a business, I can understand that. But for someone who's already in business, he knows very well if he's a freelancer, if he's 80, 60 or 40. There's no need for consultation here. It's not. And I'm ready and I'm curious about the amendments because if we want to be fair enough, and I say, it's not a law to lower taxes, so I'm really curious about how this businessman, who has an income of 600,000 and who has 80% flat rate, will have the same tax as the doctor, who has almost 2 million and 40% tax. I'm really curious how you're gonna do it. Either the first one will have what he has today, which means the doctor will pay nothing, pay 100 crowns of income tax, but it may seem fair to you, as Mrs Schillerová said, it must be fair, I do not see justice here. Or you'll approach the doctor's current tax obligations, but that's why you're going to get everyone out of that system who would have small taxes. But I'll wait for the amendment, I'm ready to debate. [[18.20 hours]] President Schillerová is deeply mistaken when she thinks the Treasury has prepared those parameters for my political assignment. Exactly the opposite. The only political assignment was from the government's programming statement, which was quoted here that we wanted to raise the limit to 2 million. The Ministry of Finance's expert apparatus came up with this proposal and had to defend it in front of coalition MPs. So it wasn't an idea and a political assignment from the finance minister's government or the ODS, but it was exactly the opposite. But when I saw how the former Minister illegally forgave VAT, it was precisely a political assignment when she decided against the Ministry of Finance's expert recommendation. It wasn't here. But I'm ready to debate rationally about those bands, about how much they're supposed to pay, let's just take these numbers, how many taxpayers we have by income, how much taxes they potentially don't pay, I say it's 300,000, 60 percent of the smallest tradesmen don't pay taxes, and we don't want to raise them taxes, there's no reason. And we'll see. The impact on public budgets is negligible. I don't know if I was talking about him, CZK 600 million, of which 500 million to the state budget and 100 million to the other public budgets. But in this debate, if another proposal comes up, other values, and I say, it's no problem to rationally have a debate, then we can count on other impacts on public budgets. The biggest impact - and it is the maximum limit - is the 10 billion increase in the limit from 1 to 2 million, and it concerns that everyone who pays will step out of that system. I think it's good to be conservative, have the worst guess, I think the reality will be a little different and that some of them will remain volunteer payers, like we have voluntary payers today among those with incomes below 1 million. But why am I not explaining this? Well, because I haven't found any political party represented in the House that would protest against an increase in the limit of CZK 2 million in the long term, except the YES movement in the last parliamentary term. Today the YES movement is in favour, we voted in favour, so I don't see why, but we can always make sure each other that there is no dispute in this - and there is no dispute, and that is a good thing. So we're focusing on a debate on flat-rate tax parameters from all over this law. Why not? I consider it right or possible, I am prepared for this debate and I look forward to it - and now I am not thinking ironically - about the debate and the calculations when it so-called increases. It's not complicated. It is not difficult, there is no tax advisor, and what President Schillerová says is unnecessary scaring and underestimating these people. They know what their income is, they know what their flat rate is. Yes, if someone gets less, what happens to the social security they pay for? Well, it's gonna count on his retirement! And that's wrong? I don't understand why it should be wrong. I think that's a good thing. We have a long-term problem - I don't mind, I say it's the choice of each of them, that one has a choice of how much to pay for the pension, and the moment it doesn't guess, it can happen, so if 12 months will pay a little more, it won't make it any worse or dramatically change his financial situation. The simplicity just stayed in it. I'm saying, we're potentially talking about 50,000 taxpayers who could enter the system at the most - if it were half of it, I would consider it a success, maybe it would be less. I don't have it gripped, and I can try to germinate it next time before second reading, if there are flat-raters, in those three flat-rates, so that we can get out of the 50,000, what's 80 percent, what's sixty percent, what's 40 percent, I'll put those numbers in, hopefully they'll be available to us to know. Of course, in every system, you'll find a border case where it's too convenient or too disadvantageous. But you have the same thing when you have 2,000,000 and 2,000 001 crowns. It's the same thing when someone says they have 1,000,000 and they just exceed it. So I don't think it's fair to have one tax for 0 to 2,000,000 income and 40 or 80 percent flat-rate. It's not cost, it's spending flats, it's totally different, the costs are real, what the businessman needs, and it's up to him to find out if he has higher costs, so he just doesn't go to the flats, because why would he tax more than he would have to. I understand from the earlier statements that there is a consensus on other parameters and other changes, which is very good. I'm ready for this. The proposal can change. I say, based on the expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance, not vice versa, there was no assignment, make three bands. It was exactly the opposite. On the contrary, I and my colleagues had to be convinced by the expert apparatus of the Ministry of Finance that this is correct and that it has logic regarding those who have been preparing tax laws for the long term. If you don't believe me, you can ask the deputy in charge how the flow of information went, whether it went top to bottom or bottom to top. And I admit that even the limits, even in the 0 to 1,000,000, even in the current system, are going to make more and someone less. That's just the way it is. And once again, when it's compared to the one who doesn't have a flat-rate, someone's gonna compare it to the employees - I don't think those cases are comparable. There is less bureaucracy in the simplicity that remains here. If we want to be fair, there will be no flat-rate tax and everyone will pay according to real income. I don't think there's any point in the smallest of them, which is why we support the flat-rate tax principle together. But then there's no justice, let's just say. Even one who has 400,000 and 800,000, this year or next year according to the current or new one, has a different tax obligation. And I haven't heard the criticisms that sounded today that it's unfair for someone with an income of 990,000, and someone with an income of 400,000. At the moment you have an 80% flat rate, in which case you have a tax base of 80,000, and in that forty percent, the tax base is much higher. But that's the way it is, there's no other way to do it. Certain injustices simply have to be there and are encrypted in the principle of flat-rate taxation. We were trying to find the interval closer to the top line, not closer to the bottom line, but of course, it can move further down the line if the House decides to do so, but it means that those with higher incomes will have more tax relief. And we don't want to lower taxes, we want to reduce bureaucracy. But it's for debate, there's no problem. I say, I look forward to the amendments, we count it together, and then we can focus on what is or is not fair. If we want absolute justice in taxes, which is, of course, nonsense, but fair justice, we must abolish a flat-rate tax. I don't think so, I think that certain injustices in this amount are worth the state, because these are people who do business here who will not seek tax relief beyond the borders who will not examine whether they have any financial incentive in another state, who will not think about moving their business from the Czech Republic somewhere else. In my opinion, they are the backbone of the Czech economy, and this small help, small help to bureaucracy will certainly help, even at the cost of simply paying less taxes than anyone else. [[Businessmen?]] There's no other way to make it up, and there's no mathematical way to model it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u13	Mr Munzar is now registered with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u14	Thank you. I want to respond to Mrs Schillerová, through you, with my factual remark. I was surprised at the beginning when the Member so actively claimed to shift the VAT limit to CZK 2 million. She knows very well that during the last parliamentary term I proposed at least six times to push the limit, six times to hear a disagreeable position here, and we even heard a dissenting position in 2019 with the accompanying resolution that called on the then government to ask for an exemption from the directive. But I am glad that you finally acknowledged our arguments, you signed up for this and sent a letter to the European Commission at the end of the parliamentary term, so I am glad for that change of attitude. But more importantly, you said here that we didn't make a proposal to shift a flat-rate tax to $2 million with three zones. I would like to point out that you are wrong, Madame, by your means. When you look at the amendment under number 6401 to print 922 in the past period, which was my proposal, it contains exactly that, although it has different parameters, but the same principle - three tax zones. And I'll explain why. Because I was also thinking at first when I prepared the amendment, that it would only shift the boundaries, but then you are facing a big dilemma - either you have to keep the border or the amount that the taxpayer would pay existing ones. That means you would have a degressive tax on it, and secondly, everyone would pay minimum social and health insurance, which means, for example, the one who makes CZK 500,000 a year, or the one who makes CZK 1,800,000, so that wouldn't be the whole way. The second thing is to choose somewhere else the limit between the 0 and the 2 million, and that means that you would raise taxes for all the current patrons and raise social and health insurance. [[Time!]] So that's not the way either. Then I'll fill it in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u15	The next one is registered with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Munzar, through Madam President, I will look at this amendment. I found other amendments, there were no bands, I'll see how you had it there, now I haven't been able to do it so quickly. Mr. Secretary, sometimes I feel like you're making a statement in public space - and believe me, I watch everyone very carefully, sometimes I comment, sometimes I don't - so sometimes I feel like the Ministry... He's kind of living there alone. For me, it was like they got a political assignment, they came up with some suggestions, then we argued, then it moved somewhere, and when we didn't agree, I decided. But I'm going to read some of your conversations - I don't know where it was, on the List, maybe I'm wrong, but it's now in a few days - I'm going to read that when a journalist asks you that the outlook for public finances, those deficits proposed by 2025, isn't very ambitious, so you're saying, "It's gonna be different." I already know, in Václav Moravec's questions, you said under 280 that there would be deficits, but in the proposal she approved quietly, the government - I had to look into it like Detective Babočka, to actually find out that the draft budget, the first proposal to be by the end of June, was in silence - I was just surprised that there was a resolution, it's a strange draft budget, it's just some parameters, I don't know if they told you that there were budget rules and that they were saying what the draft budget was supposed to look like - there I read that you're planning about 300 billion there, so that I could read it again in some of your conversation that only the Ministry officials were trying to reconcile the requirements of the chapters and that it would be different. That's not what I understand, because I've been living in it - and so I'm sure it's the right thing to do - that the Finance Minister is presenting a budget. The apparatus only does what the political assignment gets. So one minister gives one of those, one gives one of those, but he always respects the political assignment. So that's about it with the flat-rate tax. Well, I don't really believe it. I know these people, I'm not gonna call them, I'm not gonna contact any of them, don't worry about me checking it out, but at least you had to give the assignment, make it budgetaryly neutral, because the budgetary impact is really minimal, and so they came up with this option, I would understand that. Just say it like that, and I understand that you have chosen this complex mechanism to make it budgetaryly neutral. Well, I think it could be found, and it wouldn't be so much more, in the opinion of the chamber, as it pointed out, that we could just find a more reasonable solution, and I believe we can get to that. I welcome your - perhaps a handshake - we will see that we can still discuss this on the Committee on Budgets and we can try to find, of course, another solution with your apparatus of the Ministry of Finance. It's not gonna be that clear. He's not all in one type of activity. There will be combinations, there will be different variants, they can have different types of trades, there may be different expense flats. I will just read at a speed the comments made by the Chamber of Tax Advisors or, respectively, the guarantors for this tax, when they expressed themselves roughly in this way - of course I have more comments, but I will only read one of them: "The represented system of three bands and their subgroups with regard to the variability of activity and the associated percentage of flat-rate expenditure makes the proposed system for entrepreneurs to a large extent complex and in advance difficult to predict. The proposed distribution complicates the principle of flat-rate tax and may cause problems and uncertainties in practice. It can be assumed that in many cases an entrepreneur will not be able to determine the amount of flat-rate expenses without the help of an expert - I submit it, it was written by an expert, not by me, an expert who has been doing it for 30 years - which goes against the meaning of a flat-rate tax. First of all, in a situation where an entrepreneur carries out various activities where the different amounts of flat-rate tax are applied, it will not be at all easy to determine the amount of flat-rate expenditure. Even a small change in income from individual activities can cause a leap change to another zone and thus a significantly different level of flat-rate tax. Thus, the original idea on which the flat-rate tax system was built is lost, i.e. a simple and administratively undemanding system for the smallest entrepreneurs. On the contrary, thanks to more criteria that are not easily understandable for the smallest entrepreneurs, there is a virtually parallel tax system in which error is easily made. For this reason, even the various speculative negotiations cannot be excluded." I'm sending it, Alena Schillerová didn't tell it, it was written by an expert in the Chamber of Tax Advisors, an expert in this tax. From this point of view, we would consider it less problematic, for example, already discussed... and so on and so forth, through the overall income similarly. I believe that we will continue to discuss this on the Committee on Budgets, where I will ask these experts to come, so that the debate is more expert, less political. One more comment on Mr Munzar on the VAT. I'll do it again. Maybe I said it quickly at the beginning, I'm sorry. Yes, six times here, probably six times, I have rejected this proposal for simple reasons that there was already a change in the EU at the time. It was negotiated during the time when I was Minister of Finance, but with effect from 1 January 2025, so I asked for an exception and I am glad that the Ministry of Finance under the leadership of the new Minister made it. And now nothing's stopping it, nothing's stopping it - and we're gonna encourage it - to raise the limit to $2 million. I don't know what's funny about that, but that's okay. I'm glad I cheered you up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, have a good evening, I am taking the meeting and we will continue to discuss this point. In fact, Minister Stanjura came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u18	Well, I'd like to ask Mrs Schillerová, through you, to keep the poisonous saliva on someone else. Those "perhaps you've been told that there are some budget rules" and "I don't know how you run it," save it for someone else. I know exactly how you illegally went about VAT. That was your political leadership of the ministry against all the recommendations, because your guru announced it in a television debate, so against all the professional advice of all the people you value so much, the experts and the dean, I know, everyone wrote that it was illegal, but you politically decided that you would do it this way, the impact on public budgets was 5 billion. There was another way that's legal and that's legitimate, but you just bailed. And instead of going the way you changed the law, you illegally abused the Treasury Secretary's jurisdiction. Seriously, for future reference, if you're told that there are budget rules. I answer the questions of journalists truthfully, that's exactly how it was with the draft budget. So evaluate the draft budget, the one that comes to the Chamber of Deputies. Then I'm ready to defend him, explain, possibly submit to criticism. So far, it's some kind of semi-finished product. Sure, it's easier to criticize the semi-finished product, why not, but I remember your criticism of how you said the budget makeshift would cause a budget disaster. Nothing happened, and this way I could take one of your criticisms after another, so after a while it turns out that it was useless, empty, wrong, and I don't know what other word I'm not gonna use. And I'm not gonna lecture you on what laws apply or don't apply, and I'm not gonna question the Ministry of Finance's professional apparatus. The assignment was very simple, you read it here from the government's programming statement. Increase the limit to a flat-rate tax of CZK 2\ million. And I honestly admitted that it wasn't easy to convince us that their proposal was pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u19	Thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová will perform with another factual act. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u20	Thank you for the floor. I think I'll be short. I'd like to respond to the Minister. I can directly - I see he's not paying attention right now. In any case, Minister, may I have your attention, please? Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u21	The minister hears, so you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u22	The Minister hears but neglects. Fine. I just wanted to respond to your complaint against Mrs Schillerová. You know, if you want to lecture and you want to say something to someone here, Minister Šalomoun also told you that what you're about to accept is against the law. And how did he answer me? Well, he answered me by saying that the government is a collective body and was outvoted. So what are you guys playing at?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u23	Thank you. President Schillerová will now speak with priority rights. Before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. Minister Kupka apologizes today from 18.45 to the end of the day for work reasons and Minister Rakušan from 16 to the end of the day for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, don't lecture me on what I can or can't say. I am as elected as you are, and I will say to myself on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies what I see fit. So it's just for starters. And now for the illegal decision. Yes, I forgave the VAT for November and December, it was my legal decision, no - I don't know what guru you're talking about, I don't know, I don't know who you're thinking of, you're probably used to it, some guru - so nobody ordered me anything, nobody promised me anything, it was my decision, even legal. I will repeat to you once again that in my time I co-authored several comments on the tax system, that there were certain opinions, that I do not conceal, in particular that it is contrary to the law of the European Union, however, I and the programme where we were last together showed you that, in October 2021, the European Commission recommended this and at the same time, and in accordance with the Government's resolution, we prepared an amendment to the VAT Act, which you threw under the table where we wanted to set it legislatively. I stand by it. Curious about the review decision that I have not read, which you rely on - I repeat that it is your advisory body - I have made a different decision several times, and what is decisive is that what I have read in the public space, that you have abolished it ex nunc, that is, from the effect of the review decision. So what's the result? The impact, thank God, has no effect on the taxpayers except that we reduced inflation and helped them with the $5 billion because it remained in their wallets, Minister. And it doesn't have any other impact than you can keep talking about it. It was your decision, and mine was different. It's a clash of two legal opinions. And now for the budget. I don't understand what you're saying here. We're gonna fight for the budget, definitely, just like we've fought for so far, we're gonna fight again, but I don't understand what you're saying. You're telling me, let's argue about the budget we're sending to the Chamber of Deputies. Well, no doubt we will, but the budgetary rules say how to proceed. I'd be up for it, they did it their time in Slovakia if they changed. To me, the first draft budget always seemed pointless, because it did not take into account the macroeconomic prediction of August. Anyway, there was a whole bunch of things I couldn't put in there because they were basically not clarified, like salaries. I understand that, but that's a legitimate debate that can be conducted. It sucks, let's change the rules. I have to say, I'd be willing to listen to it. Let's talk about the budget that he'll send -- maybe we can talk about another date, we can go back to spring so we don't have the problem that happens every year in the election year, let's talk about it. I'll consider that legitimate. If you answer me this way, I'll say yes, I understand as former finance secretary after four years. But the way you answered me - I'm sorry, I don't want to dehonest you - it's cheap as you said to me: let's not talk about that. I know it's kind of annoying, the budget, but the budget rules deal with it that way. Slovák used to, and I used to have fun with the former Finance Minister - I think it was Kažimír - and he said to me at the time: We changed it in Slovakia because we had it the same way and it was useless. So let's talk about it, but don't answer me that you don't actually have to do it, because unfortunately you have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-008-008.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Mr. Secretary? In the end, no, neither does the rapporteur. There have been no proposals that we should vote on. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers from the lobby. We would now proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 21, 140 Members and Members, for 135, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? It's not like that. I am of the opinion that we have ordered this press to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. I'm done discussing this press. We would now proceed to discuss the next point, and that is
