ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the second day of the 20th session of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I say that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the meeting: Markéta Pekarová Adamová to half one - foreign trip - I mean morning hour, Bělor Roman from 13:00 to 16:00 for work reasons, Ondřej Benešík - foreign trip, Aleš Dufek from 6.00 to 16.00 - health reasons, Martin Exner - foreign trip, Stanislav Fridrich from 0.00 to 20 hours for work reasons, Martin Hájek - family reasons, Igor Hendrych from 8.00 to 15.00 - health reasons, Václav Král - family reasons, Kučera Michal from 14 Voborská for work reasons, Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš until 12.30 - Milan Vondrák, Jana Pastuchová from 12.00 to 18.00 - health reasons, Marie Pošarová - foreign trip, Lucie Potůčková from 14 hours - family reasons, Petra Quittová - health Tureček, Karel Rais - health reasons, Jiří Milada - health reasons, Wenzl Robert - health Ženíšek, Vlek Nurek from 10.00 - health reasons. The members of the government apologize: Mikuláš Bek - working reasons, Anna Hubáčková within 9 hours - health reasons, Jan Lipavskýý within 10 hours - working reasons and Michal Šalomoun - working reasons. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. No amendment or addition of an approved programme may be proposed under the Rules of Procedure Act. And now we will continue the negotiations. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u2	I understand we've had a rough day and night, I understand. I was grateful that I could use the four hours of recess. However, without wanting to put things on the table or cause problems, there's no substitute for the promoter. We have already accepted that this Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance does not present to us the Minister of Health - a new era - but simply the Minister of Finance should be here as a representative of the petitioner. [[A note from the news desk.]] Well, I know it's true, I know something about it, Mr. rapporteur. I know something about this, through Madam President. So let me just ask -- I understand there may be some technical reasons why he left, but could we be told when he'll be back? Because he should be present so that he can react then of course, logically. For example, I have prepared a speech that mainly concerns finance, because I am dedicated to mine - that is also his, so I believe we will talk about it, but he needs to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest we cut the meeting for five minutes, which means 9:09, and we'll try to get ahold of the plaintiff. Thank you. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9.09. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 9.05 to 9.09 hours.]] Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, the break has come to an end. I see the plaintiff here, and I would ask him if he could take the floor at the plaintiff's table. However, the Minister insists on being in the O.R. And now we continue, with priority rights, President Andrej Babiš is signed in. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'm done with the mental health reforms. That's a real problem. We had reform, which means we wanted an English model, we wanted to help people with mental health problems, help them mainly in their home, not lock them up in Bohnice and put drugs in them. It seems so, and it is completely absurd that the people who worked for the state have been labeled to be from Babiš. Mrs. Schillerová worked at the Financial Administration, didn't work at Agrofert or with me. And there are so many people like that. And the people who wanted to contribute to the reform, so the fact that we were working on it is actually disqualifying for them. Many honest officials who worked for this state had to leave because they were actually working with Babiš. Well, that's a really weird attitude. I would very much like the Minister to continue the reform. That's very important. And Covid gave everyone a hard time. There aren't enough child psychiatrists today. You wait there for a year, your parents are desperate, psychiatrists aren't. And if you can get a date for your baby and you want another date, he'll say, "I don't have time, I have so many patients I can't make it." So the Health Department should identify which professions we don't have, and then invent a motivational system. We don't have radiologists, we don't have pediatricians, we don't have pediatricians. So that's the problem. Mental health reform - I hear it's over. All the people involved were marked: you worked with Babiš, so you're out of luck. Unbelievable. Home care. Domestic care has been significantly underfunded in the past and, at its expense, other areas such as hospitals have been preferred. Our government has come up with a new concept of home care. The YES movement pushed for a significant increase in home care payments. Between 2017 and 2021, the reimbursement of the domestic care segment doubled from CZK 1.9 billion to CZK 3.8 billion. From 1 January 2022 home care can indicate a wider range of doctors, such as outpatient specialists, emergency doctors, or emergency reception, and nurses in home care have gained greater competence, for example, to prescribe medical aids to patients, but also to be more independent in providing health care in their own social environment. For vehicles of domestic care providers, we have obtained an exemption from the ban on standing. Maybe petty, but important to them. For further development of palliative and spiritual care. In the Czech Republic, about 70 percent of patients still die in hospitals. But the vast majority would like to experience their last moments in the family circle. Each patient should be able to choose an environment where they spend their lives with an incurable disease. That is why the promotion of palliative care and its development were one of our other key topics. We focused on increasing the availability and quality of palliative care in the patient's home environment and launched the project of its support. Compared to the years 2018 to 2020, the number of patients who survived at home thanks to mobile hospices has more than doubled. By 2020, it was 5 874 patients. Palliative care has also been successfully solved by helping the pilot project in six hospitals. Seven patients were in care at the beginning, over 3,000 at the end of 2020. Since 2022, insurance companies have been paying for teams in 25 hospitals. In hospitals, we have also developed support for spiritual care, which is not only intended for severely ill patients and seniors, it also serves their family members or survivors. We supported the activities of hospital chaplains. Next - support for homeless care. We have launched a programme to support the provision of health and social services to persons without shelter and persons at risk of loss of shelter. During the implementation of the project, 2,166 homeless people were treated or taught. In addition to treatment, the programme included prevention of the use of addictive substances and improved awareness of infectious diseases. Further - support for volunteering. The involvement of voluntary lay assistance in the healthcare system is common abroad. With us, this area was still in the background. Therefore, in June 2019 the Ministry of Health launched a three-year project aimed at setting the conditions for anchoring and professional volunteering management in hospital health facilities. Air Rescue. Well, that's a historically interesting story. We have also substantially improved the services of the air rescue system. In the past, air rescue tenders were accompanied by clientelism and various problems. For various reasons, the selection procedures had to be repeated. We have been preparing the contract transparently from the start. We have announced a tender and on the basis of long-term preparation we have managed to set demanding but also fulfillable conditions for applicants. The selection procedure resulted in the coverage of the entire Republic, including the provision of night flights and special activities, a pod under the helicopter. In doing so, we saved a billion crowns for a larger range of services, and we selected the new air rescue operators with almost an annual advance. For further - compensation for the damage caused by vaccination. Knowing the need to support compulsory vaccination where it is really necessary, we have passed a law that states that all who have suffered injury to health due to compulsory vaccination will be compensated by the State. It's the right move. If the State provides for vaccination as mandatory, it should also be responsible for its possible complications and we have corrected that. The hospital food revolution. Food is an important part of health care provided in hospitals and is closely related to patient satisfaction. After 65 years, the standard for eating patients in hospitals changed to match the 21st century. The patients are thus given a tasty, healthy and nutritionally balanced diet. I can confirm that, I've been lying in IKEM for over a week, and the quality of food is improving across the country. [[9.20 hours]] Health has really been a priority for me, and I've been meeting people who have major health problems in families. And that's how I met Mr. Majzlík. And it was March 26, 2017. I was the finance minister in Sobotkův's government. That was two months before he fired me when Mr. Majzlík informed me of his daughter Martina's huge problems. Three days later, I wrote on Facebook: I am in favour of legalizing medical cannabis and paying off insurance companies. And I showed pictures. This is Martina Kafková, a beautiful girl. She was married, worked as a designer and taught handicapped children to play guitar in her spare time. Then one day she tripped on a flat sidewalk and the doctors diagnosed her with multiple sclerosis at the age of 27. The body gradually began to testify to the service. No medications that she was prescribed helped, some even harmed her. Martina ended up in a wheelchair, her husband left her, but my dad and my mom stayed brave. Until she was 50 years old, alone as pensioners, they took care of her, carried her, helped with all that was needed. This year they finally - it was 2017 - accepted her into a specialized institution where she lives. People sometimes think that multiple sclerosis is just muscle dysfunction, that you just lie there. Wrong. Martina began to suffer from such cramps when she felt that her bones would break in her body. In that case, a person has a fatal anxiety that he can't breathe, and the doctors couldn't help because more pills would kill her. It was pure terror, describing her father, whom Martina begged to help her with suicide. And then she tried a cannabis cigarette from a friend. The cramp passed, friends began to carry Martina konopí regularly. It was something that finally worked, unlike synthetic drugs. Then my dad started growing cannabis for her himself. Then our cops told him they'd lock him up. Martina even gained weight, even if only 40 kilos. And here's where the catch begins: growing cannabis - even for its own use - is illegal in our country. It's possible to buy it. It would cost Martina 64 000 crowns a month when it comes to foreign preparations, or 23 000 if it comes from the Czech Republic. And Mr. Majzlík would be worth 500,000 a year. And while it is cannabis that separates Martina from total hell and life as far as possible, the health insurance company refuses to pay him off. The year is 2017. Her father has already been around, called, traded over 20 institutions, including the government, the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, the cops. Nothing happened. While we have 25,000 people with this horrible disease, 4,000 are similar to Martina. So I decided to write a letter to the Minister of Health, consult with the doctors, come up with a proposal to help these people. If the state forbids the cultivation of cannabis in the garden for its own use, then let all who need medical cannabis pay it in full. So please, if you have someone in your neighborhood who has provenly benefited from medical cannabis to improve your health, write your story here in your commentary, because the human story is the fittest. Well, what happened next? First meeting - March 2017. I said it's not possible, we have to help these people. I met Mr. Majzlík again in February 2018. I invited him to the Office of the Government to resolve this problem again, and not only me as former Prime Minister, but there was also the Minister of Health and Director of the SÚKL and also the Government's advisor on drug policy, Mrs Vedralová. And after less than an hour, we all agreed on a solution that has been going on ever since. The price of medical cannabis for patients decreased to one-tenth of the total price of this medicine, and 90 percent are paid by health insurance companies. We also agreed that patients who need up to 30 grams a month would not need a doctor's confirmation for their collection at the pharmacy. In 2017, treatment cannabis was taken from a pharmacy by 26 patients and was issued by a total of 3.66 kilos. Thanks to this change of ours, everything has changed. Medical cannabis is no longer a cure for the rich. Last year, over 4,400 patients were already taking medical cannabis, and by November 2021, pharmacies issued it 99 kilos. So 2017 - 3.6 kilos, 2021 - almost 100 kilos. And 3. 8. 2019 I wrote and put a photo of Mr. Majzlík on Facebook and it was great. I was happy because, in short, thanks to Mr. Majzlík, an ordinary citizen, I felt that I had done something for those people. And Mr. Majzlík wrote to me, sent me a photo and said, "Hello, Prime Minister, I promised you that when the journey to medical cannabis for Martina was over, he would let you know. So that's what happened. Today my wife and I picked up 180 grams of medical cannabis from the Czech company Elkoplast in the pharmacy of the hospital in Strakonice. It's been a little long because there's been some problems somewhere whose origins I don't know in detail. Just since May there has been no treatment cannabis in pharmacies with a balanced ratio of THC-CBD, but it is now and I would like to thank you very much, and I will repeat that you were the first high-ranking politician to stand up for one completely disabled woman and her elderly parents at a time when it wasn't easy. And here it says: At that time various Kalousk could accuse you of aiding the spread of drugs and unfortunately it is still a lot of people who would listen to him about us, about those who go regardless of their problems to what they think is right. They're cool. He added a picture. Why am I talking about this? I met Mr. Majzlík for the third time this Sunday. No, it was Saturday. Mr. Majzlík informed me that he received a report from Israel that at one of the clinics there they are performing a very successful experimental treatment with severely affected patients with multiple sclerosis and they are patients who are completely paralyzed. Israel is unbelievable, we really should learn everything from them. And when I say paralysis, it means they can't move a finger on their hands. Those patients started to administer a totally miniature dose of crushed lysohlávka mushrooms twice daily. Although these fungi contain psilocybin and psilocin psilocin, the doses are so small that the psilocybin and psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin psilocin do not show any effect in psilocin patients. At the end of last year, one of the doctors who conducted this experimental treatment appeared on Israeli television with the fact that two of those patients, the participants of this treatment, were walking again. This information was provided to Mr. Majzlík by our world-famous scientist, Professor Lumír Ondřej Hanuš, whom I met when I was in Israel, and so I know that he is a man who would in no way spread any nonsense. I guess Mr. Majzlík isn't one of those people who could stop something when it comes to the health and life of his loved ones, so he checked it out with an experiment. He didn't want to tell me what kind of attempt he was trying to make me uncomfortable. He came to me with the idea that he needed to push through this experimental treatment to deal with some of your research institutes, clinics, or universities, and he wanted to know if there was anything I could do to help with it when I was so greatly helping people who needed medical cannabis to treat themselves. It's gonna be hard. Of course, I'm no longer Prime Minister, I'm an ordinary MP. I'm a slapping shot for the media, of course, but this is 25,000 people with multiple sclerosis. [[9.30 hours]] Mr. Majzlík here describes how he's helping Martina with the lysohlávkas. Can you imagine, colleagues, that you have a child - here's a picture of, 21. 12. 2017, Martina's hand is closed like this. [[shows]] And that's an attempt to open your hands with effort. And after Mr. Majzlík helped her with this method, lysohlávka, so here's a picture of March 22nd, not March 28, 2022 - an attempt to open her hands with a slight effort. So in five years, Martina did this. Can you imagine we can't do that? This? Five years from now. Hell. So that is why I would like to call on Minister Válek to help those people who are unfortunately doomed to their fate and to improve their lives. To give money for the research because I think those people deserve it. So much for Martina's medical cannabis. And that's why I say the finance minister says there's enough money in health care insurance. I understand him. When I was Minister of Finance, I didn't want to give money to state insurance people, and we argued with Nemecek, and then Ludvík came along, so we agreed. And I kept arguing: you have big balances on your accounts. But according to my information, the insurance companies will basically have only 25 billion balances on their accounts by the end of the year. And if there's a plan to reduce the contribution to state insurance, I don't think it's good. And of course, the burden on insurance companies will be great, because of course no one was counting on Putin to do that horrible thing and attack Ukraine and that so many refugees coming to us who obviously need medical care too. That is why it is good for health care to continue to receive money. And, of course, the arguments that we're in debt, we've dealt with the Minister x times. The Ministry of Finance itself says that despite the gross economic and health-related crisis, all major international agencies have confirmed their ratings of the Czech Republic during 2021, including the maintenance of stable outlooks. Credit rating agencies regularly notice the healthy and stable banking sector in addition to low levels of debt and robust economies. So even in the debt trend, we've already explained that Mrs. Schillerová was borrowing ahead on good terms. [[si]] The other thing I've been doing is the cancer project of the National Cancer Fight. And I had a speech here. And it was in the time of the covid, it came delta, and we prepared the project. And again, there is no vaccine against cancer. Cancer is the second most common cause of death ever. Each year, almost 10 million people around the world die because of it, and cancer is expected to be the main cause of the deaths of European Union citizens in 2035. Not to mention the economic impact. In addition to the cost of oncological treatment, indirect overall economic effects of cancer associated with premature deaths or loss of productivity are estimated at $1.16 trillion per year. The overall economic impact of cancer in Europe exceeds EUR 100 billion per year, which is about CZK 2.5 trillion, about a trillion more than our entire budget. In the Czech Republic alone, more than 85 000 of our fellow citizens are getting cancer each year, and some 27 000 are succumbing to this disease. The sad fact is that the number of deaths from oncological diseases in the Czech Republic is higher than the average in the European Union. The malignant tumors are among the diseases that can be prevented to a large extent. More than half of cancer deaths can be prevented. Various preventive and screening programmes reduce not only mortality but also save costs for very expensive treatment of advanced stages of the disease. Unfortunately, during the pandemic, especially at the time of the biggest attack on our hospitals, there was only emergency medical care. This means that although there has been no reduction in oncological treatment as such, the number of preventive examinations and controls of already cured patients has fallen due to the pandemic on the other hand. In addition, the strain of patients with covid in medical facilities and patients' concerns to go to the hospital for examination caused an extension of diagnostics of new recurrent oncological diseases. According to the National Health Services Register data, up to 17 percent less screening was carried out in 2020 compared to 2019. If covid doesn't draw a line over the budget again, we'll settle the blackout within a year or two tops. - That, of course, is the declaration then. Prevention and screening are really crucial. But it's not easy to overcome the fear of an examination. Yes, I was talking about it, that when I had PSA ten and a half, I had a rough nights, because having the feeling that you have cancer and you can die is obviously not an ideal condition. And all the more, yes, someone can say that I have a conflict of interest, I'm involved. And that's why we need to keep doing this. So the National Cancer Program we created by 2030, for which we got the money, for that oncology, was 15 billion in the Recovery Fund. And now, yes, everyone's taking it, so that's Babišův's project, so that's actually again, so we're gonna do everything we can to make sure it's not. I don't understand. I don't understand why people can't have great and best care because of their hatred of Babiš. So the project, which, especially the Czech Cancer Institute, I imagined we'd build on a green meadow, it'd be like the best centers in Norway, Spain, Paris, Texas. So I think it would be great and it would be the best cancer hospital in the world. I am convinced of this because we really have the best, some of the best, but I am convinced that the best doctor in the world, and in Europe certainly, unbeatable. And that's why citizens and paramedics deserve this project. [[9.40 hours]] I've been doing this since 2020, and I've gathered about 15 of our best oncologists for the table. Yes, the Czech Oncological Society is here. There's always a problem with those clean oncologists fighting against those oncologists specialists or those who aren't just oncologists, but they have some specialty, and they're doing oncology. That's why it didn't work out in Austria, for example, because everyone had a fight and they didn't have it. They don't have it. Then came the idea to make this great prospectus, this prospectus. [[He's showing the brochure.]] This brochure was to be given to citizens. He was late, but they didn't get him because the current coalition said it was Babišův's campaign. We've been promoting this brochure on networks, and it's great. I realized, of course, that it would be a problem, that if Babiš was there, they would say it was a campaign. But again, when I invented it, when I organized it, and when the government did it all for a few crowns, I think it cost about CZK 40,000, the whole script, but of course there was a lot of printing costs. And that's what insurance companies should have done. Well, it was before the election, so here they were screaming, especially Mr. Jurečka, that it was a campaign. So I figured, if I invented it, why couldn't I be there? No? I originally thought it would be logical if I were on the front page. But I thought, yeah, they're gonna scream, so I took the last page. I remember when we had a press conference, so we gave it to the press. They probably didn't really care, so they didn't click on the last page, and they didn't find out that Babiš was there because they'd be screaming first. So here on the first page is Adam Vojtěch, the best Minister of Health in my opinion. A decent man. Nice. It would take some butcher for the D.O.D. to finally get this place fixed. But as far as I know, the new coalition is preparing a new Civil Service Act, so it can no longer happen that there was a state secretary who actually ran it parallel to the Ministry of Health, and when Vojtěch was on vacation, he was like a minister. That was really hell. But I can see that you're doing well, that you can change state secretaries too. We couldn't do it. The question is, who are you gonna put in there, but I don't think I'm gonna comment on that. [[A note from the diaper.]] Yes, but it took six months. And it was hell. So what are we saying in this brochure? Adam Vojtěch: There are words that will cause chills as soon as we say them. We would hardly look for a disease that causes more fear and a sense of helplessness than cancer. Moreover, when it comes to us and our loved ones, the doctor's diagnosis has the power of a devastating tornado. For most people who listen to it, it's still a reaction, as if they've been collapsing their whole lives like a house of cards. The truth is, especially with the current state of medical science, that by far not every cancer revealed leads to the worst conceivable end. It is in this context that more than 27 000 annual deaths cannot be taken for granted. I say this with full knowledge of the fact that about half of them may not happen. Proven they're completely useless. In most cases, they are the result of late detection, the result of some frivolity on the part of patients. - I'm shocked to ask my colleagues if they go to prevention. Some say I haven't been to a doctor in two years, I don't go, I'm afraid he'll find out something and all that nonsense. The doctor may intervene when the patient finds him in time. At one pole there are people who regularly and unnecessarily fill waiting rooms with the slightest little things, on the other, who overlook the symptoms of thinking that it will somehow fix itself. Let me make a comparison to practically everyone. Once you hear the strange sound of your car's engine, you'll soon find a mechanic. On the other hand, we often ignore the clear signals our own body gives us. Our most precious possession. So let me put in a good word for him now. Please don't leave a single hint unnoticed, the only change in your body. Take advantage of the information, they are now more accessible than ever in the past. Feel free to watch a little more. There is less evil if the doctor then dispels your doubts as unnecessary than you arrive to him five minutes after twelve. Please bear in mind that the worst cancers are next to the incurable ones, and those who have become incurable have become unnecessary. And that's why there's a motto on the brochure: if it means late. Don't underestimate prevention, every third of us will get cancer, and one in four will die from it. On the other hand, right here, we have Director Žluťák, the Cancer Institute, who says, "The worst cancer is the one that came out of nowhere." Masaryk's Cancer Institute is the only hospital in Bohemia that is specialized. There's great doctors in there. There are great nurses there, I say hello to Petra and Míša. And my foundation donated a special probe to this institute to prevent pancreatic cancer. The pancreatic cancer is final, unfortunately genius Steve Jobs also died of it. And it's interesting when the $3 million machine got the hospital, so the patients who... Real pancreas is somewhere in the back, you can't see, they were treated for things that weren't about pancreas, and now it's found out it's pancreas. So great doctors. I was there for a biopsy, and it's a great service. Yes, it's for money, but it's also that those firms should take care of their employees. They should pay them, and those who don't have it should just have the option. This brochure then contains such an overview. Here are the women who are most at risk of the tumor. It's divided by age, you see a percentage in women, it's from 20 to 90 years or more. [[He's pointing.]] In men, of course - the most common is breast cancer and prostate cancer. All this can be prevented. Another oncologist, Professor Jaroslav Štěrba. The minister already fired him, but he wasn't a grandmother either. And he says: You cannot completely prevent your children from getting sick with a malignant tumor in the future. But you can significantly reduce this risk. Children's oncology, it's hell. Little babies have cancer. Little one. Professor Štěrba, I don't know how many years it's been, maybe ten or fifteen years, I wasn't in politics, I wanted a navigational device for brain surgery by a little baby who's operating on a thousandths of what I don't know. It cost 12 million. I was intrigued, I was there, I saw it, so I bought it from the foundation. For $6 million. If a hospital bought it, it'd cost twelve. He's a great doctor. From the history of who ran the hospital in Bohunice, we could talk about this here for a long time. He is visited by parents from Slovakia who are desperate because there is no such care in Slovakia as in the Czech Republic. Everyone goes there and begs him to help them. [[9.50 hours]] So what does Mr. Štěrba say? He worked as head of the pediatric oncology clinic, where the principal was. Now he's been called off. Not for me, I hope. But of course it's interesting that all ministers are from the same hospital. Minister Válek was his subordinate. Minister Blatný, when I was looking for the minister and I had to get him in three hours, he was also his subordinate. So everything's from Bohunice. And Professor Štěrba says: Everything begins as a child. As a child, it is based on how healthy a person will be in adulthood. This also applies to the risk of cancer. Teach your child to live in a way that does not cause unnecessary harm. Don't expect school or anyone else to take care of it, dear parents. Of course, children are the meaning of life for us, the most important thing. The main tool you have for this is your own example. In a non-smoking family, it is easier to accept a child as being normal not to smoke. The same goes for alcohol. Try to eat healthy. If the child is obese, he is very likely to be obese even in adulthood. And obesity significantly increases the risk of oncological diseases, especially in women. Sport, preferably together. A surprisingly significant part of the tumors is due to infection. Some people can be prevented by vaccination. Let your children, girls and boys vaccinate against infectious hepatitis and HPV in time - that's the virus. Do not avoid even more sensitive topics in communication with children. Girls from the age of 15 should start self-examination of the breast. From a similar age, it is appropriate to self-examination of the testicles. When to be alert? Tumors at child's age are quite different from adults, and most of their first symptoms are not significant or noticeable. Pay attention to your child. In pediatric oncology, the first step to correctly naming the problem is often the parent's feeling that the child is "someone else" - his behavior has changed, otherwise he responds. A doctor should pay attention to such a signal. If the usual problem does not respond to the usual treatment at the usual time, it should be thought of an unusual cause, i.e. the tumor. Take preventive examinations with a child's doctor, even with teenage children. Among other things, a pediatrician should monitor the course of puberty. When genetics play a role. The profiling of tumours in children is not recommended due to the different biology of tumours in children. A program similar to breast cancer screening, for example, does not make sense in early age, as childhood tumors grow significantly faster and the intervals of examinations would have to be disproportionately common. However, it is necessary to target children from families with a confirmed or highly probable genetic oncological burden. The genetic cause is evident in 10 to 15 percent of paediatric tumours. - That's why I said family doctor and primary care. - It can be families where oncological disease occurs at a relatively young age in more than one family member or more rare tumors occur. In that case, a pediatrician should send you to a specialised medical genetics department where he evaluates the risk. Even cured children need care. The success of the treatment of paediatric cancer patients has improved dramatically. If I remember correctly, his department's success rate was up to 90 percent over the years. Unbelievable. It's pediatric oncology. We have one of the best in Europe. At present - yes, it says here - almost nine out of ten of such sick children are surviving at present. Yes, exactly, nine out of ten. Nine out of ten. Amazing. 90 percent. However, they remain at a significantly higher risk of developing another tumour in adulthood. Therefore, they should be monitored for life. So, what can you do for your children, dear parents? Take them for regular examinations to see a child's doctor. Let them vaccinate against HPV and infectious jaundice. Secure them a non-smoking home. Make sure they eat healthy and have enough movement. Be aware of them, and if you are uncomfortable with their development, consult your doctor. Protect them from the sun. And when I turn the page, we're at Professor Arenberger's, who says, pay attention to the skin of everything that's different and obvious between the others. It's better to come to a dermatologist ten times in vain than once late. Mr. Arenberger is a skin doctor, chairman of the Czech Dermatonerological Society. Among other things, he specializes in the treatment of skin tumours and the promotion of their prevention. He lectures on these tumors at international congresses. It introduces new drugs that improve the prognosis of patients with melanoma. Every year Stan organizes an event for the public against melanoma, when he and his colleagues in improvised offices in the squares and business centres investigate all interested birthmarks. And Mr. Arenberger, as is known, and I'm sure he regrets it when I offered him an offer to become Minister of Health, so there was hell in his life. And the media wiped him out because he inherited the assets and the fields. And you know all that. That's what our media environment is good at. Everyone. So what does Mr. Arenberger say? By the way, he's got a machine, it's incredible where you get into that machine, and there's a computer, and it actually scans all your birthmarks, pigment spots. And that's going to be saved. And if you go in six months, the computer will show the difference. And of course it's a problem - skin cancer. Tumors on the skin can be noticed. The number of patients with malignant skin tumors in the Czech Republic is increasing. On the other hand, however, the number of those dying from these diseases has been reduced. It is also because people begin to watch their skin more closely. Tumors on the skin have a huge advantage - you can see them. You yourself can notice that something is not right, and in time to respond to it. It's mostly melanoma. If this tumor is detected early, it is curable in the vast majority of patients. Yet more than 400 people die from it in the Czech Republic every year. Most of them because they came to the doctor late. Enlargement of pigment mark into the area, change of colour or elevation above the skin level, all this should lead you to the dermatologist's office, respectable citizens. Risky are also signs with diameters of over 5 millimeters, bleeding, itching, with red hem or sharp edges. Melanoma can also have an unusual location, it can manifest itself as, for example, a black non-growth stain under the nail, it can even be in the eye even. Do not delay seeing a doctor. Time is running fast here. What is an easy-to-use problem today can endanger your life in a few months. You don't have to wait for Stan against melanoma. Every year, there are so-called Melanoma Tents in shopping centers or squares where skin doctors investigate passers-by. It really saves some people's lives. There are long lines. - We saw it on Václavák last time. There was an incredible line. That's where I was at a press conference with the professor, he wasn't a minister yet. For such an examination, however, you can order for a dermatologist at any time. Everything will take place in much more comfort for you and for the doctor and it is possible to arrange for appropriate treatment if necessary. [[10.00 hours]] Immunity plays a role. Immunity plays a big role in skin tumors. That is why there is a greater risk to people who have impaired their defenses. Typically, they're transplant patients who take immunosuppressants. They too should be observed in a particularly consistent manner. And it's not just melanoma. In connection with the skin, it is mainly Melanoma. But the most common type of skin cancer is basiloma. It leads to death very rarely. Yet it is considered destructive because it can cause significant disfigurement, and it is mostly found on the head and neck. About a fifth of the skin tumors are spinalium. It usually has the appearance of a rigid, shiny, shiny bud in the color of the skin, which grows rapidly. The vast majority of these tumors are successfully treated with a small surgical procedure in which the unit is removed. Rare, but very aggressive, is the cell carcinoma of Merkel's cells. It has the appearance of a red to blue knot. Protect yourself from the sun - always and everywhere! Yes, we all want a nice color, we go to the seaside. I think our citizens have good opportunities to go on vacation to the sea, thanks to the fact that our government has given them so much money, reduced taxes and supported them. And the most important risk factor for skin cancer is exposure to sunlight. Protection from the sun is therefore the main way to reduce the likelihood of developing these diseases. It's necessary to start with the children. Almost half of the lifetime dose of ultraviolet radiation is given to a child. Half a lifetime's benefit, that's interesting. Every burn remembers the skin. Sunbathing is not the way to beauty. The sun's exposed skin ages faster, loses elasticity, early wrinkles, dark spots, and overgrained places appear on it. Even sunbathing in solariums isn't healthy. Children and adolescents should not go to them at all. Also, there's no point in attending solariums to raise vitamin D levels. Because of their radiation spectrum, these devices are hardly affected. We should protect the skin whenever the sun shines. Creams must have a sufficient protection factor. In the city at least 20, by the sea more. Consider that the cream must be applied quite a lot. More than most people think. Count, yes, here, let's not forget that the sun is sunbathing underwater. Even under some clothes. Buy children special beach clothes that are airy while protecting the whole body. So what does Professor Arenberger, the skin tumor specialist, say? What can you do for yourself? Protect yourself from the sun, it has meaning in every age, in children above all. Use protective creams and textiles. Avoid the harsh sun altogether. Don't go to the solarium. I apologize to the solar operators, but that's what the professor says. Check regularly. You can check the difficult places available with a mirror, and even better with a person close to you. For example, see www.melanom.cz. Whatever's wrong with your skin, show the skin doctor. So I wish you a nice and safe summer by the sea. So what else do we have here? Professor Jan Daneš, CSc, screening specialist, breast cancer diagnostics. What's he saying? Breast cancer is not a woman's concern. There is an effective weapon - prevention, especially mammographic examinations. Mr. Daneš is an expert in radiology, he is one of the founders of the Czech screening programme for early diagnosis of breast cancer and devotes his energy to making this programme as quality and most effective as possible. He is a member of the Board of the Radiological Society, works as Vice-President of the Association of Mamodiagnostics of the Czech Republic and Executive Vice-President of the Commission for Breast Cancer Screening of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic. It also participates in the preparation of European recommendations on breast cancer diagnosis and screening. And what does the professor say? It's a shame not to use mammography. Prevention saves lives. Breast cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors of our women, around 7,200 new cases are found annually in the Czech Republic. In all developed countries, the number of new diseases is growing. The cause is a number of, and we can only influence a few. This includes particularly unhealthy lifestyles, stress and hurriedness, diets with higher fat content and restrictions on fresh fruit and vegetables, maternity, restrictions on movement in fresh air, obesity, alcohol use, smoking, long-term use of hormones, harmful food and the environment. The great news is that the mortality rate for this cancer in our country has been declining over the long term. This is mainly related to prevention and diagnosis of more early stages. It also has an improved treatment effect. The treatment of women with first-stage breast cancer is almost 100%. 100%! And that's why it's important. The professor says: Go to mammography regularly. The Czech Republic could be even more successful in the treatment of breast cancer if more women went to screening mammography. So far it's not enough, just a little over 63 percent. In developed countries, this is up to 90 percent. So, ladies, please go to the mammography! And those two nurses, my friends, from Žluťák, hopefully no one's gonna hurt them, they're doing lectures all over the Republic today, and preventing basic risks. Breast cancer, prostate cancer, and how to find out you have a problem. So only 63 percent. And other than that, it's 90. Screening program takes place from the 45th year of age every two years. If you have a recommendation from a physician or gynecologist, it is fully covered by health insurance companies. At the screening sites, they have state-of-the-art devices that are completely safe, plus teams of experienced paramedics work here. They are able to complete further tests if necessary, in particular sonography or tissue sampling. Doctors work closely with other specialists, so they will take care of you in case of tumor detection. Is any of the center crowded? Choose another quality workplace with shorter ordering times. So here's the headlins the professor says. What can you do for yourself? Don't delay motherhood. I think that's what I've been talking about in the past, and of course we're living in a different era today, and I understand that women want to have a career and so on, but here the experts say that the ideal age is below, somewhere around 25, 26. Our average is now over 30, but of course we live in a different time. So what else does the professor say? Stop smoking and skip or limit alcohol. Well, that's a challenge, of course. Reduce overweight and exercise regularly, preferably in fresh air. I do not know if you know that we are the third worst within the European Union or Europe as part of obesity. The worst is Great Britain, then some Nordic country, now I don't know if Lithuania, and we're third. That's wrong. It is a pity that the new government - I have not heard any minister say the word sport. Important. Eat healthy, limit fat and add vegetables and fruits. Change your lifestyle, reduce stress, separate work and rest, allow yourself enough sleep in complete darkness. Do a regular self-examination of your breast once a month since reaching adulthood - those nurses from Brno would have taught you how to do it, but you will certainly be able to do it alone - a week to ten days after menstruation. If you feel a lump in your breast, do not underestimate it and contact your doctor. The same applies if you notice the side difference of the drawn space, redness or discharge from the breast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u5	Mr President, I am sorry, perhaps I should lead you to a little point in this case, or perhaps reading a leaflet is not quite the case with the point at hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u6	That's how we talk about health, I think it's important for people that we want our people not to die of cancer. Okay, well, you didn't like it, I thought you might be interested, but okay. So here we have - Professor Cibula: A malignant cervical tumor should not exist in an advanced country such as the Czech Republic. That's important. I think it's important that people know. A lot of people are still dying in our country. And we're talking about health care, so I think I'm talking to the point. Every year about 400 women die from cervical cancer in the Czech Republic, a large part of them at a young age. They're unnecessary casualties. Medicine gives us a unique opportunity to eradicate this cancer. Even now, in some countries like Australia or Finland, they are among the so - called rare tumors. We know the cause of this tumor, which is a viral infection with human papillomavirus, we can recognize and remove precancerous conditions in the cervix, and we even have vaccinations that can prevent the development of a viral infection. And that's the only cancer that can be vaccinated. Urinary cancer is one of the most common types of malignant tumours in women. About 2,000 women get sick in the Czech Republic every year. Fortunately, most of them develop disease at a stage where we can cure it. A well-disputed symptom is irregular bleeding. The third common gynaecological tumor is ovarian cancer. A new disease occurs in about one thousand Czech women per year. The main reason for the poorer prognosis is the ability to spread in the abdomen and from a small tumor on the ovary, which does not yet make the woman difficult. So what does the professor say? Let your children be vaccinated. Inoculation against human papillomavirus is an exceptional achievement of modern medicine. If girls are vaccinated before the beginning of sexual life, the risk of cervical cancer will be reduced by more than 90 percent. Even boys who do not pass viral infection on to their sexual partners should be vaccinated. In addition, they will reduce the risk of anus or penis cancer. Some vaccines also reduce the risk of developing infectious warts that are common at a young age. The vaccine against papillomavirus is safe and in the Czech Republic vaccination is free for girls and boys at age 13. And you're doing it for the future pregnancy, of course. Inoculation of girls and young women against HPV is important to give birth to a healthy, pregnant child. If the virus in the cervix has already caused risky changes or even a tumor, part of the tissue must be removed. So the professor says go to preventive gynecological examinations and take advantage of HPV testing. Let yourself be vaccinated at an adult age. It should be stressed that vaccination provides a much more effective and better way of protecting than preventive examinations. While the aim of the examination is to detect serious changes in the cervix that require removal of part of the cervix or whole uterus, vaccination prevents the onset of primary infection, including all potential surgical procedures. So I think it's very important. Here's an example of a lady who contracted cervical cancer in 2014. Like a lot of other women, she took regular gynaecological examinations, and her doctor did a cytological examination. However, the diagnosis was not revealed until the advanced stage, almost after a year of difficulty, literally at the last minute. After diagnosis, things took a quick turn, deciding on the recommended treatment method, then demanding surgery and then several months of recovery. If you haven't had a long gynaecological examination or your doctor has never offered you a HPV DNA test next to a classic cytology, order a preventive examination today. Do not be afraid to change your doctor when you feel that something is not right. We know our own body best. This can prevent not only major trauma from surgery or demanding treatment, but you can save your life. Thanks to early diagnosis you have a much better chance with the disease to successfully fight and heal or best prevent it. A ribbon that helps. Each of the more common types of cancer has its own color. Some colorations have already penetrated the awareness of the general public - for example, we have accepted that pink is associated with breast tumors. We still have to get used to other connections like this. The ribbon in a particular color offers a simple way to support the sick and their family and spread awareness of prevention and treatment. It is a symbolic expression of the willingness to help in its own efforts. Another is Professor Zachoval, who says: Prostate, testicular or bladder tumors are common. But there's no need to be afraid of them, we just need to catch them in time. Mr. Zachoval is the chairman of the Czech Urological Society and is the head of the Urological Clinic of the Faculty Thomayer Hospital in Prague. He specializes in oncourology and thus focuses on the treatment of urinary tract malignancies. He shall be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Foundation Fund. Men against cancer who try all the ways to promote education, prevention and early diagnosis and so on. When do you definitely need to find a urologist? Prostate cancer is the most common male cancer in the Czech Republic. We capture more than 7,000 new cases every year. Prostate tumors are strange in the fact that in most cases men live with them for a long time completely without symptoms and the disease starts to threaten them after many years. Yet almost 1,500 men die of prostate cancer each year. The only way to reduce this risk is by early tumour capture and early effective treatment. Therefore, if you are between 50 and 70 years old and if you are interested in actively caring for your health, have blood collected to detect the levels of a prostatic specific PSA antigen in your blood and discuss with your doctor what your values mean. Don't worry about the prostate exam with the rectum, there's no reason to be shy, it's routine for a doctor. Thanks to these two methods, we can detect cancer at a time when it is curable. I remember the case of a friend of mine who unfortunately underestimated it, and even though I bought an ultrasound for $2.5 million in that hospital back then, it still didn't help and died for nothing. In some cases prostate cancer may be hereditary, the disease occurs earlier and is more aggressive. If there are two of your direct relatives who have prostate cancer - your father, your father's grandfather, any of the brothers - you should come a few years earlier, preferably in your 40s. Don't be afraid to touch yourself. Testicular tumors occur mainly in young men, typically between the 20th and 40th years of life. This is an aggressive tumor, but fortunately it is almost always curable if we proceed correctly and start treating the patient on time. In addition, early tumors can be much more effective, with fewer side effects. The advantage is that the tumor is detectable by a touch and the testicles can be palpated by any man. Examine your testicles regularly, for example once every three months. If you feel a harder bearing in the testicle, seek a urologist immediately, the treatment should not be delayed. [[10.20 hours]] Blood in the urine isn't normal. Bladder tumours are common cancers. Their occurrence is closely related to smoking cigarettes. Smokers have up to four times the risk of getting sick with this tumor than non-smokers and their disease is less favourable. The right thing to do is not to smoke. Bladder cancer is most commonly detected by blood in urine. If you notice blood staining of your urine, do not hesitate to visit a urologist, even if it is not accompanied by other symptoms. At the time of the captured bladder tumor can often only be treated in an endoscopic way without the need to remove the bladder. In addition, the visible presence of blood in urine may be a sign of other serious urological diseases, such as kidney cancer. So the sum of what you can do for yourself, colleagues, men: do not smoke if you want to reduce the risk of getting cancer. If you notice blood staining in your urine, do not hesitate to see a urologist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u7	Mr President, I apologize again. Please speak to the matter of medical matters, rereading some leaflets. Please try to get back to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u8	Madam President, this is not some kind of flyer. That's a very special flyer, yes, the right one I came up with. [[Glee in the hall.]] Yes, you can laugh, imagine - thank you for the recognition - which insurance companies should have given to every insured person. [[applause from the right]] Everyone. You're kidding me. Yeah, I guess you don't care. And the flyer didn't leave because it was supposed to be a campaign. That is, of course, nonsense. We did it to protect the lives of our citizens. It's not some flyer. It's not a flyer, it's a brochure, it's unique. [[He's pointing.]] Here at the end, look, Madam President, every fourth of us are dying of cancer. Change it. [[Objection from the right side of the hall that it's not to the point.]] It's to the point, it's to the health department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u9	I would like my colleagues not to yell at the speaker. Anyway, I understand, Mr President, that if you invented this leaflet, it's very important. [[Cheer from the right.]] But let's try to really get back to the subject and the point that we're discussing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u10	Yes, but we are discussing health care, and this discusses money for health care. [[A rebuttal from the right that Mr Babiš is not referring to the matter.]] The Minister of Health said that there is therefore no problem that the balances on insurance accounts are high. Yes, I was talking about understanding his position. As far as I know, the outlook for the financing of insurance companies in terms of the contribution to state policy holders is falling from the perspective of this government and new policyholders will be added. I don't know if Mr. Rakušan has calculated how many Ukrajinec will be the new state insurance companies to whom we have to pay. One state insured person costs about CZK 25,000 a year, if I count correctly. So, of course, what's important is lung cancer. Perhaps you do not know, Madam President, that even those who have never smoked may become ill with lung cancer. So a lung tumor takes a few months and a diagnosis that could mean surgery, treatment, and recovery becomes an incurable disease. This is what Mrs Martina Vašáková says, one of the largest lung capacities in Europe. But your minister fired her, too. [[Reaction from the O.R.: She left alone.]] She left alone, so I guess she had a reason. He's the minister of the morning, when he comes to work, he plays the cards, he doesn't have time for them, so that's hard. So lung cancer represents one of the most benign cancers with the shortest survival, despite ever improving treatment options. The Czech Republic is one of the countries with the highest incidence of this disease. More than 6,000 new cases are diagnosed every year. Worse still, 3,500 men and 1,500 women die from this tumor every year. In women, the incidence of new cases and the number of deaths continue to increase. The main risk factor for lung cancer is tobacco smoking, but even those who have never smoked may get sick. That, of course, is a warning. Why are patients late? More than 70 percent of patients are diagnosed at a stage where the tumor is so advanced that it can no longer be removed, and the hope of recovery is very small. The pulmonary tumors have long grown unmarked, so they will draw attention to themselves when, for example, they clog a larger bronchitis and the sick become suffocated, they begin to lose, lose weight and do no good. A relatively early symptom is a cough, but most patients ignore it, thinking it is a normal so-called smoking cough. It's usually alarming for a patient to cough up blood that just makes him go to a doctor. Screening could save hundreds of lives. That's what I'm talking about. Early detection of lung cancer is essential for a good prognosis at a stage where surgery is possible. A project for early detection of lung cancer is therefore prepared in the Czech Republic by means of a computerized tomography with a low dose of radiation. An investigation like this could save up to 300 people a year in our country. The programme should cover smokers aged 55 to 74 years with a load of at least 20 packages of years. One package of a year means that one year a person smoked one pack of cigarettes a day, or two boxes of six months, or half a box of two years. The project must also include the motivation of the individuals involved to quit smoking. So, smokers, what can you do for yourself? Do not smoke or expose yourself to passive smoking, i.e. when someone else smokes. If you're smoking, try to stop. I'm cured, too. I quit smoking from one box of Marlboro to zero on December 16, 1996. I never lit another cigarette, and I'm glad. If you are a smoker or an ex-smoker, be interested in the possibility of screening using a low-dose CT. Do not underestimate the possible symptoms of lung cancer. Cough, if it lasts longer, should be examined. Also, the change in the nature of chronic smoking cough can be a sign of cancer, as well as the presence of blood threads in the coughing mucus. And then there's Professor Zavoral, he's a specialist in the treatment of esophageal and stomach tumors. What's he saying? Pay attention to the warning signs and do not be afraid of gastroscopy. Those 15 minutes of examination may be unpleasant, but they can change your life. Mr. Zavoral is the director of the Central Military Hospital. I worked very actively with him. We made a unique O2 Universum vaccination center, where it was vaccinated up to five, ten minutes, such a center was nowhere in the world, and thanks to the army, thanks to this hospital. And Mr. Zavoral is the one who, I think, saved the President when he was hospitalized, and today the President is enjoying great health. The President is, of course, a miracle, because he smoked up to 80 a day and is supposed to have lungs like a young man, so I greet him and I'm glad he did. So what does Professor Zavoral say? Early diagnostics are essential. Take care of prevention and avoid risk factors. Tumors of the upper digestive tube are mainly found in the esophagus and stomach. Currently, esophageal cancer is not as common in the Czech Republic, it is diagnosed in approximately 700 patients per year, as gastric cancer, there are 1,400 patients per year. However, its incidence has increased significantly over the past few years and stomach tumors are retreating. Smoking is a common risk factor for both diseases. In case of esophageal tumours, excessive alcohol consumption is also at risk. Furthermore, inflammation of the esophagus associated with the return of food and acidic gastric juices to the lower part of the esophagus, called Barrettův oesophagitis, may result in a change in the mucous membranes of the esophagus, called Barrett's esophagus, from which a malignant tumor often develops. The stomach tumor is closely related to food. The higher risk is associated with the consumption of smoked foods, high intake of salt and lack of fruit and vegetables. The effect of Helicobacter pylori infection, which can cause inflammation in the stomach, or even ulcers that can lead to tumour formation, is currently widely investigated. Genetic factors also have significant influence. The repeated presence of cancer in the family increases the risk of cancer twice to three times. [[10.30 hours]] The warning signs of a malignant esophagus tumor are mainly a disorder of swallowing, biting, pain, heartburn, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite and weight loss. Stomach cancer is also accompanied by a loss of appetite and weight loss, and a severe tiredness in anemia and stomach pains with food relief. Both tumors may be accompanied by bleeding, which is manifested by vomiting in blood or a black cuddly stool. Endoscopy diagnoses and cures. In any of these symptoms, endoscopic examination - gastroscopy - should be performed. This consists in the introduction of a tube with optics, which will be examined through the entire upper part of the digestive tube - the oral cavity, the esophagus, the stomach and the twelfth. At the same time, samples may be taken from suspicious areas for histological examination, which helps determine the exact diagnosis. It's important to be on time for this examination until the tumor is too advanced. Early tumors can not only be diagnosed but also treated and cured by gastroscopy. Surgery with the removal of part of the esophagus or stomach or other oncological treatment is required for advanced tumours. Chemotherapy and radiation in the case of esophagus. So the warning signs of the esophagus tumor: swallowing difficulties, biting or pain when swallowing, heartburn, burning and pressure behind the sternum, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, weight loss, general weakness, increased fatigue, difficulty breathing, hoarseness. Warning signs of stomach cancer: loss of appetite, especially taste for meat, significantly increased tiredness, overall weakness, weight loss, stomach pain with food relief. Swallowing disorders if the tumor is in the upper part of the stomach, so-called cardiopathy. So what you can do for yourself: do not smoke, and if you smoke, try to stop, drink alcoholic beverages or at least significantly limit them, get vaccinated against HPV, take care of sufficient mineral intake, eat a well-balanced diet and do not underestimate the possible symptoms. And here in the next part is that intestinal tumors shouldn't stand a chance. Intestinal tumors can be very well prevented by prevention. That's what docent says. MUDr. Štěpán Suchánek, a specialist in diagnostics and treatment of intestinal cancer. Colonoscopy can save your life. You have free examinations from the age of 50, so use it, it's important. Štěpán Suchánek is a gastroenterologist, so he focuses on diagnostics and treatment of gastrointestinal diseases, works as head doctor of gastrointestinal endoscopy department in Prague Central Military Hospital. He devotes much of his energy to developing screening programs for early detection of colon and rectum tumors. Thanks to this program, the number of people dying from this type has fallen significantly. They try to expand the idea of prevention in both professional and lay public. Colonoscopy is not to be feared. I've been on it about four or five times. Colon and rectum cancer. Colorectal cancer is diagnosed annually in 7,500 people in the Czech Republic. 3,500 patients die from it. This malignant tumor can simply be prevented. This is because this type of cancer has been developing for a very long time, up to ten years, and it has a few benign forwards - growths in the intestine called polyps. The basis of prevention is a colonoscopy, i.e. the introduction of a miniature camera placed on a flexible hose, which will be examined by the entire intestine and any polyps will be removed immediately. In specialized workplaces, tumors can even be removed during colonoscopy if captured in time. Everyone has been entitled to an examination since they were 50 years old. Colonoscopy is covered by health insurance companies in the framework of prevention for everyone from 50 years of age, in case of a higher risk - warning symptoms or occurrence of cancer in the family or prior surgery on the intestine - at any age. If the examination is negative, it will be repeated after 10 years. Fears are mostly useless. Preventive, so-called screening, colonoscopy is carried out in specialised centres that cover the whole Republic. The waiting times are different in each center, usually several weeks. If you are worried about the examination, you can agree with your doctor on an analgosedation, that is, a painkiller, and patients are mostly pleasantly surprised that the examination was less demanding than expected. The variations in colonoscopy are tests for hidden - occult - stool bleeds that are non-invasive and simple. For you, it means taking a piece of stool into a special bottle. They are performed from the age of 50 with a physician or gynecologist and are repeated after a year after two years if the result is negative. The positive test is followed by a colonoscopy to clarify the source of the bleeding. And it's working. The fact that prevention works shows our experience from the last 20 years, when an organized preventive programme is being conducted in the Czech Republic. During that time the incidence of colon cancer decreased by 20 percent and the number of deaths from the disease decreased by 40 percent. In 150,000 investigations, polyps were removed, and the tumor didn't even occur. In 10,000 patients, cancer was found, which could be treated in half of the cases by surgery. So it is essential to be on time. And who's at high risk of colon cancer? Up to 15 percent of patients develop a tumor based on congenital genetic predisposition. Mostly those whose relatives have developed this tumor at a young age should be on guard. People from such families should have regular colonoscopy examinations at an earlier age and at shorter intervals. Don't underestimate blood in your stool. In particular, blood in stool or toilet paper is a warning sign. Of course, that doesn't mean it's a tumor. Blood often comes from hemorrhoids, for example, but it is necessary to perform a full examination of the colon and colonoscopy rectum to rule out a more severe source of bleeding. Hidden stool bleeding tests are not appropriate for people with a higher risk of colorectal cancer, colonoscopy is clearly recommended. When is the risk of colon cancer high? In the presence of one of the three main warning symptoms; patients after treatment of polyps or colorectal cancer; in relatives - children, siblings - patients in whom colorectal cancer was less than 60 years of age; in patients with congenital syndromes, particularly familial adenomatous polyposis and Lynchův syndrome; In patients with long-term idiopathic intestinal inflammation. So if you're 50 years old, order a colonoscopy. You don't have to worry, you can handle it. And if, for any reason, you don't want to take a test for hidden stool bleeding, and if you notice signs of stool bleeding, don't expect it to adjust, and see a gastroenterologist. And now for the worst cancer. Carcinoma of the pancreas is a serious disease. And for the main discovery that will allow it to be mastered, we are still waiting. This says Professor Urban, chief of the 2nd Internal Clinic of Gastroenterological and Geriatric Faculty Hospital in Olomouc. The workplace deals with complex diagnostics and endoscopic treatment of digestive tract tumors. We're trying to diagnose tumors at a curable stage. Often it's only a few millimeters big. He currently holds the post of President of the Czech Gastroenterological Society and he and his team implement the concept of a network of centers of dimensional endoscopy. When time runs especially fast. The incidence of pancreatic or pancreatic cancer in developed countries is increasing and the number of people who will die from this tumor is rising. At present, the fourth most common cause of death is cancer. In our country, up to 2,000 people get sick each year. Almost all sick are over 45 years old, somewhat more often male. Only those in whom the disease was diagnosed at an early stage are cured. However, pancreatic tumors have long grown unnoticed, and symptoms are an indication of an advanced disease. Who to focus on. Screening, this is an examination of people in the general population without symptoms, not carried out anywhere in the world. However, it turns out that regular investigations of people at high risk by modern imaging methods lead to the capture of early, highly susceptible stages of the disease. These examinations in the Czech Republic provide well-equipped gastroenterological workplaces, which are organized into a network covering the whole Czech Republic. In these centres, people with some genetic conditions or those who have experienced pancreatic cancer in several relatives should be investigated. [[10.40 hours]] What could possibly indicate a pancreatic tumor? Pay attention to possible symptoms of pancreatic cancer. This is particularly abdominal pain around the belly, which sometimes spreads to the back, unwanted weight loss, yellowing of skin and eye whites or long-term, otherwise unexplained increase in body temperature. While these symptoms are not usually caused by malignant tumors, they are common manifestations of other diseases, but are not to be underestimated. There's nothing to wait for, time runs fast for pancreatic cancer. It also turns out that before the tumor develops otherwise, a number of patients develop a special form of diabetes. Sometimes diabetes has long symptoms of pancreatic cancer preceded by many months. This could at least lead to early diagnosis in some patients. So what can you do for yourself? Smoking, that's for sure. Experts estimate that a quarter of all pancreatic tumors are caused by smoking. The risk for those smoking and quitting gradually decreases. Maintain normal weight. Already light obesity, which means a BMI higher than 30, increases the risk by 20 percent. Eat a varied diet with plenty of fruit, vegetables and cereals, limit the consumption of red meat and sausage products. Do not drink alcohol at all or limit its consumption to one drink - 14 grams of pure alcohol - in women and two drinks in men. If chemicals occur in your working environment, check that it does not cause cancer and that you are sufficiently protected. Do not underestimate the symptoms that may alert the pancreatic tumor. Well, here's the liver. Livers are a vital organ whose cancers are different from other tumors. The way to prevention is a little different here. So says Professor Urbánek, a specialist in the treatment of liver disease. Mr. Petr Urbánek is a leading hepatologist, so he is an expert in liver disease. In recent years he has been involved in the creation of standard procedures for diagnosis and treatment of chronic viral hepatitis and liver cancer. He is currently Vice-President of the Committee of the Czech hepatological Society and has been its chairman for several years. He acts as head of the internal clinic of the Central Military Hospital in Prague. Liver tumor is strange and untypical. Livers are a vital organ that is central to metabolism. Malignant liver tumors differ from other oncological diseases in many ways. The first difference is that the risk of developing cancer - cancer - liver is relatively small in a person without chronic liver disease. Approximately 90 percent of liver cancers occur in patients with chronic liver disease. Unfortunately, self-examination is not possible here. As with other tumors, on the contrary, if symptoms are already developing, they are advanced diseases where the possibilities of successful treatment are very limited. Careful monitoring of patients with liver disease is essential for prevention. When it makes sense to have a regular ultrasound. Most patients with liver disease regularly visit their specialist's office. Depending on the type of liver disease, its advancedness and treatment, he decides on the methods of examination that can reveal the liver tumor in its early stages. The patient is most frequently monitored by ultrasound examination at intervals of every six months. This procedure should be followed consistently in people with cirrhosis of the liver, such as those with "hard liver," as is sometimes known in layman's terms. Inoculation against HBV and treatment of diabetes is the right way. However, a significant proportion of patients do not know about their chronic liver disease and therefore do not know that they are at increased risk of developing a tumor. Liver disease does not hurt, for a long time they have no symptoms and very often only, in quotation marks, accompany other diseases. In the general population there is much more frequent excessive intake of alcohol, type 2 diabetes, obesity, fat metabolism disorders. A number of people with these diseases have advanced liver disease and have a high degree of liver binding. If the patient or his treating physician does not know about this, prevention cannot be properly set. The main way to reduce the incidence of liver cancer is to try to reduce the incidence of other liver diseases. This clearly fits the mandatory vaccination against hepatitis B virus. In Western countries, efforts must be made to reduce alcohol intake and excessive energy intake. The connection between alcohol, obesity, and liver disease, "hardening," the liver is usually known to people, but not everyone follows it. Unfortunately, we still need to repeat that even beer is alcohol and few people are getting fat from the air. Another measure to prevent liver cancer is compliance with regimens in other diseases that may cause liver damage. The correct treatment of type 2 diabetes is particularly important, which also implies compliance with all patient's dietary regimens, especially care for proper nutrition and sufficient exercise. So Professor Urbánek says, "What can you do for yourself?" Let yourself be vaccinated against yolk, especially type B; limit alcohol intake; if you are diabetic, it is important to keep your diabetes under control; Try to maintain healthy weight and be physically active. And here we have head and neck tumors. He's definitely one of the more frequent ones. It is surprising how little attention is paid to their first possible symptoms, says Professor Astl, a specialist in the treatment of head and neck cancer. Mr. Astl is an expert in otorhinolaryngology, ORL. He focuses, among other things, on thyroid surgery, as a leader he leads an ORL clinic in the Central Military Hospital in Prague. He is the author of several publications focused on open communication between doctors and patients, such as Disease as a Call or Talks R. He is a member of the Committee of the Czech Otorhinolaryngological - Society. [[Applause, notes.]] Thank you, I'm trying. I hope this is interesting for you. I think it's important, and maybe the VZP will send it to you, the prospectus, finally, now they can afford it now that you've banned it before the election. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Yeah, the board of directors forbade it, which you arranged, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u11	I will ask you, Mr President, to continue your speech and let all speeches be on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u12	Yeah, okay, okay. As the gentleman speaks, I answered him with decency. HPV vaccination is prevention against head and neck cancer. The development of malignant head and neck tumors has a large share of smoking as well as alcohol. Drinking alcoholic beverages is associated with the intake of ethanol, which acts as a cellular poison. There is direct dependence between the tumour and the amount of alcohol consumed - beer, wine and spirits. This relationship is particularly pronounced in head and neck cancer. In particular, the combination of smoking and alcohol represents an extraordinary risky behaviour. The risk of cancer in this area further increases the weakening of immunity, the lack of vitamins in the diet, the lack of oral hygiene and the overall poor condition of the organism caused by, for example, drug addiction. Untreated chronic inflammation may be applied. Human papillomavirus infection, HPV, is a significant risk factor for the development of head and neck cancer, especially the oral part of the larynx. It is present in more than half of patients with tumors in this area. Therefore vaccination against HPV can be recommended not only as a prevention of gynaecological tumours, but also for the prevention of head and neck tumours. Do not underestimate the first symptoms of a tumor in the area of the head and neck. In order to cure cancer, it is crucial not to underestimate the possible symptoms of the disease and to come to the doctor on time. In the beginning, head and neck tumors are either not at all or are similar to those seen in some minor diseases such as common diseases of the upper respiratory tract. This fact often leads to underestimating the real problem. In particular, account should be taken of the duration of the difficulties. [[10.50 hours]] Early diagnosis has a significant effect on the success of treatment. If you have one of the following symptoms for more than two to three weeks, seek medical advice at the ORL department - ear, nasal, cervical - and this is a lump on your neck, hoarseness, painful tongue, non-healing ulcers in your mouth, red or white spots in your mouth, sore throat or difficulty swallowing, unilateral nasal obstruction or bloody discharge from your nose, coughing and coughing blood. Some nonspecific general symptoms such as fever may indicate cancer. Sometimes the first and long-term only symptom of an otherwise undiscovered malignant disease is weight loss. This is particularly significant in head and neck cancers. So what does Professor Astl say, what can you do for yourself? Classic. Don't smoke, and if you smoke, try to stop. Well, that's easy for you to say. Do not drink alcoholic beverages or at least significantly limit their consumption, also interesting. Let yourself be vaccinated against HPV, take care of sufficient mineral intake, especially iodine, and vitamins. Eat a varied and balanced diet. Do not underestimate the possible symptoms of the disease. Take preventive examinations to the dentist, he may reveal some symptoms of the tumor in the oral cavity. There you go. So many head and neck tumors. Well, now we have Professor Špička, a specialist in the treatment of hematooncological diseases. Progress in the treatment of haematological tumours is among the greatest achievements of medicine in this century. But even here, the patient needs to be on time. Ivan Špička is a leading specialist in blood and hematology, works at the I. Internal Clinic - the Prague General Faculty Hospital Hematology Clinic. He specializes in the treatment of multiple myeloma, one of the founding members of the Czech Myeloma Group, where he has worked since the founding of its Bureau. Thanks to this group, in the Czech Republic the care of the patients with this disease is at world level. Professor Špička is the main author of the book Multiple Myeloma and other monoclonal gemapatie. It helps the patient's organization bringing together the patients with multiple myeloma and their families. Feel the signals your body sends. Haematologic tumors affect the blood cells and cells of the lymph lymphatic organs. These include mainly leukemia, lymphoma and multiple myeloma. It's a rare disease, but they're not that unusual in their summary. In the Czech Republic they affect around 4,600 people a year. There are over 30,000 fellow citizens living with us who have been treated or treated with such a disease, and this number is still increasing. There is little to prevent these diseases if we ignore general rules not to expose ourselves to radiation or chemical pollution. There is also, perhaps with absolute exceptions, no inheritance. The good news is that many of these tumors have made tremendous progress in treatment in recent years. Their diagnostics are complicated, but this is unspecific, such as fatigue, weight loss, excessive sweating, especially nighttime, increased temperatures. Of course, these problems can, and mostly also have, a different cause. However, if they persist for a longer period of time, it is necessary to focus on the possibility of severe haematological disease. Multiple myeloma - watch out for back pains. She has a special position in haematological tumors with multiple myeloma. About 500 Čech get sick with this disease every year. Myelom is now considered a treatable chronic disease. A number of patients have lived with this diagnosis for ten or more years. In aggressive initial treatment, some patients have even been referred to as cures. The quality of patients' lives depends very much on the stage at which the disease was properly recognized. This disease, among other things, damages the spine and this process can lead to vertebral fractures. Therefore, the patient is often treated for a long time and without much effect on the relief of back pain. Another sign may be worsening of kidney activity and also anemia, which may be alerted to fatigue. In practice, these symptoms do not pay enough attention. Thus, 20 percent of myeloma patients find severe irreversible bone or kidney damage when they are diagnosed. Leukemia is called a group of diseases with very different course and with very different prognosis. Although this word sounds threatening, some types of leukemia are very well treatable. Although the patient can't get rid of the disease, his illness may be under control for decades. The first sign of the disease may be nosebleed or skinbleed. It manifests itself as small dark spots on the skin. The patient may feel pain on the left side of the abdomen due to enlarged spleen, having enlarged lymph nodes and reduced appetite. Lymphoma tumors are collectively referred to as lymphomas. Around 1,900 new cases are diagnosed in the Czech Republic every year. Their symptoms include unwanted weight loss, fatigue, increased temperature, night sweats, lymph node enlargement - mostly not painful - enlargement of the spleen and resulting sensations of pressure in the abdomen. Hodgkinův lymphoma has a special position among lymphomas, and, on the one hand, by affecting young people often, it is most often diagnosed between the 1920s and the 1930s, and also by having a very good prognosis. People who heal from haematological tumors continue to increase. Everyone should be kept under constant surveillance. They are at higher risk of developing another tumor, they are at risk of developing osteoporosis, cardiovascular - heart and vascular - diseases, as well as other complications. So what can you do for yourself? If there is severe fatigue, weight loss, night sweats, you need to re-dress, fevers that are not explained by infectious disease, or sudden bleeding symptoms such as gums, from the nose, you need to think about blood tumors. Pay attention to enlarged nodes. A bulka that has reappeared anywhere on the body without any apparent connection to the previous infection should be examined by a doctor. If your back pain persists and does not respond to routine treatment, the possibility of multiple myeloma should be excluded. The risk of some lymphomas is increased in patients with chronic hepatitis, HCV. If you belong to a risk group, for example, you have experience in injecting drugs, even one-off, have HCV antibodies tested. Well, here's Professor Kleibl, and it's called When there's a tumor in the family. And I think it's very important because, of course, cancer kills and the whole family, the whole neighborhood, suffers from it. Those are terrible stories, I know x's. Even around us here in the House, the cancer sometimes occurs, and luckily, it ends well. The search for genetic causes should be a standard for each oncological patient. Zdeněk Kleibl is an oncologist and specialist in the diagnosis of hereditary cancers. He works at the Institute of Biochemistry and Experimental Oncology of the Faculty of Medicine of Charles University. In his research, he focuses on individual genes that may be related to the emergence of cancer. Involved in the development of expert recommendations on how family care with genetic disposition should look like for the development of one of the malignant tumors. In some families, malignant tumors occur remarkably frequently, even in young patients. Both of these characteristics may indicate that they are some of the so-called hereditary cancer syndromes that occur in persons who carry genetic defects in their genetic information for generations, mutation, in one of the many tumor predisposition genes. Awareness of the hereditary nature of tumors has had medicine for more than 150 years, but only the progress of recent decades has made it possible to map genetic disorders responsible for the increased risk of developing them. [[11.00 hours]] Hereditary is less than a tenth of all tumors. In the Czech Republic there will be a hereditary tumor in approximately 3,000 patients each year, but the frequency of hereditary forms varies significantly in individual oncological diagnoses. The hereditary origin of ovarian cancer is common, up to 30% of all women with this disease. Less often, around 10 percent of the patients have hereditary forms of breast cancer, pancreas, or aggressive prostate cancer. Even more rare, in less than 5% of patients, hereditary forms of cancer, colon are detected, rarity in less than 1 percent of patients in melanoma or lung cancer. Diagnosed geneticist, cared for by a multidisciplinary team. The current diagnostic allows you to quickly find carriers of hereditary mutations. Testing is always voluntary and its suitability is decided by a clinical geneticist who is able to evaluate the risk of the tested person based on genetic consultation. When finding the cause of genetic change the geneticist evaluates its possible occurrence in relatives, in the media estimates the probability of developing cancers, which may vary in a wide range depending on the presence of a particular hereditary mutation. Determination of the genetic nature of the cancer can be used to select targeted treatment in carriers of certain mutations. Regular care for carriers of causal mutations should take place in specialised ambulances aimed at prevention or early diagnosis. You should be interested in the possibility of genetic examination due to the risk of hereditary oncological disease, when you suffer from oncological disease and in more of your relatives you experience oncological diagnosis or one of close relatives will become ill with oncological disease at an early age, suddenly or gradually more oncological diseases have occurred, oncological diseases have occurred in you at an untypically young age, such as breast cancer 40 years ago or colon cancer 50 years ago. Here's a lady's story. Her name is Jana. And Jana has lived for over ten years knowing that she has the so-called Lynchův syndrome, a disease that causes colon cancer, but also other organs. The disease is in the family, says Jana. At first, I didn't admit it, then I was afraid, and when I was diagnosed with intestinal cancer, I learned to fight and live with Lynch. I'm even glad I know my genetic burden. I've had intestinal surgery, I've been taking regular prevention. I found out what really matters in life. I'm trying to share information with others because you're not alone in this. That's Jana's story. And I think all families should pay a lot of attention to that. Then we have people with BRCA mutation. You can't just wait passively for a malignant tumor to appear. Most of them, however, do not know at all about their threat and are not caught up in any way. Says Professor Zikán, a specialist in the treatment of gynecological tumors with hereditary disposition. Mr. Zikán runs the Gynaecological and Postpartum Clinic of the I. Medical Faculty of Charles University and the Bulovka Faculty Hospital. He is a leading specialist in diagnosis and treatment of oncogynecological diseases. Among other things, he participated in a study evaluating the incidence of hereditary disposition to malignant tumours in the Czech Republic and the development of recommendations for care for carriers and carriers of mutations. In addition to the care of women with malignant tumors, she focuses on the issue of hereditary cancers and the care of individuals with hereditary disposition. Are you one of the 700? Today we already know dozens of genes whose damage means a higher probability of developing a tumor. One of the most common dispositions is mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2. This genetic disposition, inherited from one parent, means an increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer, the lifelong risk of cancer is up to 80 percent. It is not significant, but there is also an increase in the probability of other tumors - pancreas, colon, uterine mucous membranes, and prostate in men. BRCA mutations threaten thousands of people in the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, approximately one person in 750 bears this hereditary possession. So these are thousands of people. BRCA mutation can be detected by laboratory blood tests. A clinical geneticist will send you for examination on the recommendation of your oncologist, gynecologist or physician. All patients who are at least 10 per cent likely to develop a hereditary disorder should be tested. These are women who have been diagnosed with breast cancer at a young age, up to 45 years old, who have a type of tumor that we find more often genetically available - medular cancer, triple negative cancer. Women with ovarian cancer, men with cancer... women with ovarian cancer, men with breast cancer, so that's a typo right there. [[To the rapporteur:]] They can, okay? Oh, okay. Well, the doctor here warned me, so that's right. So men with breast cancer and sick families, where there are more tumors typical of this kind of hereditary disposition. BRCA generation doesn't skip. The aim of the genetic examination is to find families in which the disposition is transmitted and to find healthy and sick ones in these families who inherited it. The probability of transfer of disposition from parents to children is 50 percent. Everyone in the family doesn't have to inherit a mutation like that. The layout is transmitted directly, it can't jump generation. Whoever didn't inherit it can't carry it any more. Information that can save a life. Knowing that I have hereditary possession is good not only for healthy individuals, but also for those who have already been diagnosed with cancer. Targeted treatment is available for women with ovarian cancer, which works best in patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations and significantly improves prognosis. In healthy women and men, the detection of BRCA mutation enables the tumour to be prevented or at least detected as soon as possible. In specialized counseling, we offer women and men with hereditary disposition a system of careful monitoring. These periodic examinations aim to find a possible tumor in time. However, it is not always successful, especially ovarian cancer is growing rapidly and none of these methods are well captured in the early stages. That's why we offer women preventive surgeries. This is the removal of mammary glands with breast reconstruction and removal of ovaries, fallopian tubes possibly even uterus. Even if it is a serious intervention in the body, it is currently the only method that can effectively prevent the development of the tumor. The condition is a careful explanation of all the benefits and disadvantages of these operations and the informed decision of the patient. The examination of embryos may interrupt the chain. At present, we also have an opportunity to prevent the transfer of hereditary disposition to children through preimplantation genetic diagnostics. It means that a couple where a man or a woman is at risk of mutation will be offered artificial insemination. We're gonna take away the woman's eggs, the sperm partner, and the embryos, the embryos, we're gonna examine her. Into the womb, we'll only introduce to the woman the embryo that didn't inherit the mutation. So what does Professor Zikán say? What can we do for ourselves, you citizens? If you are ill, be interested in your tumor: what are risk factors or genetic dispositions; find out about the occurrence of the tumor in the nearest relatives, including the type of tumour and age in which it originated; in case of doubt contact the clinical genetics. And here's the story of Mrs. Radana: I discovered that I was the carrier of the BRCA2 mutation, when one loved one died after another. My grandmother died, and then my mom died, and then my dad died. And my sister got sick. Hell, Mrs. Radana remembers the six-month period last year. Because of the breast cancer revealed at her mother's and grandmother's, other women in the family also underwent an examination that revealed the gene mutation. In addition, the screening found a tumor in the breast. It broke me. When they told me my dad was dying, my legs broke. [[11.10 hours]] He and his partner had a ten-year-old son. Other children did not plan, therefore they soon underwent preventive removal of uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes, removal of breast glands and reconstruction of plastic surgery. Her greatest support was her siblings. All three of us are very close, and when fundamental things happen, we work it out together. This subject is therefore inherently linked to my sister Martina for me. Radana also found great support in her job. They went as far as possible to meet her in a difficult time when she was losing her loved ones and losing her own operation. After these experiences, we know how crucial it is to actively approach prevention. We all think it doesn't concern us, that it won't happen to us, and then we wonder. And here's Professor Králíková, the tobacco treatment specialist. What's he saying? It's not easy to quit smoking. We all know that. In an attempt only three to five out of a hundred will succeed, with professional help it can be up to ten times as much. Professor Králíková is a teacher at the Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology I. Faculty of Medicine of Charles University and General Faculty Hospital in Prague. It is available to its patients at the Centre for Tobacco Addiction III. internal clinics. 7,000 smokers passed through this workplace. Epidemiology, prevention and treatment of tobacco addiction is devoted almost 30 years at national and international level. Here's the headline: every smoked cigarette counts. [[no]] Each smoke is a mixture of thousands of substances, the cigarette contains between 4,000 and 7,000. The probability of developing cancer increases about a hundred of them. This applies to virtually all types of tumors. The risk grows with the number of smoked cigarettes. Every cigarette hurts. Nicotine itself doesn't cause cancer, it just makes a smoker smoke. Don't smoke. When you smoke, try to stop. If it doesn't work, seek help, says the professor. You tried to quit smoking repeatedly, but you failed? You're not incompetent. You're a typical smoker who's had a series of failed attempts to postpone cigarettes. Smoking brings you back to smoking in certain situations, to certain societies, to the point of physical dependence on nicotine and related withdrawal symptoms. It's kind of a ritual. I had a ritual, too, when there were no iphon, there were Telexes. So I had an empty tournament every morning, Marlboro, and I read the telex. And I graduated from college like this. So I understand it's hard, but the professor here says it's a problem. Abstinence symptoms can be significantly alleviated. Abstinence symptoms from nicotine deficiency occur within hours of the last cigarette and include mainly irritability, anxiety, sadness, a desire to smoke, difficulty concentrating, increased appetite, hunger, weight gain, insomnia, difficulty falling asleep, waking up at night, inability to rest, constipation, dizziness, cough, unusual dreams, nightmares, nausea, sore throat. The way I handled it, I had a picture of a smoker's lungs in my office on the wall. The lungs were cut open and there was cancer inside. This is how I rehearsed it, and then I stopped. And I never lit another cigarette. Twenty to zero. And you also need to have the audacity when you set a target. So the good news is two. Most withdrawal symptoms resolve within two to four weeks, increased appetite and desire to smoke may last longer. The second good news is that withdrawal symptoms can be completely suppressed or at least alleviated. What medications will help in rehab? They are both different forms of pure nicotine that are sold in a pharmacy without a prescription - patches, chewing gum, oral spray; pastilles - Nicorette, Niquitin. Without the recipe, Cytisin - Defumoxan - is a natural drug that does not contain nicotine, but replaces it, yet is not addictive. On its principle is then synthetic varenicline - Champix - it is already bound to the recipe. However, no cure is "against smoking. " These substances are anti-abstinence symptoms, and this is a major difference: smoking does not stop anyone, changing their learned behavior must be done alone. What about electronic cigarettes? Hundreds of different variants under this name are based on the principle of heated liquid with or without nicotine, for the formation of aerosol, thus do not produce smoke. This has to do with the minimum risk compared to smoking. They do not contain tobacco, unlike heated tobacco, e.g. IQOS. If you have failed to quit smoking with intense support and medication, electronic cigarettes can be an option to get rid of cigarettes, says Professor Králíková. Where to turn? On the website of the Society for the Treatment of Tobacco Addiction www.slzt.cz you will find contacts on more than 40 centers for tobacco addicts, consulting centers in about 200 pharmacies, outpatient doctors or adictological ambulances, telephone line for smoking cessation, mobile applications free of charge in Czech and other websites such as www.koureni-zabili.cz or www.bezcigaret.cz. Smoking after oncological diagnosis - does it matter? If you smoke at the time of cancer treatment, it is still extremely important whether you continue to do so or not. The "doesn't matter now" attitude is clearly wrong. It doesn't matter. If you stop, your prognosis, the effectiveness of oncological treatment, its side effects, survival time, mental state - smoking is surprisingly aggravating both depression and stress, not least the financial situation will improve. What can you do for yourself? Don't start smoking. If you smoke, stop. The point is anytime, even after the oncological diagnosis. If you can't stop, let me help you. Contact your doctor or your doctor for specialized treatment of tobacco addiction. Do whatever it takes for your children to grow up in a non-smoking environment, says Professor Eva Králíková. Well, then there's Professor Michal Miovský, who's an addiction specialist. The biggest tricky thing about the relationship between alcohol and oncological diseases is that people often don't even know about it, says the professor. The professor is a clinical psychologist and a psychotherapist. It focuses on the treatment of addiction - adictology. He is the head of the Adictology Clinic of the Faculty of Medicine of Charles University. This represents a unique workplace even in an international context. It offers university education in adictology at Bachelor's, Master's and Doctor's degree. Professor Miovský works at the faculty as a vice-dean for non-medical study programs. He is a member of the Scientific Council of Charles University in Prague and a member of the Scientific Council of the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic. Back then. I don't know, maybe he's still there. The important thing is to know and not underestimate. The vast majority of people have alcohol only associated with addiction. The addiction itself concerns a relatively small number of people, but alcohol can be a significant threat to health and life in many other areas - and this includes increasing the risk of cancer. Alcohol is a relatively significant carcinogen, in other words, involved in the development of malignant growth. This effect is present regardless of whether someone is addicted or not. It depends on the total amount of alcohol we consume, and that can affect each of us. How do we measure and evaluate alcohol consumption? To evaluate alcohol consumption is simply converted into grams, i.e. by determining how many grams of pure alcohol we get into the body by ingesting. We use the so-called standard drink device, which is about 16 to 18 grams of pure alcohol. This is the quantity contained in one large shot of distillate, i.e. five centiliters, or two deciliters of wine. [[11.20 hours]] What is the risk of alcohol consumption in terms of cancer? Alcohol is associated with a significant increase in the risk of at least 7 different cancer types. It is estimated that this cause is worth almost 6 percent of all deaths from malignant tumours worldwide. That's a huge, long underrated share. Alcohol, for example, has a major influence on mouth cancer, gullet, and esophagus. If someone drinks about 50 grams of pure alcohol a day, that's about three beers, they increase the probability of these tumors five to seven times, says the professor. There is also a strong link between alcohol consumption and pancreatic cancer. Even relatively low daily alcohol consumption at the level of one to three standard drinks per day increases the risk of breast cancer. In men, the connection between alcohol use and prostate cancer is confirmed. It is particularly risky when it comes to drinking hand in hand with smoking. When, then, does the risk of cancer begin to grow? In this respect, we can distinguish between two levels of long-term consumption. The first limit is around one or two standard drinks per day, i.e. 18 to 36 grams of pure alcohol per day, when there is already a slight increase in risk for some types of tumors. However, the second line is critical - exceeding daily consumption at the level of about five standard drinks, which means 80 to 100 grams of pure alcohol a day, says Professor Miovský. From this level, the risk increase is rapid and, with each further increase in consumption, it flies steeply up. How to reduce the risk of cancer associated with alcohol use? Of course, it is best not to drink alcohol at all from the point of view of cancer prevention. But, of course, we all understand that it's hard. But this is difficult for many to attain and unrealistic. The key is to check the total amount of alcohol consumed. If possible, it should not be higher than one to two standard drinks per day, that is to say 18 to 36 grams. During the week, we should have one or two days without alcohol, says the professor. However, we should certainly not exceed daily consumption at the level of approximately four or five standard drinks, in other words not getting over the circus from 80 to 100 grams of pure alcohol. It is at the same time better to drink low-percent drinks - beers with a lower alcohol or wine, or diluted alcohol than high-percent alcohol. Avoid drinking alcoholic beverages with a concentration above 40 percent. Professor Miovský says what you can do for yourself is: If it is unrealistic for you to abstinate, try to keep your alcohol consumption low. One to two days a week should be completely free of alcohol. Drinking more alcohol and smoking is dangerous, it helps to control at least one of them. Avoid heavy alcohol. And then there's Professor Matoulek, who's a specialist in the treatment of obesity and physical medicine. Very important. Movement is a real cure. We keep it with us, but we keep using it less and less. Martin Matoulek is an obesityologist, endocrinologist and body doctor. In addition, he is also an active athlete, mainly dedicated to basketball, even as a coach. They try to use all the ways to mitigate the effects of obesity in the general public. It creates mobile applications and educational materials, organizes stay courses for people with obesity. Among other things, the author of the book is the Successful Weight Loss Manual. There you go. Movement, obesity and tumors. Obesity and some types of malignant tumours are closely related. Up to 4 percent of all cases of cancer are caused by obesity. Mostly breast, uterus, and colon cancers. An important part of cancer prevention is therefore an effort to achieve healthy weight. This is, of course, very difficult in practice and few are successful in this. However, it may not be an extreme change. It turns out that a weight reduction of approximately 10 percent already leads to a reduction in the risk of obesity-related tumours by about half. Every kilogram counts. It is not good to try to achieve the goal only by reducing the diet. The effect of movement activity is longer-term and more sustainable, although in itself it leads to a lower weight loss than a significant diet adjustment. Thanks to the current increase in physical fitness, the overall forecast is improving much more significantly than with a simple weight decrease. By improving the muscle/fat ratio, which changes after several weeks of regular movement, there is not only a reduction in the risk of tumour formation, but also a decrease in the risk of recurrence of tumors - relapses - in those who have already been diagnosed with cancer. At the same time, quality of life improves. It even appears that the effect of motion activity is significant without any change in weight; When a person is so-called fit and fat, fit and fat, he has a much better prognosis than unfat and unfit, slim but incompetent. How to move? Recommendations on how to move are given to a large extent of diseases that accompany overweight and obesity, that is, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease. However, some basic principles are almost universal. They can usually be summed up in the abbreviation FIT - frequency, intensity, duration of motion activity. The correct type of movement must be selected at the beginning, especially with regard to the motion apparatus. Poorly selected exercise, or even inappropriate choice of footwear, can lead to worsening of difficulties or pain, which then leads to restrictions on movement for several weeks and months. A simple walk that meets in many ways everything we need can also be considered an appropriate and universal activity. It is a simple motion formula that everyone knows, can be well adjusted by the pace, and if it is supplemented by, for example, sticks like the so-called Nordic walking, it will become highly effective even for weight reduction. During the older age, so-called resistance training - mild strengthening - is also important, which is not difficult to coordinate and saves support joints, and yet leads to an increase in fitness. Frequency. The usual recommendation of movement activity every day is mostly related to lack of time and compromise between optimal and minimal target condition. Especially in the older age, a shorter but daily burden is needed than the longer activity every day. In order to increase physical fitness, training should be continued within 48 hours at the latest. Consequently, the minimum frequency is three to four times a week. The movement included twice a week is meaningless, but still larger than nothing. Intensity. It can be generalized that it is necessary to combine the intensity that is fastest leading to an increase in fitness and a so-called safe intensity that will not aggravate the existing difficulties. In common practice, we can navigate according to the so-called speech test, for example, if we can speak briefly during the course of movement activity. Of course, that doesn't mean we have to talk all the time we're on the move. Duration. If we start moving, 15 to 20 minutes with gradual extension, for example, by 5 minutes per week to the target time of 40 to 50 minutes per movement activity are sufficient. If we have time, we can go on a trip for a few hours. It's going to be a softer intensity movement, but it's going to be a long one, and it's going to be metabolised as a preferred energy source, it's going to be burning, it's going to be fat. We have to assume that at such a load, fitness goes up slower. The movement will give you much more than just reducing the risk of cancer. It improves quality of life, has antidepressant effects, reduces blood pressure, improves diabetes compensation, lowers fat levels in the blood, improves immune status and can be continued for a long time. You can always start, and if you are not sure which direction and how to move, for example because of diseases, do not be afraid to consult your doctor. What can you do for yourself, what does Professor Matoulek say? Don't believe in miraculous diets. Strict dietary restrictions lead more often to failure than success. Try to make sustainable solutions for the long term. It is not as important how quickly you lose weight, but whether you are able to stay in the set mode. Do not worry about medicines, there are safe preparations that effectively support weight loss. Move is a priority, take time for it. It's not something that comes down to when all the duties are fulfilled. If you manage to bring the children into movement and sport, they will benefit from it all their lives. [[11.30 hours]] And I'd like to add that the sport is very important. I haven't heard the word "sport" since the new government. When I became Minister of Finance in January 2014, the state put 3.6 billion in sport. And we had two of these power centers, let's say, budget centers. The Ministry of Education, which didn't care much, and the Czech Olympic Committee. And since I've been playing sports my whole life, I figured sports was important. It's important, we're all excited when Ester Ledecká wins or Nagano. We should support sports. And we made it to the budget of 11.5 billion in our government. And we did a sports agency here. And we didn't split the money in the bars of Intercontinental or the weird different apartments here in Senovážná náměstí or -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u13	I'm gonna ask you to stick to the subject. We are discussing material relating to health, not sport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u14	So I just want to ask the government if she can come up with a project because sport is healthy. And it's important, it's important for our children too, it's important for parents to have money so their children can play sports. Because we're getting into a situation where parents don't have the money to sport their children, and it's a shame. So I'm gonna go back to the health department. Here I have Dr. Martin Loučka, a specialist in the psychology of patients with incurable diseases. We often do not want to talk about issues related to illness and our health and wait for a more appropriate moment. But then, unfortunately, it's too late. Martin Loučka is a psychologist and assistant at Medical Psychology III. LF UK in Prague. He studied and worked at universities in England, the Netherlands and the United States. He specializes in subjects of quality of life, doctor-patient communication and examination of how patients with severe illness understand their prognosis. He founded and manages a palliative care centre dedicated to developing care for patients in advanced stages of incurable disease. Dr. Loučka says, "Don't be afraid. The word cancer is a great source of anxiety and fear for a common person. Historically, we have it associated with incurable illness, pain and severe treatment. These concerns are understandable, but it must be stressed that it is precisely prevention and early detection of the disease that can help to ensure that our concerns are not fulfilled, or at least to mitigate the progress of the disease as much as possible. The aim of this text is to offer three recommendations for stress management and anxiety related to the topic of cancer and oncological prevention. Let's talk about the hard stuff together. The decision to go for a preventive examination may not be easy. Some people are afraid of the examination because they are afraid of a possible positive outcome. Someone has experience with cancer in the family and doesn't want to summon him. Others may be concerned about the examination because they are not sure how it is actually going. Some consider it unnecessary because they are not aware of the real risk and benefit of early diagnosis of the disease. If you talk to someone who has similar doubts or concerns, it is good to first express understanding and respect and say: I hear that you are concerned about this examination. You're afraid of what would be if they found something. At the same time, we can say: By examining whether your concerns are appropriate or not, and I will be very happy if you are at peace and we both know that we were afraid for nothing. For a number of diseases, early detection can mean a better chance of healing, and that should be worth it. But it is good not to urge others, we will not force a man against his will. A better strategy can be to offer support or information. If we know that one of our loved ones belongs to a risk group, it is good to outline the subject first and say: Perhaps it would be good. Try to think about it, I'll be happy to walk you there if you want. It is also advisable to recommend an interview with a doctor who could explain how a preventive examination is conducted and to clarify any questions. Let us strive for internal balance. Remembering one's mental health is no big discovery. An old proverb says: a healthy spirit in a healthy body. And the opposite is true. Modern times often put us in situations where we have great demands, and not everyone can find time for sufficient relaxation, stopping and reflecting on how he thrives in life. The causal link between stress and oncological disease has not yet been established, but we know that in some types of cancer, long-term stress can accelerate the course of the disease. If you are under pressure for a long time and are unable to find a place to relax and relax, you can seek advice from a psychologist or try some meditation exercises or relaxation. Sleep well, eat well It has been shown that poor habits in terms of composition, volume and timing of diet significantly affect stress levels and also relate to the occurrence of oncological diseases. Similarly, lack of sleep plays a key role. It is not our intention to recommend a specific diet, but if you want to strengthen your immunity, it is good to start with these two things: eat regularly and well and sleep well enough, the minimum should be 7 to 8 hours a day) So Dr. Loučka says what you can do for yourself. Support your loved ones in the decision to take a preventive examination. It's very important. The percentage of people who walk is still inadequate and we really have a lot to catch up on compared to other countries in the European Union. Don't be alarmed. Appreciate the courage to talk about these issues. Discuss your concerns or uncertainties with someone close to you or with your doctor. Remember the beneficial effect of sufficient sleep and healthy lifestyle. So in conclusion, in the Czech Republic, one person dies of cancer every 20 minutes. Every day 200 people get cancer. We can save two-thirds of the people, but we can't save one-third of them. More than 500,000 of our fellow citizens live with or have been treated with cancer in the past. Although the burden of the Czech population with malignant tumors is high and the number of cancers is growing in the long term, more and more patients manage to heal from cancer. In this we are among the best of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. This is certainly due to the fact that the Czech Republic has great doctors, we are constantly investing in modern devices for diagnosis and treatment of cancer. In the availability of fully-paid modern anticancer drugs, we are among the best. And, of course, it takes money to do that, and it needs to be kept. We have a well-organized screening for cervical, colon and breast cancer. Children have the opportunity to be vaccinated against cervical cancer viruses and some other cancers, such as head and neck. The results of these preventive programmes are already present. The number of new cases of cervical cancer and colon cancer has been reduced. Breast cancer can be detected by mammographic screening in time when this disease is highly likely to be completely curable. Another good news is that the lung cancer in men has decreased. Cancer that we most die of. Do you remember years ago when we supported the anti-smoking law and taxed tobacco products significantly, thereby reducing their availability? It was the right decision. These are partial achievements, but it's certainly not enough for me. Experts predict that cancer will continue to increase in the coming years. Not only those that are typical of economically advanced countries and are related to the lifestyle, but also as a result of the ageing population. By 2035 the cancer will be the main cause of the deaths of the European Union's population. The treatment will probably be more effective, but it will also be more complex, more demanding for new technologies and, of course, more expensive. I'm sure you know we've prepared a big recovery plan for our economy after the covid. Yes, our government has prepared it. Some of the money from it, but also from other programmes, will be directed into the fight against cancer, which is also an important social and economic problem with such a high incidence. Top experts from various fields of medicine from all over the Czech Republic participated in drawing up these plans and recommendations. Everyone has excellent results in the fight against cancer. They have proven that cancer can be defeated, prevented, and treated. Our common strategy is to save thousands of other lives of Czech citizens every year and to get the Czech Republic in statistics among the best countries in Europe. And I'm glad I could work with these experts. And every Czech citizen should have this brochure, every family should have it, they should read it. [[shows]] [[11.40 hours]] And I would love to, but unfortunately, it doesn't seem like it so far that the new Minister of Health will continue the national cancer project. We won 50 billion for Czech health services for the next programme period 2021-2027, 2014-2020 it was ridiculous 8. The resort was never set up to be able to raise European money at all. And there is, of course, the project of the Czech Cancer Institute. Yes, here in Prague, I wanted us to build a state-of-the-art cancer hospital. State-of-the-art. The state-of-the-art prevention center will be in Yellow in Brno. And here was supposed to be a state-of-the-art cancer hospital, the one in Texas, the one in Norway, there's only seven in Europe, only seven, including research. It wasn't that other oncology centers were supposed to end, that's nonsense. There was supposed to be synergy. And now I'm hearing that the project and the money are supposed to split up somewhere, I don't know how no one's gonna be able to track them down. I understand it's supposed to be on Motola campus. I originally wanted it within the area of Royal Vinohrady, it could have been a great hospital, even an architecturally interesting, new dominant Prague, which the whole world would talk about. And for that, we've set aside 15 billion, and I've won them. That was a priority. So I would very much like Mr. New Minister to forget that it was some Babiš who brought it up. Babiš didn't do it for himself, Babiš wanted it for people. Yes, in Prague, where they hate Babiš, but that's okay, that's cool. It was for people. And you came before the election and said: campaign, campaign! But I've been working on it since 2020. And I spoke to the President of the European Commission, and I spoke to Commissioner Stella. And there was a team. And, of course, the Health Department officials resisted because they never built anything in your life. It's hell when faculty hospital directors go to the ministry and there some clerk who didn't even build a doghouse is trying to see what the hospital in Bohunice looks like! Or what the new obstetrics at Apolina's would look like, the legendary obstetrics. [[A note off the microphone from the right.]] They're not my officers, Mr. Colleague. By the way, the head of legislation was top 09. Why do you say that? Who's my clerk? Those are the officials who have been there for a long time, I haven't planted one. None. Professor Vašáková came to see us, and now the new minister has driven him away. [[A note from the diaper.]] I did. Anyway, I guess she didn't want to work with him, so she went back to where she was -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u15	Mr President, we are not addressing the Ministry of Health's personnel questions, but we are dealing with the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u16	Yes, we don't. Okay. So health care is the most important thing. And it would be good for the Minister of Finance to see that too. He says he's gonna keep the state insured. Well, I'd like to keep the payment decree arguing with the agreement of individual care providers. [[with emphasis]] But I'm worried that all of these projects that we've spent so much energy on, so much energy that they're gonna go to waste because everything we've invented, great things for people, you don't want to do them on principle. And here's the last time Mr. Výborný... Here I have it somewhere where he said it - at the press conference now - that it will be secured available, quality and to a sufficient extent adequate health care. Appropriate. Well, the new minister started with the fact that it's normal to wait six hours at the office, that it's normal. Well, I don't think that's normal. We also did not want Czech health to be privatized again. I think the ODS has a lot of experience with this, look in Central Bohemia as it is, and in Ústí Region and others. So we don't want privatization, we don't want healthcare for the rich. We want to keep doing what we started. And it's all on paper. It's all on paper. Here I have, for example, the development of dental care from the perspective of VZP. Health care costs incurred. And it's gone up, too. This increased by 46 percent, the cost of dental care. That's a big problem, yes. The dentists are all in Prague, Brno, but going to the dentist in Ostrava or Ústí Region is a problem. So even in this particular example, we had a new strategy. We want to ensure improvement and availability of dental care, covering dental services for insured persons. So the programs are ready. First of all, dental care, oncological care, we have prepared a strategy - health policy, accessibility, quality and stability. Well, what was it like before we changed it, what was the past? There were only disputes between health service providers and doctors with the Ministry of Health and Government, health workers strikes, associations of providers strikes, media campaigns against the Ministry of Health and the Government, escalating tension and frustration of patients, health professionals, health service providers. Inaccessibility of healthcare for patients, a dysfunctional failing health care system. Passiveity of system participants - Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic, health insurance companies, providers of health services, problem solving, helplessness, disruption, promotion of partial interests. The absence of challenges to the strategy of the direction of functional measures, accumulation of problems, embezzlement, clientelism, tunneling of the VZP system, we remember what they were doing there in the past and robbed everything. Managing the crown through payment decrees demotivating providers of health services to treat patients and destabilizing providers of health services. Lack of network concept of health service providers, absence of care organisation, non-functional network of PZS, lack of capacity in most regions, long waiting periods, regional differences in availability of care, regional differences in funding, negative motivation of providers, inaccessibility of care. The remuneration mechanisms were set only for operational financing. The decreasing volume of health services. Negative motivation to treat patients. Limiting health care provision. Defragmentation of care. Maximizing the benefits of individual PZS without binding to care. Non-functional system of reimbursement of medicinal products, many years of administrative procedure to determine the amount and conditions of reimbursement from the SÚKL. Non-communication and non-cooperation in solving health problems between the Ministry of Health, government, health service provider, health insurance companies. Inaccessibility of emergency care. Hospitals refusing to receive patients from medical emergency services, ambulances around the hospital in the region. The absence of dental care, patients are unable to obtain a dentist to register them for care. Inaccessibility of practitioners. That was all before. And here I could read another half-hour of everything. [[11.50 hours]] Long waiting periods for operations, therapeutic interventions, total endoprosthetics, radiotherapy, the availability of specialised outpatient care, the availability of palliative care, the availability of follow-up and long-term care, the absence of investment in infrastructure - it was not invested at all. Judicial disputes of patients seeking treatment, calls for professional companies. So we had it all here. And that changed for us, and especially the strategy was patient-oriented care, the development of all segments of health service providers according to the needs of providers, expert recommendations of professional medical companies. The remuneration decree has completely changed. It wasn't that he always threw a pitchfork into it so he could manipulate it and pass it to his friends. A conceptual system to improve the availability of care organisation, access to care, stability and quality of health care. The strategic goals we had or have, or are, or maybe the minister will ever read it. It's insurance material. Strategic objectives - the long-term stabilisation of the availability of health services and the financing of health services from VZP funds, the simultaneous fulfilment of all three objectives. Ensure long-term and stable availability of health services, care organisation and access to care patients. Yes, the patient comes first. And that's where the big reserves are. Provision of long-term and stable funding for the network of contractual providers of health services. Well, let's hope that when the Treasury Minister says that today, yes, the balances are high, we'll see how it looks next year and how the insurance companies will handle it, but I think we need to know that there are some reserves there. Who knew the biggest pandemic was coming in the last 100 years, and how much did covid cost us? We're investing in health care, it was a strategy, a change of attitude. Health is a priority, for us the absolute priority of health. Value of investment in health, not just cargo, but a new conceptual system approach of health policy. We invest in increasing the availability of healthcare, that was our strategy, that's our strategy. And I don't know, maybe we can at least agree here when you reject everything that we propose, but perhaps the health of our citizens might be interested in a new government. It doesn't look like it yet, it doesn't actually look like anything, because the government is barely interested in citizens. We invest in increasing and standardizing the quality of health care. We invest in devices, modern medicines, medical devices, therapeutic methods and technologies. We invest in improving the health care organisation and passing through the patient system. We invest in the development and stabilisation of the network of contracting healthcare providers. According to professional medical recommendations, excellent cooperation with professional companies was started, i.e. systematic cooperation on health care for patients according to expert recommendations of individual professional companies. Organisation of care, transfer of patient by system, pharmaceutical policy, administrative management led by SÚKL, access to state-of-the-art therapy, working committee of VZP for non-replaced medicinal products, financing of specialised central care, targeted payment mechanisms, prevention, screening programmes and, of course, strategies, organisation and financing of health services. What's the most important thing? No provision of care for patients, increased availability of care, access to state-of-the-art therapy, effectiveness of spent funds and financial sustainability of the system. A strategy aimed at actively ensuring and improving the availability of healthcare and paid health services. A new strategy focused on the patient, availability and quality has been implemented for us. Active provision and improvement of the availability of healthcare and paid health services for insured persons. It is not all the same in our Republic, it is not, there are big differences, and it is therefore important to implement this strategy: First pillar, conciliation procedure, renewal of the Institute of Negotiations, payment decree with providers and conclusion of a agreement on the rational setting up of payment mechanisms between groups of providers and health insurance companies, the basic payment framework. Yes, it was only under Minister Vojtěch that he didn't have to go into this at all and influence the way it was before. The second pillar is targeted payment mechanisms of VZP, organisation and quality of care programmes of VZP plus aimed at addressing the availability and improvement of the quality of treatment of chronic diseases, active pharmaceutical policy of VZP ensuring availability and access to medicinal products, various programmes. Third pillar, network creation and replenishment, network capacity solutions and network structures, area zoning, network status monitoring, capacity management of contractual providers, implementation of strategy and active contractual terms of VZP, balancing regional differences, improving access to healthcare. So health services should be the top priority of this government, and I don't feel that way yet. That's why I'm worried if the new government is really going to continue the strategy. And that's a strategy, for example, for VZP, where the new coalition is now sitting, you've chosen new people there, so hopefully this will continue. And indeed, the prevention, the fight against cancer, is in the interests of all our citizens. All of them. All of them. And there are big reserves in that if everyone read the brochure, yes, and you can laugh that I invented it and I'm proud and proud that I did it, and of course I did it for people. I did it for people so people wouldn't die from cancer. So I would like to call on the Minister to continue to do so, and of course I hope that the Minister of Finance will have enough money as we - we - obviously supported the financing of health care. And, of course, this is still the debate over and over again, that whoever gave as part of the covid, how much debt has increased, but I repeat again, and the Minister of Finance knows that we have the sixth best finances, that although the trend has accelerated, it was pre-financing, so you have enough money, Minister. And the fact that you took 14 billion insurance companies is... I don't know why you did it. Yes, they have balances, but what's the development going to be? And of course you put them in a position that they don't know what's going to happen. So tell me what's next year. After all, by the end of May, you should have some idea what the budget of 2023 will look like. And we repeat once again that the budget is not only expenditure, but also revenue. And you've got a lot of that revenue. I have not even heard that the current government would ever address the European funds, how much money you have there. You still have a balance from the 2014 2020 programme, you have about 200 billion there, that should be affected. And you have two thousand billion new programs and a Modernization Fund. So you have enough money. Look at ČEZ's profits, much higher, you can take a special dividend. Finally look at OKD, there's money. The money is, but you're still saying you don't want to give it, and now there's a headline that you'll only get in four months - four months - now you've announced the budget result by the end of April, so there's an increase in annual budget revenue in four months, including the payments of 47 billion, in four months you have. And at least that increase will be over 100 billion. More than 100 billion. So stop saying there's no money. And you have this money because people are paying your inflation, which you can't, but because of which you just have a huge cash flow. Huge collection. And it would be fair for you to return that money to people and, above all, for that money to continue investing in health care. So thank you so much for that. And then... [[Aligns the materials.]] I'm not leaving yet. [[12.00 hours]] I just wanted to say that for my political career, because I came out of business, I always published a publication. And I haven't looked up any publications from you who have been here since the revolution. I know you guys are always laughing that it sucks, but it would actually be nice if you kept telling me what you're doing. I'm like the Finance Minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u17	Mr President, I am leading you to discipline, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to speak to this point, and this is about insurance against public health insurance, and not about your publications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u18	Yes. Mr President, I am talking about publications that talk about money. As Minister of Finance, I published this brochure. [[He's pointing.]] Then I issued "My balance sheet meeting with the Prime Minister " because he fired me in the meantime. [[Without Prime Minister]] And then we had other publications. It's all about money. And of course this is a publication, I've already shown it, here I've read what we've done for health care. [[He's pointing.]] When I came up with the idea of a National Investment Plan...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u19	Mr President, I am sorry, but I am actually leading you to discipline. Stick to this point, which is about insurance against public health insurance. And it's not about the National Investment Plan or any other plan. Stick to this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u20	Mr President, you are mistaken. It's about money for Czech health care. And, of course, in this National Investment Plan, which is by 2050, there is an overview of how much money goes into health care, how much investment is planned there. And the Department of Health has 163 billion for 30 years. Sure. [[Minister Stanjura speaks to Mr Babiš off the microphone.]] But, Minister, look at these hospitals. Come and see Thomayerka or the Royal Vinohrady, the Bulovka. We started the investments. And here's the whole investment plan, even though, of course, you mocked everything. And in that health care there are twelve strategic projects: the Faculty Hospital of Royal Vinohrady - there is a project, the Faculty Hospital of Ostrava. I can read it here and read it for an hour again. Brno University Hospital, this is the construction of a gynecological and postpartum clinic. Well, you better hope this works out. So here's a list of 163 billion investments in health care. IKEM, Bohunice Psychiatric Hospital, Plzeň. Everything - you have it in detail. And it would be good for you to look into it sometime, or especially the Minister of Health should look at it, because investing only 1.8 billion in health care is so little. And now you've taken 14 billion of insurance companies and you've taken 5 billion of health care. Yes, you'll argue that it was a covid too. That's true, but the investment deficit that's in the health sector is huge. And there are huge problems. There's still a shortage of personnel. We had a sister project and stuff. There is, of course, a problem with education and other things. So there's so much to be done, and I still don't feel like your government is interested and doesn't have health as a priority. [[has]] And of course it's about money. It's about money. And, of course, we're gonna watch it, we're gonna point it out. Let us hope that Minister Válek will implement at least some of our projects. So enough for me not to hold you back. Of course, if you're interested, I can read here again about three hours of different health projects. But let's hope it did some good. At the very least, it was for citizens to know that there is an important publication that is important to them, which can really save their lives. And that's what I've always wanted, our people. That's why they voted for us, which is why I went into politics to work for them, not to make a living with politics. And the prospectus and the national fight against cancer are important. And once again, I call on both the Minister and the Prime Minister to keep an eye on it. We personally presented it in Brussels, and there are 50 billion. So I wonder how much money the minister spends on health care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u21	Good noon, Madame, gentlemen. Your performance brought up two factual points. The first is Mrs Romana Bělohlávková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, through Madam President, I have two comments on Mr Babiš. On the one hand, I must say that he can read really better than to speak Czech, so he is commended for it. [[Inadmissible votes in the ranks of members of the YES.]] In the long hours we spent here, there was a lot of information from the flyers, which I'm sure were correct. There was also a lot of half-truths, untruths and lies. I'm not going to talk about everyone, but I have to respond to one of the sentences that was said right at the beginning, and that there is no vaccination against cancer. That sentence was really there. Although the Member then denied himself, it was evident that the materials were prepared by different persons and read leaflets from different publishers. But I think it is really crucial that it is said that cancer prevention in the form of vaccination exists. It's a vaccination against human papillomaviruses. This vaccination is from 1. 1st year for boys and girls between 13th and 14th year completely free. Its effectiveness is more than 90 percent. And the infection is directly related to these viruses with cervical cancer, throat and rectum. It is necessary not to question this preventive program, but very much at all levels to encourage and encourage parents to have their children vaccinated. So please, let's really hear not populist support for oncological programs, but the actual one. Cancer vaccination exists. We're rooting for him and supporting him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Minister Zbyněk Stanjura is now registered with the factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u24	If Mr Babiš were to discuss this bill, he knows that I have already answered some of the questions. But he has a habit of making a long speech and then disappearing. [[A disagreeable response from members of the YES: Mr Babiš is in the hall.]] I'm not gonna ironize or question that flyer, like you said, cancer prevention. But anyone who's ever presented anything will tell you that if you want it to have an impact, four hours reading in a monotonous voice, the impact is just wrong. I think it is much better and much more effective if you give it to Members and they can study it in peace when they want to. The material is for download, so we can all say in our MPs that the material can be downloaded. By the way, the distribution wasn't forbidden by the opposition. At that time, you controlled the Ministry of Health and the Board of Directors of the VZP. And now for the taxes. Mr. Andrej Babiš, of course, knows. I said that last night to another president of the opposition club. Let us not compare, when comparing the revenue of the state budget, the reality of last year with this year's reality. Let us compare the approved budget with the implementation of the budget, Mr Babiš, through the President. I think it's logical and normal. The only tax that is currently being paid exactly as expected is VAT of 33.3%, which corresponds to the fact that we have had four months. All other taxes have transactions less than four months. There are no tens of billions. Yes, against last year's reality, it's higher than the 47 billion, but that's what we were budgeting. This money is already involved in the budget. Then we need to compare the relevant data. We could also compare it to 2019, 2020 and say how it changed or didn't change to those flights. But we have an approved state budget... [[Time.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u25	Another factual point is Mr Miloslav Janulík, Mrs Adámková will be prepared. And there are others reporting, too, but there are still a few factual ones ahead of you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I just have to say it briefly. I just have to say it to my colleague, Bělobrádková. I'm really allergic to hearing it, and I'm particularly concerned that it's from the right part of the quasi-right part of the spectrum. Nothing in the world or in medicine is free. Please don't use this ridiculous semantic crap that's been going on for years, telling patients that something is free. Someone always has to pay for everything. Nothing in the world is free. Not even the vaccination. The vaccination is covered by the insurance company. So don't use that kind of caramel (?) It's pointless that something's free. There's never anything free in health care. It's been like this all along that the paramedics always basically paid for it by doing it. But I'm begging you, don't use that. Of course, it's obvious that the insurance company pays for it, but this nonsense is like saying something is free, so it makes these patients feel like it's completely worthless, and it's just not worthless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u27	It is now registered with Mrs Věra Adámková's factual remark and will be prepared by Mrs Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u28	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to respond to a doctor who is no longer here, never mind, I will tell her later this afternoon, because the last House was very interested in vaccination against human papillomavirus. It was the YES movement, which also brought about the fact that we are going to expand more precisely the payment of public health insurance. So it's not true that it's not known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u29	Thank you, too. Mrs Peštová is now signed in and will be prepared with Mr Brázdil in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u30	Hello, Madam President. I would like to respond to Minister Stanjura, through the President. In any case, you may be right that Mr Babiš may have a monotonous voice, and you say that if he gave it to the ANO Members, we might have put a little bit more pressure on it. I agree with that. But in essence, Minister, through Madam President, if you did not limit us to time, we would even like to say so. But unfortunately, we have ten plus ten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u31	Mr Brázdil, Mr Babiš, will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u32	Thank you in two minutes. I also wanted to respond to Dr. Bělohlávková. She said that Mr. Babiš said that there was no vaccination against cancer. The doctor must have said it wrong. There really is no vaccination against cancer. This vaccination is against papillomavirus, which causes it, but once you have cervical cancer, there's no vaccination at this point. She was wrong. I think I know what she meant. However, I also want to respond to Mr Stanjura. You know, you have a lot of information on TV today, every 10 minutes a day about Ukraine, but about that - people you should do, how you should take care of your health, the prevention, the education of those people, it's missing. You know, sure, it costs money. Now, if we could just agree that there will be five minutes of education on Friday right before the TV news, people, try to do this. Purely just a medical window for five minutes. It'll be five minutes, but five minutes a year will make our nation move on. He won't be so sick, we'll be able to help ourselves. I just wanted to say that there's just not enough prevention, and it costs nothing more than spreading information. And I know, you're gonna say, maybe it was a delay. But if it could educate any of you, any of you, the people who listened to Mr. Andrej Babiš and now you realized it, it was good. Maybe you'll spread it, too, and it'll bring some effect. Well, that was my point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u33	Well, thank you for keeping time. The next one is with Mr Babiš's actual enrollment. [[He doesn't want to get out.]] You have a logged in de facto from the site, right through the device, if you don't want to use it, so... You report with priority rights, but in that case, factual remarks take precedence. Therefore, Minister Stanjura is now registered, followed by an application for a de facto Mr Bureš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u34	Sound's probably getting a little rough around here. Madam Member of the YES movement, I apologize, now I lost my name, claiming that I said that the leaflet, the manual, was to be handed out by Mr Babiš to the ANO Members so that they could read it. I didn't say the first sentence or the second sentence. I said that if I wanted to present something - and I didn't question the contents of the manual at all - it was much more effective than reading it in a monotonous voice for four hours to give it to all the Members on the bench so that we could get to know it in peace. That's what I said. So I meant all of us Members regardless of political affiliation, and I didn't think anyone should read it instead of Mr Babiš. And I still have... I have asked the opposition Members, not a rhetorical but serious question, here in this debate several times yesterday. Mr Babiš said that he was worried or thought that by the end of the year the health insurance balances would be worth 25 billion if I had noted this well in the educational lecture on cancer prevention. And I will repeat the question because I have not yet heard the answer: What is the corresponding reserve according to the opposition? What is the corresponding state of funds for health insurance companies at the end of the year? We think that more than 40 billion is sufficient. At this point, I can't estimate any more because of the unsubs. But in order to have a rational debate, we also need to know the opposition's view of the document. On top of that, Mr Babiš says he doesn't know how it's going to be next year. That's why I said it's a shame that he wasn't here, and I was talking about it here, that we're going to automatically read the valorisation mechanism into the law before we read it in this bill, and we're going to propose that it be the same as the valorisation mechanism in pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u35	So now Mr Jan Bureš is signed in with the de facto Member and Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u36	Thank you. I would like to commend my colleague, Janulík, who said here recently that debts are fiction, that there are no debts, that he was talking about pensioners from Austria who come to us and actually don't see what the Federal Republic of Austria owes, and today he said that nothing is free, that everything costs some money, which, of course, is debt. So I'm really glad you've been studying this since the last show, and he's already moved on with this thing. So thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u37	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a doyen of this congregation and I am a man who has lived his whole life on cancer. I was there when the HPV vaccine developed. I have to cut off the breasts of those women who have cancer with these hands, and there's no one in this room who knows more about this problem than I do. That is why I am terribly sorry that Mr Babiš is saying things that are incorrect, inaccurate at the moment, it does not matter at all, but that he is speaking against the fact that we want to get into the law a mechanism that will increase the money we will have in health insurance. That, finally, after years, we've come to have an automatic valorisation for state insurance. That insurance companies will be able to work with the prospect of what money they're going to have. That we can work with the fact that what we use and do has some developmental curve in it and that we can count on this curve. [[12.20 hours]] We've been fighting for the 30 years of the insurance company's existence. We're fighting to make this mechanism work. When it's finally on the table, and that's what we're talking about, nothing else, not at all about viruses, not at all about cancer, we're talking about whether health care will have enough money, then suddenly Mr. Babiš doesn't want it. I'm asking him why. Why don't you give insurance companies a valorization that brings them extra percentages every year? That's my question. And I'm not even asking you how cancer is treated. I know something about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u39	Please, next time through the President. In addition, Mr Vondráček is signed in with Mr Vondráček and Mr Janulík will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u40	Thank you for the opportunity to make a point of fact. I would like to comment on the debate under way. I just want to know on the screen record at which moment the debate was opened, because it was definitely not last night. I know this because I have watched in detail the presentation of the priority rights, when my colleague Nacher was acting with priority rights, I know this because he approached me twice with a nasty remark by Minister Stanjura and I could not respond factually, because the debate has not yet been opened. That's why I remember it so well. So, first of all, I want everything to be okay. Secondly, I'd like to tell the Minister that it's not very correct when he knows I can't react at the time. And it was 2:00 in the morning and now it's 12:20 and it'll be good not to yell at each other again. We've been here eight years, so we can communicate normally. There has therefore been a limitation in speaking time, in my view, before the debate was opened. It's a thing that I don't remember here all the time, that would have just narrowed it down to ten minutes actually at a point. I can't argue that I can't. [[Is it?]] The point is open, it's been voted. It's okay. It's just that it hasn't happened here yet. There's always been some basic contributions. For example, I have here a real - I will read you a quote when he fought against the limitations of speaking time of the present Prime Minister, who said here: Coalition MPs did so precisely in line with Andrej Babiš's words that Parliament is a blabbermouth. Again, it turns out that the government is not interested in the arguments or stories of specific people for whom electronic sales records mean liquidation," said ODS President in the statement. - So now the coalition guys are doing exactly the same thing the coalition guys used to do. Oh, the exchanges of governments, oh, the exchanges of oppositions and coalitions. Everything happens again, nobody remembers anything. However, I would only ask that this be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. For example, for me, I was advised that an emergency meeting... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'll sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u41	As far as the opening of the debate is concerned, this was done in the course of the meeting by Vice-President Skopeček this morning. It is also signed up with Mr Janulík in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u42	Well, I have to respond to my honored colleague, Bureš, who got off here. What he's done here, I'm sure you'll tell him, is a classic pons asilinus or donkey bridge. [[asinorum]] And it's just a saying about how much Mr likes it here - if you'd kept your mouth shut, you could've stayed a philosopher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u43	Next is Mr Feranec, followed by Mr Mašek. Both factual, final factual remarks so far. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just respond. It says here that actually the purpose of this law is to set up a valorisation mechanism. As presented, it is reduced by 14 billion. Period. If someone reads at second reading - I don't know if they will, I suppose they will when the minister has promised. And I'm asking, even if it's set up, what base? Now it is suggested to cut to CZK 1,500. Isn't that right? 1 560 kroner, yes. Today's 1 970 is supposed to go down, or a year ago it was 1 760, plus minus. I'm asking, when does it get to level 2021? I'm curious. I'm just saying, the way the law is presented, it's not a valorisation mechanism. There's no mention of it. If it's loaded, it's fine, but when does it get to this level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u45	Thank you. There is now a de facto Mr. Jiří Mašek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u46	Madam President, Minister, it is also up to Mr Svoboda, who basically said here that this law is about increasing finances for health care, if I simplify it very much. But what has been put forward so far is just the opposite. It's a reduction. It's a reduction of CZK 400 net per state insured person. So this is the only way I want to react. Of course, I will then express my position as guarantor of the club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u47	Thank you. Now the de facto Minister of Stanjury. Mr. Svoboda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u48	Either we listen to each other or we don't. We have to choose. I offered yesterday that the mechanism was ready. I offered the YES movement that we could discuss it before we put it in the system, and that we are ready to debate those parameters. The offer stands. If we put him in the system, he's already there, and he'll be there by the end of second reading, either in agreement or without agreement. I can't say that in advance. Mr Feranec asked me a suggestive question about when it will be at 2021 level. Well, that's simple math. I was talking about it yesterday. This year we do not reduce payments against 2021, we maintain the level of 2021. That means the result will be 1 767 a month for state insurance. And now that it's $1967, so it's going to be on average, it's 1,567. And yesterday I told you to be effective at 1. 7. or 1. 8. it will work mathematically, but the aim is to maintain payment for state insured persons at the level of 2021. So once you approve the bill, it is guaranteed that it will be secured for 2021, and if we succeed - either with or without you - to enforce the valorisation formula, then we can very well estimate what payments will be according to those parameters in the years to come. And let me just say that we have suggested that the same mechanism should be used for valorising the payments for state insured persons that we use for pension valorisation, which is tested, functioning, and after various debates where we tried to model other parameters, so we have come to the conclusion that it seems to us to be the most correct and safest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u49	Thank you. One more application in fact, Mr Philipp's rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u50	Good afternoon. I'd like to go back to the beginning. I just don't like it when somebody gets their hands on some goodies that they didn't actually get their hands on. At the beginning, Mr Babiš spoke of the fact that he was the only one who added to the paramedics. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that during the time I was at the Ministry and when Minister Němeček was there, 30 percent of the medical staff were added to the salary. And if he gave us a little bit of insurance back then, so he didn't really fight back, so I'm sure we added more. Then I would also acknowledge that he brought, for example, 20 billion to REACT in health care. That was pretty nice, a chance for health care. Unfortunately, and here I would almost use the word "fouled up" by his minister Adam Vojtěch, who did the so-called push-button, in which the first part of the project was realized, exceeded the financial budget, so the second part of the project, the so-called "b," had to be cancelled about two hours before it was actually written out. So I would consider it a wasted chance. It was nice that he got the money, unfortunately after that, he couldn't spend it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u51	Thank you, too. Your speech raised another factual point, Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor. The minister's laughing already. Yes, logically, it must have provoked my point of fact. By your means, Madam President, to the rapporteur. There was no click. We've explained this here several times in the House attic. I even brought the evaluation criteria so you could take a look at it here. The only thing was that there was a huge excess of demand within one challenge, and therefore, even with the Regional Association, it was agreed that the money would be poured into those hospitals that had already been logged in, and that would reduce further challenges. But what happened? We have received other resources from the European Commission because, of course, we have negotiated, and these resources have continued to engage in health care. So roughly 22 billion went to health care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u53	So another factual point by the rapporteur. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u54	She was a klikačka girl. We can call it, or you can think whatever you want, or whatever you can call it, it was a push-off. Whoever clicked first, it just happened to Brno or Olomouc first, and he was in that order in the front. Because it was a big inconvenience to be polite, so there was this mechanism that the money from the "B" moved into the "A" to satisfy everyone and no one had any comments. B was canceled, C was reduced in those projects, and unfortunately it just turned out that a lot of money was spent on those projects, then fell under the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u55	So there is no more de facto, the Member has withdrawn it, so I will take advantage of the precious moment and load the apologies that I have here already quite a lot that I have run out of. So, at this point, I'm sorry for your attention. Mr Ondřej Kolář apologizes between 12 and 24 o'clock, i.e. midnight, because of illness. Minister Pavel Blažek apologizes for today's meeting from 12 a.m. to the end of the day for work reasons. Mr Jiří Navrátil apologizes between 12:00 and midnight for work reasons. He also apologizes to President Alena Schillerová, between 11.00 and 11.40, which is probably not read yet, so for reasons of work, she is already present. Minister Zdeněk Nekula apologizes this time, from 14:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. Here I have an apology from President Alena Schillerová between 9 and 11 for work reasons. Mr Roman Bělor continued to apologize between 9.05 and 10 hours for reasons of work. Mr Ivan Jáč apologized between 15 and midnight because of illness. Once again, President Schillerová, this time between 8 and 8.30 for work reasons. And Mr Richard Brabec, for health reasons, today within 15 hours. We should have everything out of an apology. And so now I have signed up with the priority right of President Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u56	Thank you for the floor. Well, I don't know where Mrs. Bělohlávková went and why she's telling the truth. It's not a flyer, it's a brochure, it's got a nice design. I read the part here, Professor Cibula: cervical cancer should not exist in an advanced country like the Czech Republic. And it says here, I read it, it's a papillomavirus vaccination. So I guess my colleague wasn't here. Yes, the cervix, it can be vaccinated there, that's all. I just read what the experts say. Mr. Svoboda is upset. I'm just reading what your colleagues say. You're a candidate for mayor in Prague, so I guess you're universal. I'm saying I'm just interpreting what experts say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u57	Please address the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u58	Through the President. So I guess you won't question these people who are here. They're medical capacities, and they're our most important oncologists, so I'm just here to interpret what they're saying. I guess Mrs. Bělohlávková wasn't here when she didn't hear about it, and she's trying to make a fool of me here. I read it clearly. I would still like to say to Minister Stanjur: you know the brochure. Well, you all know him. 'Cause this is where Jurečka yelled and everybody yelled, it's Babišův's election campaign! You forbade it from giving it to people. You forbade it from giving it to people. You forbid it. Yeah, this is where you yelled and threatened the insurance companies, because that's what he said on the mic, I was sitting here. You didn't want people to get it because you said it was Babišův's campaign. Well, the political oversight board said it wasn't a campaign. It wasn't a campaign. So please, I'd like to clear up the money with you, Minister. Mr Philipp, through Madam President, says that he was Deputy Minister to Šnajdr, Němeček. Do you know how much money you raised for health care for your sessions at the Department of Health? No, we weren't against it. We certainly didn't want to give money to the non-transparable instrumental commission, where they were throwing out medical capacities or letting them go, humiliating them where the business for the Moravian-Silesian region was being arranged, because that's where the minister came from. $30 billion, $30 billion. And under our rule, it's 228 billion. And this is where Mr Svoboda screamed, through Madam President, that the mechanism... So, Minister, tell me your mechanism. No, I don't understand. Try telling me. You, you have reduced the payment for state insured people to 2022 from CZK 1,967, and that is the law, at this point the law, the government's order, well, the government's order, and you have reduced it to CZK 1,767. That's how you cost the insurance companies 14 billion. Insurance companies have some reserves, and they have to tell us how much the balance should be. According to the information I received, the balances will be 25 billion. But it doesn't matter what the balance is. The insurance company should know. I'm just getting the information that I had that was gradually falling balances. 2022 was 60 billion or 65, 2021 was 50, you're saying 53. Okay, the more it's gonna be, I'm gonna have a problem with it... It's not about the balance. Well, you're saying that - and this is where my colleague Svoboda yelled - there's some kind of mechanism that will supply more money to health care. And I would like to know how, if you say, that in 2023 the payment for the state insured person will be CZK 1,567, so it will be exactly CZK 400 lower than we proposed in 2022, and it will be CZK 200 lower than you proposed in 2022 now after you took 14 billion from the insurance companies. Well, that's a mystery, that's a three-man who's not coming out. Then explain it to me. And above all, let's talk about the absolute amount. I don't care about any patterns and coefficients. Health spending in 2021 had 550 billion 583 million. So tell me how much healthcare will have spending in 2022 and how much 2023 will have in absolute billions, not some calculations and percentages. 2021 Health spending 550 billion 583 million. When our government joined, we increased health spending from 2017 to 2018 by 39, then by 34, then by 66 and last year by 88 billion. Here you go, I can get you that book if you want, that's where you'll find out what we were doing. So 550 billion in 2021. And I'm asking, how much spending is going to be in 2022 and 2023, when the mechanism is super? If it's more than 550 billion, I'm satisfied, I don't have a problem with it, I just don't understand how it could be, if - yes, it could be expenses, if you cut the payment for state insured people, you've already reduced it by 14 billion, now you want to cut it by another, but of course when you drain the reserves and leave them with the balances I don't know how much, so you get to it and theoretically the expense may be higher. But I don't know how. [[12.40 hours]] And if you want to talk about it, I'll be happy to visit you and I'll be happy to discuss it with you, because this has always been my topic. Like the Minister of Finance, like the Prime Minister. And, of course, as Treasury Secretary, I held the register, I didn't want to spend it. But as Prime Minister, I had a different opinion because, in the meantime, health has become an even greater priority than before. So I'm just repeating that... Yes, the brochure, you protested against it, you said it was a campaign. And if it's been promoted today and people have heard about it and looked it up, it's gonna be great. And it's gonna be great if the VZP gives it away, the brochure, because not everyone knows how to download it electronically. REACT-EU, Mr Member, through Madam President, this is awkward what you have said here. Yeah, maybe there was something wrong in the beginning. But the point is, everyone who wanted to get the money got it. We did. They got county hospitals, they got them. It was transparent, it was not influenced politically. And I brought 50 billion from Brussels for health care. Your Nečas brought eight. Not yours, Minister of Finance. Fifty-eight. And I think there are clear dates for that. So I don't know why you say it didn't. I have information that it's been received. And if it didn't, I'd like to see the list that didn't. Well, so overall, the resort-- you're saying some of our officials. [[The rapporteur responds off the microphone.]] What officers of ours? They're your officers. You were sitting there at the šnajdroid to guard the interests of KDU-ČSL. After all, I remember those debates that we did the first government, Sobotka and colleague Bělobrádek, and they said, "We have to have deputys everywhere." And I say, "Why?" What Deputys? No, this was your system. You picked up hundreds of your people there. Jurečka, how many did he pick up? Two hundred for agriculture. You put those pages everywhere. Well, now you're getting on with it. I didn't have any. I didn't have any. I took them as clerks. As clerks. I don't. I've never bribed our membership base with posts, so I don't know what you're talking about. I remember sitting with Sobotka and my colleague, Bělobrádek, about who was supposed to be the Minister of Health, and basically nobody had the offer. And now I've forgotten the name of that... well, Žaloudík. And I said, I said to Sobotka, "Why don't you put Mr. Žaloudík in?" That would make a great minister. And that's the oncologist from Yellow from Brno. But Sobotka put the schnajdroid in there because he continued to do it. He continued. I remember the tweets. He wasn't able to drive when he was 12. [[Newsletter off the microphone.]] But what? But how? That's what happened. I wrote forty-six letters to Mr. Němeček. Forty-six. Well, you took care of KDU's interests. I don't blame you. I'm telling you, you were there to lobby for KDU, and that's okay, no. So your results were what they were. And it didn't change until when Minister Ludvík came, he was able to negotiate something. So as for the money, I'd like to know from Minister Stanjura how many billions a year it will be spending. [[unintelligible]] How much? So 550 billion 583 for 2021, and how many billions it's going to be. And the mechanism, if you invite us, we'll be thrilled. If you don't talk to us, basically everything we say is wrong. And then I don't understand when I said you got $40.3 billion in four months, extra year-on-year. Here's some headline from the Anti-Babish List: Stanjura was wrong, he's going to collect a hundred billion extra in taxes. [[shows]] I don't know how you're wrong. Of course you're gonna pick an extra one, right? So try to tell us what the mechanism will be. If I don't get it, if you're reducing your payment to state insurance companies, the only way you can do that is to drain the insurance reserves if you want to increase your health expenses. But I don't know what you want. So it would be good for you to tell us. If it's now or some other time, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u59	It is now signed with priority rights by Minister Stanjura. And I would like to report that, according to the agreement of the Presidents of all the Members of the Clubs, I would then like to make a recess at the Grémia meeting in order to agree on how we will proceed further at this meeting. So... And yet you want to speak with Mrs... Then it's a grémium. Okay. Now, then, the Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u60	Well, I have some other information, so I thought I'd come to the government, so I don't know. Actually, I wanted a real one. So I'm gonna... Mr. Babiš doesn't know what valorisation patterns are with the retirees, so I'll say it. An increase in inflation and half the growth in real wages. This at retirement, we're proposing the same mechanism. I'm ready to debate numbers. I said the money he's telling me about is already involved, and it's in an approved budget. They're in an approved budget. So it's not any other revenue that we can now think about, what other expenses we're going to use for. And that's reality. And I would need this debate to be equivalent, Mr Member, through Madam President. You said health expenses were around 550 billion in 2021. And I'd need to spread them out, what you're counting all the 550 billion in the health sector, because it's clearly not the cost of the health insurance system. And to make sense of this debate, we have to have the same input to the debate, or we're going to be coming out of different numbers, and the debate isn't going anywhere. So after the break -- I think it's a good thing that the Gremium can work out how we're going to proceed -- it would be good if you weren't just me, but you told all the other Members and Members what the amount is made of. Negative is the expenses in the health insurance system plus-- plus we need to hear that so that we can have a substantive debate over that number. If I don't know what it's made of, I can't give you the number you think should be with your 550 billion. That's all. I made it in two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u61	So now a few factual points. First of all, Mr Vondráček is registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u62	Well, thank you. On that subject again. I'm sorry, everyone. I went to check the video and audio footage. Vice-President Skopeček at the beginning at 8 o'clock when he started, so he said: We are in a general debate and we have applications with priority rights. He didn't open it. No one opened it that night either. And he couldn't even open it because there were applications with priority rights. I don't want to do anything about it. I just hope we can continue our consensus here somehow. I just want to point out that I was right when I said that the general debate had not been properly opened until now. And now that I have the factual point, I wanted to share with you the experience of last term. When there was also an extraordinary meeting and the opposition had several points, and because, of course, there were some delays in the discussion, I also thought at the time that we would interrupt some point and put it at a less controversial point. Or, most importantly, to discuss a point, I've been communicating with legislation. At the time, I was told that this was an extraordinary meeting where it was simply the essence and the main motive and the aim that it could not change the order of the proposed meeting. Yet, yesterday, item 1 was interrupted and ranked beyond point 3. It is a matter which does not fall under the Rules of Procedure, it is a custom, let us say, an internal logic of the Rules of Procedure. But there's been another violation of some practice. Similarly, there has been a breach of the procedures used that we have voted on a shortening of speaking time at a time when the debate has not yet been opened. Again, this is not explicitly against the Rules of Procedure. So I'm just pointing it out, I don't want to make any of it. Maybe we can talk it out of the way, so we don't hold up the doctor's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u63	So now it is registered with Mr Babiš's factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u64	I would like to respond to Minister Stanjura. I don't want to have this debate here, if you find the time for me, I'd be happy to visit. Of course, I'm not able to answer now. But I'll give it to you, the 550 billion, what expenses it is, what resources it is. Of course I'll give it to you. I'm just still fascinated by the fact that you keep saying you don't have the money. Now, why don't you explain to me where you got $8.5 billion to buy gas for the state's material reserves. It's like a miracle. [[12.50 hours]] You kept saying, "I don't have any money. I don't have any money. You took the pensions and young people's 1.8 billion crowns of ridiculous, 0.1 percent of the entire budget. And all of a sudden, you got $8.5 billion. But I would never give it to Síkel if I were you, because we recommended you because you lost money, cash flow. You were supposed to take Síkel: Hey, do it like Germany. That means, tell CEZa, RWE, Innogy, buy 2.5,000 terawatt hours for 8.5 billion, and then if you sell it and there's a big difference, we, like the state, will eventually pay you back for the loss. And you're a miracle minister, so I was a minister too, so... congratulations on suddenly winning $8.5 billion when you keep saying you don't have any money. You got 'em, now they're gonna go down. I wonder what this Švagr-in-law's gonna do to the gas he's gonna sell it to. Sure, my Švagr-in-law made a contest. You have CEZ. [[Time. Your two minutes are up.]] So I'll be glad if we can do this conversation somewhere else, and I don't want to keep it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u65	I'm really gonna ask you to keep the time limit for two minutes. Now he's reporting with the de facto first Minister Stanjura, then I see another de facto, please, you have -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u66	I'll be happy to get those numbers, and then I'll be able to answer the question of how much it'll be in the next few years. If I don't know what this number is made of, I understand, we don't have to say it right now. I will just remind you that on 4 March 2020, Mr Babiš called on the government to buy gas into tangible state reserves. If it's in the state's material reserves, then who's the owner? Stop. That can be deduced from the title. State material reserves. If we had done it that day, as you repeatedly and stubbornly told us, we would have paid 160 euros a unit price. We didn't do it, we decided yesterday, we kept a cool head, and we bought it cheaper. The second thing you're talking about is something that's already been treated in crisis measures. But the main thing is to say to Members: I don't have any money to give to the minister or give to the minister. That's what we completely miss about the Ministry of Finance's task and the Minister of Finance's. Of course, such matters are decided by the government. It's not my money that I'm graciously or happily or unwilling to send to someone. And the 8.5 billion, that's easy. You've seen the budgetary arrangements. Because we're making a novel, I've used resources that I know I won't need until September. There are no additional resources. The resources will then have to cover themselves within the framework of the amendment. I'm telling everyone. And you know it as well as I do, when the budget is approved and you have 12 months' money, you don't get it in the first semester. So if you read the government's resolution, that's where the budget measure is. It's very simple, I took it from those chapters where I knew I could afford to take it from those chapters by the end of September. It's perfectly logical that we're going to return them afterwards. It's not a miracle or a spell. That's a normal budget measure, by the way -- if memory doesn't deceive me, last year your government and finances did 1,661. [[Time.]] Just a statement, no criticism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u67	Minister, your time is up for a point of fact. Vice-President Bartošek is now registered, also with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u68	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I discussed the situation with Radek Vondráček, thank you through you. We have explained the whole situation this morning, and we have concluded that the debate has been opened and that all the proposals that have been made have been in line. In any case, next time it is necessary to use the fact that it is explicitly to say that a general debate is being opened. The steering meeting said 'we are in a general debate', so it simply said that the general debate is ongoing. Thank you for your kindness. We've explained it. We can continue the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u69	Thank you, too. It now comes to the priority right of President Schillerová. Then there's the announced recess for the grémia meeting after this performance. So I am calling it on the other Members. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u70	The Minister is there. Thank you. For me, it'll be more about numbers. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Because there's been a lot going on here, so I'm gonna try to focus more on what's bothering me. I will leave out my various political views, although you may all know from my statements, which has been said repeatedly, that I consider this amendment to be extremely irresponsible. And indeed, even in view of the situation in which we are now... I didn't like her when she first started talking about her. And now, in line with the refugee crisis and more than 300,000 state insured people, of course, it also increases my sense of irrationality. But now let me say something financially. I'm not a doctor, I'm a lawyer, former finance secretary, that's well-known. So I'm gonna focus and stick to my hoof. When the ANO movement took over the Health Department in December 2017, I dare say it was almost a clinical death. The resort was underfunded. And I, believe me, am not just talking to the minister or the government, I've been over the past four years, and not just the health sector, I've circled a whole series of hospitals, or I've talked to a lot of paramedics with regard to the covid situation and the constant pressure on money, especially from the health sector. And I'm not talking about that right now, please, just about the state insurance payments...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u71	Yes. I'm gonna ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep their conversations quiet, move them into the lobby, so it's quiet here for your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm gonna try really hard to be material. So I'm not just talking about the state insurance payments, and apparently that's what the Prime Minister was talking about, but I'll leave that to him to tell the Minister myself, but I'm talking about having to raise the salaries of health personnel, doctors, nurses. I'm talking about hospital equipment, it never ends, it never ends, but I'm sure a lot of work has been done. About the financial situation of hospitals, we've been delaying state hospitals. That was $6.5 billion, they'd just be in it tonight. I hope they can at least use it and stay in the black. But, of course, I am also talking about the state of public higher education in relation to health. But the Prime Minister already talked about it, so I'm not gonna repeat what he said about it, what he said before, so I don't repeat it. But the situation was really very difficult, because there were de facto some systemic steps or reforms that no one has been concerned about for years. And I'm not saying we solved it. No way. It never ends. That's a huge well of trouble, and if you have a little insight into it, I'm sure you'll be right. No one was concerned with the problem, perhaps the President said it, I was at the seminar at the EET, but no one was concerned with the problem that a large part of our high-quality health professionals go to the surrounding countries every year, that we will educate them here, give them free education, they will go to Germany, to Austria, we are missing here. It turned out in the covide, when suddenly we were considering pulling... There was such a thought when the staff was missing that the sisters would withdraw from Austria. But then we heard: do not do this, the Slovák will withdraw us Slovak sisters or doctors. It's a real system problem, and we've been trying to figure things out. My colleague Adam Vojtěch, I remember him with great respect, you can criticize him in the mountains, downstairs, no one has gone through a hell like him. Nobody. And I have to say, he's really been trying to do a lot of system things that have been postponed for years. And that some of them didn't make it, I won't make excuses, but it was thanks, thanks to the covid. And yet basically, regardless of that, and he still couldn't have known that the covid crisis was knocking on the door at the time, yet he prepared for me to assess modern history, so health care for the onset of this crisis much better than any previous minister who had ever succeeded there. Of course, our government doesn't. [[13.00 hours]] In 2017, when we took over this resort, the payment for the state insured was something above CZK 900, it was specifically CZK 920. We raised it - 969, 1 018, 1 057, 1 767 and finally for 2022 1 967. These are well-known facts arising from the budget, by law. And the increase in these payments, and I was in charge of it, he didn't politely say it here, but we had a big argument, and I dare say that even the great work quarrels between you and me. But then I didn't just give up on the debate with the Minister or the Deputys, but I really talked to the insurance companies, I talked to the hospital directors, I let the experts at the Ministry of Finance analyze, because they often had big eyes, they said for investments, then it turned out that they might not be able to invest. So I really did the best I could. And I say responsibly that the money was necessary due to the underfunded state of Czech health. Prices of health care, medicine, technology were rising. We had to raise salaries. I mean, we applauded them all, thanked them for the covid, for the horror they went through, and then, of course, we had to reward them for that. I mean, these people were there from morning to night, they often risked their health, they weren't vaccinated, they were setting up... You know how sick it was, how we've been dealing with it all the time. In the end, you watched it too, although from opposition benches. And we wanted to ensure them not only a dignified life corresponding to the indisputable complexity of the profession of doctors and nurses, but also other service devices, in particular to prevent the mass departure of high-quality labour from the health sector abroad. The proximity of Germany is an advantage to us from which the Czech industry and the economy benefit, but unfortunately in the field of health, this is not the case. I'm from South Moravia - Austria's same problem, the same thing. The proximity of one of Europe's most developed economies will continue to create competition for Czech hospitals and health facilities, and it is clear that Czech health professionals will always be better rated in Germany, but the difference must not be awkward. We need to adequately evaluate our doctors and doctors. Maybe I'll ask the minister, he won't listen to me right now, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u73	I'm sorry, I'm really gonna try to make peace here. As empty as this room is, it's amazing what noise we're able to make here. I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down and let the President continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't want to test anyone here, but have you looked, Mr. Secretary, or anyone else, at what is the average salary of a doctor in a state hospital or a nurse today? [[Member Brazdil - a note from the diaper that there is no minister.]] He's here, he's here. I'm looking at him. You don't have to... I'm watching him. That means even how much it's increased, that I already think it's a dignified salary. Yes, you might argue that it is also with the service, I often hear the argument. But it can't be done... I've often heard it from the staff when I used to talk to them... [[Mr Svoboda:]] I am not saying that you do not, Mr Docent, through Madam President. But I think it's today, it's over 100,000, it's the average salary, and it's okay, I'm sure it's over 60 for the nurses, of course it's average, so I'm not saying that everyone, someone takes more, someone takes less, but I think it's already done, and after good, because it's one of the most demanding jobs. And now to the health insurance companies. Since we took over the Health Department, the total balances of health insurance companies after the period of decline and stagnation, I've had those graphs here many times, started to increase up to twice the value they had when we took over the resort. The total payment for state insured persons in 2021 was nearly 130 billion, because it was necessary - we increased the payment twice there, you know - to solve the complicated medical situation of the global pandemic. We often didn't know... The vaccine prices were changing. We had to prefinance it from the state budget. The delay when the insurance companies return it to you, I'm sure you already know that, so they're running late. It was estimated. We were once accused of ordering a few of them, and then they blamed us for ordering too much. He's every general after the battle. It wasn't easy to fight an invisible enemy either. I'm not making excuses, it was a public service, and we did what we could, just like you're doing in this difficult crisis, which is also difficult. So it's just a brief comparison. In 2016, CZK 62,3 billion went to the state insurance company. In 2017, it was just a little bit more, 65.3. In 2018, it was 68.4 billion. In 2019 - 71.8. In 2020 - 97.3. In 2021 - 127. And we planned for 2022, and actually, the legislation has changed here, 138.9 billion. So we systematically increased the payments for state insured people to settle the debt in the system that has been created here for the years preceding the governments. The previous governments, 2007 to 2017, increased the payment for state insured persons by less than 18 billion in 10 years. 18 billion in ten years. And then let's say whether it was underfunded or not. We increased the state insurance payments by almost CZK 75 billion. Yes, there was a covid. We were under pressure from the covid, that's for sure. But I think the discrepancy is obvious. On March 1, 2020, I will never forget, at 16 p.m., the first cases of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus were confirmed in the Czech Republic. And at this moment, our government was in a completely different situation than anyone could have imagined in the darkest dreams. Like I said, we had to face this invisible enemy, get together, learn to function, and so on. It was just a tough time. I don't want to mention him here anymore. But I'm saying again, without the constant efforts of the paramedics, the losses would be far, far higher. So our top health care, and we have to keep reminding ourselves of that, our top health care actually got us out of the lab. And we were always aware of that as a former cabinet, fully aware. And raising payments for state insurance workers just reflected the financial intensity of health care and responded to current developments. And it was entirely justified as a result of the current situation. We had only one goal - to ensure high quality health care and to protect the health of Czech citizens. Every citizen must be free of charge and available to him. And we didn't want to jeopardize the fact that we didn't have enough money when we had this high cost for the covid. The logic of increasing the payment for state insured people as a result of inflation, which is, as experts call it, volatile, we have said here over the last days and weeks these figures several times, the rise in inflation, is logical. If our prices are going up like this, it's projecting everywhere. Drug prices are rising. They're increasing the cost of operations. There'll be higher costs - paramedics and so on, we can talk about this here for hours. That means it has an effect on it, and of course it has a clear reason. And it turns out that, of course, we couldn't have known that the time would come, that we would have more than 300,000 other state insured people here, I mean now refugees, which of course we have to take care of, we don't really question that. But it's another expense, another expense. And the money will be needed. So I don't understand, and this step, I repeat again, I don't think it's logical at all. [[13.10 hours]] I was talking about inflation on the revenue side, and I don't want to do that again, and on the expenditure side, of course -- beware, let's not forget, everyone is dealing with this, and I understand that there is a crisis in energy, there is a crisis in fuel, we are growing food prices, all goods, services, we have a refugee crisis here. But let's not forget, and I'll just be happy not to, but the Minister of Health made me unsure when he did this to me last week, that it's not entirely certain, we're probably not entirely sure that the pandemic is behind us. I'll just be glad if that's the case. But we should always be prepared after the experience, and I'm saying this with the executive experience I'm carrying, that unfortunately the epidemiological situation could get worse. When we were discussing the state budget for 2022, which had already been submitted by the government of Petr Fiala, I obviously had a lot of reservations, but I considered the craziest cut here to be the 14 billion to be state insured. Overall, there was a reduction in spending by 20 billion, but the state insured should have covered 14 billion. And this is the legislation that was missing at the time, and I pointed out, look out, we can't save on health care. In fact, the payment for state insured persons concerns old-age pensioners, mothers or parents on maternity leave, parents', carefree children. Now, of course, the refugees we have to take care of. And I thought that even then and now all the more so as to gamble with a fragile health situation and with the health of the citizens. All citizens who are now in the territory of the Czech Republic, regardless of where they came from or whether they were born here. President Babiš here was talking about all the problems, because he was always most interested in health care. I guess it was because of the covid. So I'm not gonna talk about these rare diseases anymore, I'm not a doctor, I'm gonna leave it to my colleagues who are experts, and they've been working on it their whole lives. But it's true - we put the money in the other pocket from one pocket. The state will send it to the health insurance companies, now he'll take it again, so he might have to return it. And I want to point out that the planned revenues of the public health insurance system from the state budget account for about one third of the planned revenues in 2022, while the public health insurance system was managed in 2021, I had, the estimates were around 13 billion deficits, but the result was even worse. So the fact that there are reserves is, of course, a good thing, because we have increased this payment for state insured people three times in a row, but I'm afraid that this intervention will lead to it, and in the end, the prediction is that the system is losing. The most recent quantifications count with a deficit of almost 20 billion, but the quantifications that I saw did not count, have not yet reflected the refugee wave, which, of course, occurred after the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. So a close link to the system's negative balance is also due to the development of financial reserves in a system where a significant year-on-year decline is planned, so it is almost likely that these reserves will be exhausted. And according to experts, up to three health insurance companies are currently at risk. The association of health insurance companies declares that they simply cannot afford other unplanned expenditures and, on the contrary, they will have to make the most of their savings in the upcoming conditions. So I don't know about you, fellow Members, but my opinion of the maximum savings in terms of health care doesn't sound good at all. I quote further: It will be necessary to examine the feedback efficiency and benefits for the patient in some extremely expensive medicines. Which, from my point of view, is totally unacceptable. From my point of view, hospitals get into an indefensible situation. So the question is, where does it lead? Charging? Medical limitations? It's just things I'm really worried about. And after a number of problems that are solved and which belong to experts, such as the level of vaccination within new state insured people, the screening of their disease. And, of course, we must give them - now I am talking about refugees - the necessary care. I have one question for the Minister, and I'm done. I would very much welcome it being said in one of his speeches, and I would actually consider it a very positive gesture if we could be involved as opposition in the preparation. I understand that an amendment is being prepared, or an amendment to this proposal by the parties to valorisation, so that there is some certainty, regardless of who will ever be with the government, because governments are coming and going to ensure some valorisation, some valorisation mechanism to regularly increase payment for state insured persons. I would like to ask if I can, Minister, I have recorded this material that was in the public eKLEP government, as part of the convergence programme prepared by the Ministry of Finance, this is the budgetary strategy of the public institutions sector for the years 2023 to 2025. [[Stanjuro]] I was peeking, I guess it was approved because it was classified - it wasn't, and I think it was downloaded, I feel. And I have one question. So when it's downloaded, it can still be modified, of course, which is obvious. And I have one single question: there are individual, among other things there are a lot of numbers, but there's also a payment of the state budget on the state insurance company, yes on the side, so I have six, it's a mistake, okay, so if you say it here, I'm gonna love it. There's 2021, I know that, 1 767, 2022 is already covered by what you want to take there, by the 200 crowns, for us it was 1 967, you want to return it to 1 767, I understand that. That is the subject of this law. But 2023, 2024 and 2025 is the amount, and that scared me very much, 1,567! So that would actually be even less than 2021. If it's a mistake, maybe it was a reason for the withdrawal, maybe there's more of those mistakes, I'll wait until the final one approved by the government. Well, if that's what you'd like to comment on. And of course, I would very much welcome it if we could be invited, and our experts who are in it, and if we could have a chance to comment on some kind of valorisation mechanism, and when it could be part of this law, because that is something that would certainly ensure the future, if set well, to ensure the future of public health insurance and, in fact, to all the people who draw from it and who actually require medical care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u75	As I have already announced, and in accordance with the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, to move forward in this meeting and find solutions to the current situation, I am calling for a meeting of the Gremia. So I'm going to ask all the members of the grémia to come to the conference room, and the break I'm going to put out for them is 22 minutes, and better time, I think it'll be enough 22 minutes for this meeting, which means 13.40, which means we'll meet in room 120. Thank you to all the members of the grémia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I cordially greet you after the consultation of the Gremia, and at the same time I announce that there has been an agreement that it will be suspended for one more hour at the ANO and SPD meeting, so I am interrupting this meeting by 15.00, and we will meet again here at three o'clock. And I'll ask for indulgence, I know that many of you have arrived here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to introduce you to the agreement of today's Gremia, with the agreement of all the Members' Clubs, before we continue the adjourned meeting - I ask for peace of mind. We propose the following procedure, namely to continue the suspended 20th meeting by 6:00 p.m., by discussing point 2, this is about insurance for public health insurance, at first reading. The 22nd meeting will be held at 18 o'clock tonight, and after this 22nd meeting we would continue the suspended 20th meeting. With the launch of the 21st meeting tomorrow, i.e. Thursday the 5th, at 8 a.m. In agreement with the various club presidents, we must now decide on the following procedural proposals and we will vote on two votes. The first, because of the possible continuation of the 20th meeting, this meeting, after 19 and 21 o'clock, is to be voted on the territorial and procedural negotiations on draft laws after these hours at this meeting. It's in accordance with Section 53. The second vote would be to set aside other hours for the House's meeting, and that is for tomorrow, when we should agree that tomorrow the Chamber of Deputies will be negotiating at 8 o'clock. So now we have these two votes ahead of us. So I'm gonna check you out now. I beg you all to come forward. So I will repeat once again for those who came later that at this point we will vote that, because of the possible continuation of the 20th meeting, this is the one that is going on now, after 19 and 21 o'clock, it is necessary to vote on the territorial and procedural negotiations on the draft laws after these hours at this meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote 11 registered 137, for 135, against no one. Result: accepted. And there is one more vote to be taken, namely to set aside other hours for the House's meeting, which is why I propose this resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees that the Chamber of Deputies will negotiate on Thursday, tomorrow, 5 May, at 8 o'clock.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote 12 registered 143, for 142,. [[against no one]] Result: accepted. So, at this point, we can continue the general debate. We are at the government's proposal to amend Act 592 on insurance against public health insurance. We are in a general debate. No one's applying for priority rights, so the next one is Mr... I see... Mr. MP, with priority rights? Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u78	Yes, thank you. I have allowed myself to sign up with the priority right with the opinion of the ANO 2011 club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u79	I'm gonna interrupt you for a second... You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador. It's the club's position. Mr. Ambassador, with the club's opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u80	I thank my colleague Adamc, through the President, for his permission. And I would now like to comment on the present House of the Press in favour of YES 2011 in favour of reducing the payments for state insured persons. As the press is currently available, we cannot agree with it and we cannot support it. And we cannot support it because it is a reduction in the payments for state insured persons in total by CZK 14 billion or CZK 400 per month per state insured person. The problem is that last year our government adopted Government Resolution No. 252/2021 Coll. just increase payment for state insured persons, from the assessment base 14 570 CZK payment for state insured persons 1 967 CZK. This payment was increased by 200 crowns. I note that this increase occurred three times during the reign of Andrej Babiš, with gradual steps. And the reason was pretty clear. The reason was the ongoing covid crisis, the increased cost of health insurance companies - I will still talk about it - especially in relation to testing, vaccination and so on. By the way, when I mentioned these additional costs, they accounted for CZK 17 billion for testing, it was about 10 billion for vaccinations, and it was about 7 billion for outages of health care facilities for their coverage, and it totaled CZK 40 billion for additional costs. So there was a real need to add, and the addition was significant. [[15.40 hours]] I am going to go back historically to the fact that this system of payment for state insured persons was created in 1993, and I would like to point out that it was then from the measuring base of CZK 1,694 and the payments amounted to CZK 229. Then for quite a long time nothing major jumping Sunday until 2018, when the payment at the beginning of the government of Andrej Babiš rose to CZK 969 for the state insured. And I note, put it in session, it was roughly 740 crowns more against 1993, in other words in 25 years. And over the last four years, there has been an increase up to the mentioned 1 967 crowns a month, which is without two crowns by a thousand crowns. Here I want to declare it, yes, it was caused by external influences, it was caused by a covid crisis, but on the other hand, there has been a huge strengthening of health care. And I think that colleagues who have been on the Health Committee in the past period can certainly confirm that, and they know that the past government has certainly not spared on health care. What did it show, by the way? This was reflected in the fact that the previous government, which started health insurance at about 220 billion a year, ended up at 410 billion. So it's a huge difference. All I'm saying here is that the numbers were discussed here, in one of the posts it was said 530, 550 billion expected in 2022, but these are payments, not only health insurance, but also the contributions of individual citizens to health care, contributions of founders, municipalities, regions and so on. So these are different numbers. If we go after the complex numbers, that's from 330 billion to CZK 535 billion. These things need to be remembered. And we must also remind ourselves that, and colleagues of doctors know that for a long time, for example, President Kubek, President of the Czech Medical Chamber, chased ministers in line for the fact that in the Czech Republic the best possible care is to be provided comparable to those of the advanced states west of us, and yet we put 7 percent of GDP on it. During the last four years, there has been a significant increase in Andrej Babiš's government, and today we are at 10 percent of GDP spending on health and we have become among the better half of the European Union countries. So it's just for drawing up what we put in the health service. And now we're supposed to monitor the citizens and our constituents in some way explain to you that any of this money will take CZK 14 billion? I understand that insurance companies had quite a lot of money in their funds, but ask yourself how the money got there. It's the money that got there during the reign of Andrej Babiš, and it's the money that got there, and it should stay there especially if things get complicated. But we're all pretending that there's no problem today. I still see two more problems. That one problem is still an ongoing covid. The experts will tell you, and now I really think the experts who are concerned about this are surprised that in the past waves the covid basically dropped to zero in the meantime, but he hasn't dropped to zero now, we still have 600 patients in hospitals, 50 patients in intensive care units, and still 10, 15 people in covid are dying. Yes, they are those people of particular higher age categories, and as we say, polymorbid, or those with more diagnosis, which we have not received for some reason. I don't think I'm gonna remind you of that today, it's the rest of both governments, and it's ours, but unfortunately your government, which hasn't been able to finish this in almost half a year. And we still see it as a big problem for a possible fall wave. And there is really still a threat that among 300,000 of the endangered groups, as I have listed here, or old and with more serious diseases, there is a risk that the virus can make some kind of mess. We will definitely have vaccinations, or there will be expenditures on vaccines, and if there is a wave, we can wait again in at least hundreds of millions of costs of testing. It's over, and here I'd be afraid to say it's never gonna happen again, even if I really wanted it. And then there's this second effect that came up that we didn't count on, or the second effect, and that's migration. Assaulting the Russian Federation meant resorting to us by those in need, and we took them in. We took them with everything and took them quite generously and we are happy for that. We agreed this way here in the House. However, they have become full-time insured persons with the status of actually a state insured person until some of them become employed and change in that category. However, they are full-fledged state insured persons entitled to care in full scope. And so far, and I'm trying to track those numbers on a regional scale, I know that they don't abuse health care, they're not hospitalized on a larger mass scale, and only those Ukrajinec units are based on intensive care units. So we really don't get negative health care costs these days. So here you agree to make sure you do, but when I hear here in the early hours of the morning, for example, and that's such a cliché, and you use it a lot, and it's a cliché that doesn't touch anyone. So if 300,000 new insured people come and I have an existing number of doctors, nurses, ambulances, it will surely touch us and we must count on it. If anyone wants to help, they have to count on the help to touch them in some way. And he touches people in waiting periods or times. Of course, it is probably the most serious problem for children pediatricians, for example, because children are around 2,000, Ukrainian children are around 120,000, so there is a simple conversion, even if they were to be divided completely regularly, so it is about 60 children per practice, and this is, of course, a big problem with overloading current children's doctors, and with their age structure. It's better with a little practice, I guess it's gonna be a problem with dental care. But let's not just talk about this. Of course, Ukrajinec are also entitled to the performances that our people may be waiting for, and if it turns out that the state of the Ukrajinec is even worse for the long-term performances that are waiting for, they will, of course, get into major joint surgery and so on. It's okay, but we can't totally paint it pink so it doesn't touch us. And I'd like the current government not to say those things and talk to people straight. The same is the question, but in order not to be interrupted here subsequently, it concerns, for example, kindergartens, schools, etc. We have to say it the way it is. The same is true of the security issue where I am on the committee, and we often discuss the security issues with Minister Rakušan. So they are, they will, we need to be ready for them and we need to know how to deal with them. As regards what happened in 2020 and 2021 and why it is possible to believe that the right to care and finance for such care can increase, and why it would be good not to exceed those insurance funds is the fact that certain performances have been significantly reduced. Prevention has been reduced, preventive colonoscopy tests have been limited, other oncological prevention has been reduced, planned operations have been reduced. And now the hospitals are catching up, they want to catch up, they're working at a hundred percent and it's working, it's working. But what does it take? Enough funding. And we've already picked up here in the past, and I remember a time when health care facilities have been waiting for a few months to be reimbursed, and that's the problem, because really with ordering materials, with the ability to pay quality people and so on it's quite a big problem and we wouldn't want to get into it. [[15.50 hours]] That's why I believe it's better to leave money in the insurance funds. I am willing to discuss this with Minister Stanjura, of course, and he himself offered it in the course of his morning performances here that we should discuss how much it should be. Is this supposed to be 5 percent of those insurance companies' turnover? That would actually be funds filled with, like, 20 billion. Or is it 10 percent? Forty billion. 15 percent and so on. So it's a question of how much it's supposed to be. But those funds should definitely not be empty. And now I will turn to you again as a five-calice government. I'm so cross-cutting because of the health care safety and the overall view of how you do it, I'm watching it with a whole lot of fun. I understand. You want to keep your pre-election promises, and you want to have the state's most balanced budget, and certainly at least, because that cannot be achieved at the moment, but you certainly want to not increase the state debt. I understand. But, folks, that's not gonna happen at all costs. And you certainly can't do that to the health department. In fact, you saved CZK 20 billion from the total of the 80 billion savings that you presented. That's a quarter of what you saved. I find it incredible. At the time, when we don't have a covid solved, when we have Ukrajinec here, when we have a threat of covid coming back, and so on. I mean, there's a threat that we're gonna need to release more billions! So at this point, you will sort of cut off Minister Válek - he was just here. So I guess I take it that way, it's like right now at the time of the war, the same government decided to take a few billion or a few tens of billions, like the Army of the Czech Republic, which would seem completely pointless to me, but I kind of see the parallel here. And there's a problem, too - there's a conflict. We in some way help Ukraine and the military, but above all, we need to increase our defenses. And I am not aware that Mrs Černochová, through the President, has taken such a proposal. So it seemed to me that it fell to the health department, that the savings were somehow offered there, so why not touch them? And when I say it's a proven scenario, when I see there's money somewhere, let's pull it out right now, that's what we're gonna do with our election program. Someone's gonna love us for this, and whoever understands, they're not gonna like us. The same basically happens now in the context of the migration crisis, when we want you to have a migration plan. We want to know what the impacts will be on individual regions, what it will look like in individual schools, what it will take to finance, what it will mean for individual hospitals, how it will be with accommodation. And all of this is related to this -- by the way, we're still in an emergency condition that you won until May 28th. And it's gonna be interesting when we keep talking about it, how it needs to be and what it needs to be for. So at the moment everything is being bailed out by the regions and municipalities. Everything is paid for by the regions and municipalities. And those regions and municipalities have this for one reason that they have quite a lot of money from the budgetary determination of taxes over the past period. You've got it mapped out, you know, and that's why you're letting them pay, and you're not gonna grieve, and then we're gonna send you something. So that's the second segment. And the third is all of us citizens. Because your "we'll consult and tell you Wednesday" measure narrowed down to "we'll consult, Wednesday is no longer, and maybe we'll send a signal." And that's basically the end of it. The flat measures in terms of energy, fuel, and similar 24 states in Europe are somehow being addressed, and we are approaching the brave decision to save the crown of 50 somewhere, which these people will not even feel. So I just want to say, and we know that from the past period, when things were going well, things were going well relatively economically, we didn't have the problems, let's talk about the ancestors' times, so people saved up. People have the money. And why wouldn't these people sponsor us? I mean, at these high energy and fuel prices, but we're also gonna pick out a straight dépéka, so they're giving us the money back. And I think people are starting to realize all this stuff I'm saying here. It would be good for you to realize that, too, and try to play something for these people too. If I'm talking about health care, it looks like it's all covered in sunshine, that there's a lot of money. But I have insight into regional health care, and I know it's not all that pink. And they put quite a lot of money in the county hospitals. And if we take 14 billion here, I'm not saying that the system is going to crumble in any way, but the threat that hospitals are going to sink, now I'm not talking about hospitals set up by the Ministry, but regional hospitals, that's pretty real. And we know how to deal with it in those parts. It cuts these hospitals in the form of a so-called public service obligation, which is a hobby, how to send money to that hospital when it's missing, and it's for such things as first-aid medical services, for some less attractive fields such as interna or the fields that don't pay in quotes through the insurance company so well, so the public service obligation will get the money there. And we, it seems to me, are counting on the fact that if it's not from the health insurance, the times have already been here, or when the payments are delayed, the county will, of course, pay for it, because they want to take care of their hospitals. Only yesterday, or this morning, in the course of the negotiations, when we sharply opposed the reduction of payments for state insured persons, and SPD colleagues did the same, and it has resonated for a week, so Mr Stanjura came up with this, and I must honestly say that he said at the beginning of the meeting that he would like to talk about a vending machine in terms of regular valorisation so that we could depolize it so that we could actually send adequate money to the health service for state insured people. I totally understand that proportionality. But how do we start? We're starting by cutting it 400 kroner to make a good lower base, and we're going to build on it somehow. I would like to see what Minister Stanjura has promised to do here and invite us as opposition to these negotiations, because we would really like to be there, and we would like to guarantee our citizens that it will be a system that is right, a little objective, depolitical, but above all provide sufficient funding for the health sector. I would also mention that we were able to raise health workers' salaries by 6 percent in the framework, despite the covid crisis, and we were able to pay the covido rewards of CZK 12 billion at the time. That's the money I was missing from the $40 billion, as I said there was an extraordinary cost of covid. So the health service was really going well. And now I'd like to say a few words about who those state insured people are and what kind of care they're taking. And I'd like to compare it with what kind of funding for those state insured people flows into health insurance and what kind of funds flow to other citizens. Thus, with roughly 40 000 gross wages at 13.5% health insurance contributions, it is approximately CZK 5,300, 5,400 per employee. Employee - this amount. The self-employed person has a contribution of 2 617, or as a basis for this year, and OBZP then 2 187. And besides, there's a category of state insured people who are relatively problematic and relatively expensive in their composition. And these insured people, per head, there's a levy of 1 967 now and after your planned cosmetic treatment, or reduction of CZK 1,567. [[16.00 hours]] And I'll tell you the song. There's 6 million of those state insured people. They're the ones who are unprofitable or not profitable. For example, there are children under the age of 15. That's about 1,730,000 for your information. There are children over the age of 15, about 600,000. There's a large group of pensioners - 2,845,000. These groups that I told you, and I'm not gonna talk about minority people like retirement age, disability at grade 3 and all that, I'm gonna leave them aside, they're units of thousands. But they're people with almost 4 million people whose health care is extremely expensive, and we give it the least! We're putting a little bit of change on her now after your adjustment. It's not enough, it's not enough. Our system, of course, is solidarity. We're counting on those who give, the employees, the 5,400, so they're compatible with the others. But you as a right-wing government that would like to reduce the tax burden, I'm just going to say, for example, I'm not saying that it should be, but it could be, if we were half a percentage point, or maybe you suggested lowering the "health tax" from 13.5% to 13 percent, so you would basically get exactly the same number and the same effect. It's just about the numbers as it should or shouldn't be. But definitely from the point of view of state insured people, those amounts should be brought closer to the others. So the pressure to raise the payment for a state insured person is completely legitimate. Then I have some notes on the health department that looked like it was when we handed it over to you. And the health department, I'm not gonna tire you out because it's all over the place, but I'm just gonna repeat the headlines and comment on them. We put record volume in health care. It is from those 322 billion to over 530 billion crowns over four years. The long-term criticised low GDP expenditure ratio has risen from 7.8 percent over four years to 10 percent. Again, we have reached a better half of the European Union. The fact that many buildings have started, that money has been brought in from the European Union, has ensured transparency for the acquisition of instruments, so I will not talk about it here anymore, because it has been mentioned here. Some hospitals were in debt. I'm not going to name them here again. More importantly, this is an increase in salaries, where, in fact, against 2013 there was almost twice the salary increase for nurses and doctors from 58,000 to about 101,000. Of course, everything presented with services, overtime and the like is to be admitted. However, doctors today have 2.7 times the average salary in the Republic. We tried to do something about health care, and we spent money on getting students from both high schools, so the number of medical faculty students expanded. It's a long run, but it's all happening. Electronization of health - amazing things in itself. I have a very good experience with eRecipe, and I believe that the doctors sitting here, although I don't think the ODS colleagues have supported it for a long time, so that today they appreciate it and admit that, for example, in the covido wave, it helped us in the primary care. Medications and medical supplies, next chapter. The availability of innovative medicines has increased and medicines are made available to patients for rare diseases. Here I want to say it again, and I say it again that we have to talk about it, it's true, and you're gonna want to do it that way. At present, however, there has been information in the press that 15 children with cystic fibrosis have been transported to the Czech Republic, a rare disease whose treatment is expensive. And, of course, we're putting the money into it. I'm just saying this because we're gonna need a lot of that money. And remember that there are medicines, especially biological treatments, treatment of oncological diseases, where for example for 16 people - I will not read you the names of these drugs - it costs almost one billion crowns per year. We've just moved so far away that we're treating these people. Unfortunately, I remember the time, and it was ugly, I was a young doctor when I started out, and a person who was 65+ or 55+ or diabetes, so maybe those people didn't get on dialysis or anything like that. So these things will never be here, and we have to do everything we can to get these people everything. I can't imagine telling anyone that next year we don't have those drugs for you. I just can't. And what's less painful and what could happen, of course, is that we're not going to put you in the quiet, even though I would have put you in the class last year, but I'm not going to put you in the class, because it's not... Of course, no one's gonna tell you completely hard, but you're gonna get a different, standard treatment, not that effective. These are just things that we shouldn't be working towards, and we should keep the health service at this level, like we have it. And that is why, from my point of view, it is necessary to hold around 10 percent of GDP, because assuming that the Republic is going to become economically confused, maintaining 10 percent of GDP alone means absolute financial growth in health care every year. I think that should do it. The fight against cancer has been widely introduced here by President Babiš, so I wouldn't interfere more there. I'd rather mention the reform of primary care. The reform of primary care is an absolutely fundamental matter, but it depends on human resources, on practitioners. I mentioned here the absolute lack of practical doctors for children, with adult practices it is not much better. However, the chance to condone and make health care more effective is to increase the competences of the very young practitioners and to increase the attractiveness of the field so that they want to know that they can decide something themselves, prescribe something themselves, participate actively in the treatment of the patient. I'm sure that primary care reform started working on that. The concept of urgent care. Urgent care, I'm very happy about that, because I'm originally a paramedic. I've been doing it for 30 years. I've been the head of an air ambulance for ten years. I was still in an ambulance or a helicopter, and to that I led the workplace and ended up in the position of director of the Hradec Králové Ambulance. I'm not gonna tire you out, beautiful memories. But I want to tell you that even within those ambulances or hospitals, when you get to the fact that you have some limited budget money, you can do a great job when it's organized optimally. And the ambulance for this is a beautiful field. All this time we dreamed of succeeding what we had in Hradec, in order to achieve it across the board, that you would have a fallout trauma center and a fallout emergency reception. These are two things that extremely increase the survival of patients in the ambulance, both trauma and non-injury. And now, within the previous government, we have succeeded in launching the concept of building 78 urgent revenues in all formerly district hospitals, mostly regional hospitals today. And it's a matter that's essential. It will help to solve the so-called first aid medical service. And again, it's connected to the financials. I mean, in this case, I think, for the most part, about 85 percent of the funds are coming from European grant funds and there is a relatively favorable contribution. Anyway, what's happening in construction today, what's planned for a billion, is now three years from now in two. There's a problem, but it's all managed to start. Mental health care. It was originally a megalomaniac plan to make 100 mental health centers, to deinstitutionalize psychiatric care, and that it would go on outpatiently in a favorable environment. But it's hard on the staff. So far, 30 of these CDS have been able to open up, and about that plan, if I have good information, it's reducing today and it's thinking about a target number of 70. But we'll see how the current government and the current administration of the Ministry stand up to it. [[16.10 hours]] Home care. Amazing thing. He's been helping us very much in health care. The payment has doubled or the funds we provide for home care have doubled from 1.8 to 3.8 billion crowns. And this home care helps both practices and hospitals in a significant way that many of the care can be arranged by middle medical staff and experienced nurses, and in some way it protects patients from unnecessary transfers to the hospital. Developing palliative spiritual care and so on. There'd be a lot of things here. And now I want to ask: If we want to, as I have suggested, somehow to condone the health sector from your point of view and use as much of the money as possible that is already in the health sector, I'm going to put together a few questions. Isn't it possible that we're getting back to some clearly defined surcharges in the future? If so, let's talk about it, but at this point, I just don't think it's on the agenda. Or isn't that a sign that health insurance companies should be reduced? Mr. Stanjura suggested that he could imagine that there might not be seven of them and that they might be, he didn't specify, but I understood that maybe three or four. I'm sure that's something to discuss. But I'd vote very cautiously here. And I know that some of these insurance companies aren't in perfect condition, and some of them might in a way touch the reduction of these payments. But then the worst thing that could be would be if those health insurance companies ended up uncoordinated by some kind of failure, violent merger and all that. So there's a lot to imagine, but I just want to say that there's a need to discuss it and to be open about it. And now I have a report from the insurance company, and I just want to say the number in percentage of how much care was increased, or the number of treated ones increased, or the amount of care payments increased last year. And I'll go by the groups. Stomatology plus 5.3 percent. The care of the practitioners, there is an increase in the value of the point by 18 percent. Number of uniquely treated patients by 11 percent. Gynecological care by 6 percent. Rehabilitation care by 6 percent. Diagnostic care, and this was given especially by testing in connection with covid, by an enormous 36%. Number of insured persons treated by 79 per cent. But that's a distorted number in the diagnostic care of the covid. The home care I've been praising here, an increase of 7.3 percent. Specialized outpatient by 9.5%. Nursing and rehabilitation in social services residential facilities by 16.5%. Why do I say that? This is the year-on-year increase for 2021. The increase can also be expected in 2022, and we have to have the money, or the insurance companies should have the resources to do so. So much for this data. I would mention center care by 16 percent up. And as I was telling you, the cure for spinal muscular atrophy has a small amount of patients, but an annual cost of 855 million. Breast cancer medicine, one specific, 134 million. The drugs listed here in hematooncology 275 million, 115 million, 90 million, 236 million. In totals, they're units of billions. And it's the drugs that those patients are set up to do, and we have to assume that the funds will still be there. And yet here I have a little bit, and that is the health state in the European Union, a material that I am quite pleased to read is that the Czech Republic has compared Europe to the 10 percent of GDP of health spending in the past year. It is almost the average of GDP per capita, such as the average of the European Union. The average of the European Union is 29 000, and here they show us 28 000 for the Czech Republic. We have the perfect unemployment numbers. Last year it was 2.6 %, the European Union was 7.1 %. It's interesting what they notice in health care and what compares there. And what we were amazing at, and I'd love it to last, so that's the level of poverty. According to these criteria, 10 percent fell to poverty in the Czech Republic last year and 16.5% within the European Union. There's a lot of data here, but I'm not gonna tire you out with it. I don't want to hold anything up. I just wish that by extending the economic policy as you are leading it, helping not to help specific people who need it, the level of poverty is not close to European standards, the European average. It is good if we remain better at something than Europe. Then I chose one more thing here, namely the expression of the President of the Association of Health Insurance Companies of the Czech Republic, engineer Ladislav Friedrich. Because I've been listening to Mr. Stanjura say that you've met, or your chosen representatives, with insurance representatives, and he didn't say that, but I understand that everything is almost covered with the sun and that it's wonderful. So the President of the Health Insurance Association writes in quite a fresh interview: Next year, the state will need to add 20 billion to health care. - So not to decrease, but rather to add. - Without increasing the state's payment of services, they will fall. They're gonna go down payment of services. Inquiry: Is it true that the Minister of Health has dealt with health insurance companies before the government has decided to freeze back payments for state insured persons? - Answer: There were two negotiations. At the first, the Minister indicated that such a consideration exists. The next week, the Minister of Finance came to the next meeting. It was the day before the government's meeting, and it was clear that they were telling us the decision rather than that it was a matter for discussion. However, the debate subsequently took place. We pointed out that many of our costs were caused by the decision of the Ministry of Health. We pointed out that health insurance companies wanted to pursue balanced management in the coming years, but unfortunately, we are pushing the deficit ahead. Has there been talk of payments for state insured persons for next year? The Minister didn't rule out any correction for 2023. We were going to make it a pretty definitive solution with automatic valorization. - So that's a good idea from the insurance companies. - We pointed out that it is not enough to ensure regular indexing, but at the same time to balance and saturate the deficit between expenditure and revenue. The conversation continues. It's quite interesting, I won't hold you up. I guess I could send a link. It takes money. That's what the health insurance representatives say. Another quote. It would be a mistake if we stopped investing in new technologies in health care due to the economic situation, says Pavel Hroboň, a fairly well-known name. Again: The economic situation will undoubtedly also be signed on the finances that health care will have at its disposal. According to Pavel Hroboň from Advance Healthcare Management Institute, however, it would be a mistake if we were to resign from investing in new cost-effective technologies. In fact, they can contribute to the long-term survival of the population, spending shorter time on sick leave, which will bring the funds invested back. And so on. So once again, let's go, let's invest, let's go. Next. The fight against cyberattacks in health needs money. Next article. I could name again here and here again the dangers of what could happen in health care, the number of attacks on health care, and actually the requests to put the necessary funds on these things. Yes. I'll go back to the insurance company. So we're back. Of course, it has everything to do with the insurance company. Because the medical facility... Professor, through Mr President, when you have someone employed, an IT expert or a few who are taking up cyber attacks there, what does that hospital pay for? [[Members of Bohuslav Svoboda.]] Does it work, from operating money? I'm just saying it's connected. Okay, but now I said fight cyberattacks. [[I haven't heard that one before.]] Okay, so we've explained, thank you very much. [[16.20 hours]] And the last one is a letter, and for me, it was such a psychic, and I got from one of my colleagues, and he's describing my lack of child psychic care. I think it's been here today, too. The psychiatrists had 80 percent of patients in ten years, currently psychiatric diagnosis can be made by up to 1.1 million people in the Czech Republic. In such a situation, Minister Válek says that there is no need for psychiatric care reform, and he does not need the Mental Health Council. And here are the descriptions of the individual articles, the individual cases, as the 80 percent increase in ten years, are missing mainly psychiatrists for children. I think there's a lot of these cases. At present, we must not forget that quite a lot of stigmatized people came here, even those refugees from Ukraine, that they also need to be addressed, so here I am just saying that there are other things that are going to cost us money again, we have to take care of it, and it is the strain for the mentioned psychiatric care that a small child, or his parents, is waiting for in the order of many weeks, several months. So that's my contribution to why we don't touch the money in the health sector, why leave enough resources in health insurance in the funds. And I'm saying it again, we can predict another covid wave, we can predict a possible increase in, like, migrants and so on, other problems. I am convinced that it is necessary to leave it to the insurance companies and that the 12 billion really aren't worth it. Or 14 saved billions. 'Cause they wouldn't disappear from those health insurance funds, that can be controlled. But to have some kind of reserve and not go completely to the marrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u81	Thank you, too. This was the position of Mr Jiří Mašek in the framework of the ANO Group of Deputies. I've taken over the meeting, but there are many excuses left for me, which have accumulated to my colleague, who was in charge of the meeting, so I apologize before I give the floor to the next speaker, I have to read all the apologies. First, she apologizes to President Alena Schillerová from 16.00 to 17.30 for work reasons. I also have an apology here for Mr Roman Bělor from 16.10 to 17.30 for working reasons, Aleš Dufek from 16 to 17 hours for health reasons, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek on 4 May for family reasons for the whole day, Minister of Justice Mr Pavel Blažek, today from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Pavel Růžička, between 18 and 23 o'clock. Furthermore, there is an apology from Mr Josef Kott, between 17 and 23.45 and from 17 to the end of the negotiations for family reasons, an apology from Robert Stržínek, today between 14 and 16 o'clock for work reasons. Then there is the apology of President Andrej Babiš for the rest of the day, for work reasons. This is what I think it is twice - Roman Bělor 17.30 to 20.30 for work reasons. And the last apology of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský, today from 13.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. So they were apologies, and now they're claiming the floor with the rapporteur's priority right, and that's Mr Tom Philipp, so I'm giving him the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I didn't want to perform, there's nothing I can do. The random passerby who would walk by this room, or he would happen to watch TV, which I cannot imagine in such beautiful weather as is now outside this room, might feel that all the problems of Czech health care have been solved over the past four years. We have heard here, through Madam President, dear Jirka, whom I otherwise appreciate very much that we have secured haemodialysis. Yes, we've secured it, but for many years now. What Jirka was talking about was a period of socialism that had some limits for 50 years, but there was no more dialysis. That's a long time ago, that's nothing that the last government would bring here right now. We've learned that this government has arranged eRecipe. Don't be mad at me, I've said it before when Mr. Babiš spoke. No, the erecept was not arranged by this government, the last government of Prime Minister Babiš. That was arranged by Prime Minister Sobotka's government. That's what we've been working on for four years, it's a very messed-up project that we've managed to get back to life in the last four years, and then it went on for Minister Ludvík. And Dr. Blahuta, who was running the SÚKL at the time, left his health on it. And I can tell, I was doing it with him at the time, I saw it. He circled the conference, convinced the practitioners. He hated it so much, the pharmacists didn't want it, everyone didn't want it. And today, of course, we see what a blessing it was, and at the time of the covid, we'd be out of hand without it. But Dr. Blahuta was dumped by the new government that came in that day. So just to remind ourselves of the conventions. A random observer might think Babišův's government did all this. Primary care reform. That's the next thing I hear, so the rest of my hair is on my head because it's just been talking about it for four years - and tell me where the reform is? Where did the last minister, Minister Vojtěch Adam, do some reform twice? Yes, some money may have been poured in there, but there are still few practices, practices for children and youth are still few. And we heard and we all know it, psychiatrists, pediatric psychiatrists, but also diabetics, and in some regions of rheumatologists like me. There's just not enough. Nothing about it has changed. All that's been done, and unfortunately, I have to say, it wasn't this government that started it, it joined the universities, so at this point, it's studying at universities, I mean, medical schools, 200 more students. But it wasn't a project that Minister Vojtěch would bring. It's a project that we started with Professor Dušek, and he didn't cancel, either glory for it, he went on, he made it. Of course, the glory falls on him, because he just didn't cancel it. There's talk of health care getting a massive financial injection. It looks a little bit like the government took some of their money and put the money into it. No, she put our money there. I'm glad she put them there. Of course, I'm a medic. I'm glad the resort got stronger, that the money's there. But it's not some government money, it's our money, all of you, it's our taxes. So not even from health insurance, because the health insurance remained the same, that's 13.5%. That's our tax money. Something else could have been done for it, but as a paramedic, as a citizen, and even a future patient, I'm glad the government made the decision to put the money there. But it's still our money, it's not the government's money she'd put in. And as for the urgent income, I am once again glad that the idea of urgent income has arisen here. It was created here because it is the sector of practitioners that does not work as optimally, 24 hours a day, and it is necessary to take care of those patients 24 hours a day. People don't get sick from 8:00 to 2:00, people just get sick all the time. And since it's still necessary to treat them all night after the second three o'clock, this is where the idea of urgent income came from. It's good, but it's a little virtual at the moment. I hope that we can get the money through the European funds, that the insurance companies will somehow finance it - they're already coded for it, so they're funding it. But again, it's not something that's been dragged down that's been done. It just took off, but it certainly hasn't gone anywhere in the last four years. Here's another one, I'd say, a bit of a thrill apple for the patients. [[16.30 hours]] And then it's interesting that we're essentially talking about oncology here as a big topic, which is obviously a big topic. Every fourth person dies of cancer. It's a big issue, we have to deal with the prevention. It's the only way to deal with this disease. Less is said about chronic diseases such as diabetes, such as coronary heart disease. These are other diseases that need to be addressed, and we are aware of this as health professionals and part of the current government, and we are going to work on it. But there's no mention of covid being here, and that covid was very out of control. We've been at the top of deaths for many months, in the number of patients per population. And it's like it's not. These mistakes I'm not saying, maybe if we were there, we would have made similar ones, no one at the time knew exactly how to behave. But then in the second wave, the third wave, the fourth wave, there was the performance, at least I as a simple doctor, the head of the clinic that took care of covido patients, where instead of rheumatology and rehabilitation, we took care of dying patients with covido, suffocating, so there was minimal support from the Ministry. Neither factual nor, I would say, scientific, or knowledge, nor any rules, nor any other support was there. Every time the wave was over, they said, "Horay, it's over, so it's probably over, it's not coming back." And, look, it came back. What could be done? We've been recruiting from rheumatology to the covideo department again, and we've been taking care of those patients again. And I can say that I've seen those nurses who weren't used to this kind of medicine, of course, because they're just used to different kinds of patients. I've seen those doctors, those seconds that did it with them, taking care of dying people all of a sudden, when they're trained for a completely different kind of work, without any support, I'd say, a broader nature that would be for them from the point of view of the ministry. We were giving support to each other, we were just looking in different anals to treat those patients as best we could, we asked colleagues of pneumologists and interns to treat those patients with us. Of course, every hospital has made some rules to make it as safe and as good as possible for the patients. However, nothing strange came from the top. That's what I'd like to say, so that random passers-by around the TV or around this hall doesn't feel like it's pink and something revolutionary has happened here in four years. No, almost nothing happened in the health care system in four years. A lot of money has been poured in there, and I hope that the current government, we, that we will now manage to take systemic steps that will use this financial volume, which has really swelled up there unprecedentedly, to improve the quality of care for the patient, for our client, and make it available and be friendly to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u83	I, too, thank the rapporteur. And your performance brought up some factual points. The first person to sign up is Mr David Kasal and will be prepared by Jiří Mašek, Farhan Kamal and Věra Adámková. Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u84	Thank you, Madam President. I haven't spoken in the last 24 hours, and now it hasn't left me calm. For Tom and I to know each other for a long time, I made some notes. I'll start with the eRecipe. I remember very well when we were sitting over there in the Acts, where we used to pass the fact that the political representation that was here in the past period approved the eRecipe. I'm not questioning the fact that doctors had to go around, but this is where it was approved. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been and it was done with some compromise to get through it at all. Second, haemodialysis. We cannot watch haemodialysis with Prague because haemodialysis is not in some regions. And I remember in the previous period, when specifically in our Pardubice Region they finished to cover it. Third, about the government putting money into health care. I don't think it was said here that the government gave the money from its own. I remember those times because I've been in the health service for some time, 28 years, and the previous ODS governments, the CSSD, had the opportunity to put the money there too. They could also increase to 10 percent. Did they do it? We didn't. And I'm glad it came to that, and it was. One last thing, if I still have time. I was a member of the KS COVID, which regularly reported, it was requested by the Health Committee, it was posted, so if anybody wanted, he could check with the Ministry of Health regularly. And at least what was done was done by a system of regional coordinators, where all the ICUs, all the beds of ICUs, all the facilities where the oxygen was, were mapped. And I gotta go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u85	Mr. Ambassador, time. Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr. Jiří Mašek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u86	Madam Vice-President, we simply have to be friendly, so, dear ten, through Madam Vice-President, 13.5 % has actually been valid since 1993. The average wage is just rising, and the money is growing. But where there's a big difference and where the money got to, you may not have heard it, or I may have said it incomprehensiblely, but in 2018, when the government started, the payment for the state insured was CZK 969, but when it ended, CZK 1 967, the difference is 998, let's say rounded to a thousand, and the thousand was multiplied by 6 million insured. So that's where the money really came from. It's just that it's easy with the funding and that 13.5 percent is still the same. It's not. Those are completely different numbers. Second - covid. I don't like it. I know it's true we couldn't handle him. He didn't have much of a handle on him. But we just had an extreme situation here, and we were actually dying significantly more people than the average in Europe compared to Europe, and it turns out that measures such as closing districts, but we're smart additionally, maybe closing borders, limiting businesses to so many hours, within so many hours, didn't have nearly as much effect as it turned out to have had vaccinations. I don't want to speculate here, and I'm not a friend. I've never promoted it. If we could inoculate them six months earlier, the numbers could have been completely different. But either we would have to - from our post-Soviet states except those from which we did not want the vaccines to be justified, so the Polák did not, the Slovák did not have it, it was quite similar. And the fact that we're just the center of Europe, we've spread it around, it just didn't work out. But the vaccination, I say again, is the debt to the future to make it happen. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u87	Mr. Ambassador, time. Thank you. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr Kamal Farhan. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u88	Madam President, Mr Member, she did not give me that nice speech of yours so that I would not respond to it, and I will take two things out of it. The first thing is the lack of doctors and their current situation. Yes, you mentioned that there was actually an increase in study sites by 20 percent, of course there are residential places and other aids. That's actually some kind of current solution. But to be enough doctors at the moment, and we both know it, so before such a doctor gets into practice and can work independently, it takes at least ten years. This means that the government that was here somewhere in 2010 to 2013 should actually be thinking about it, and its strategists were supposed to prepare and secure it. It's not the last government, but it's the government that was here ten, twelve years ago. Otherwise, it's just not possible to have those doctors right now, and we can't get them out of our fingers in quotation marks. [[16.40 hours]] And what made me very happy that you were happy and you fixed some of the previous speakers, so I didn't hear it, but good that you were happy, and I'm so glad that the government didn't put their money into the health care system, it helped those patients, it wasn't her money, it's our money. And that's the right thing to do. And I totally agree with you. But what I can't agree with, and I have to ask, if you were happy that Babišův's government put this money into it, why are you taking the opinion today that the Fialův government would take the money away from the Czech health service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u89	Thank you so much for keeping time. The other person who is on the verdict is Mrs Věra Adámková. Madam, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u90	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleague, dear ten, I really enjoyed the contribution, of course, and I'm glad you listened to it so actively. I just have to say that one has repeatedly made these repeated mistakes. And, of course, I understand all political matters and political assignments. I just have to say, because we've really known the doctor for about 30 years, that the situation is there so that, at the time of the covid, and I don't see the other side of it now, so the Babišův government, which was so horrible, so bad and so on, according to you, had a so-called opposition covid team where I wasn't part of it. And I must say that, in our opinion, Minister Vojtěch may have talked more with this opposition covid team and consulted more than anyone else. So I think that colleagues who are from you and probably were there, we really didn't go there, so maybe they could enlighten you better, and I don't want to explain here how they talked, what they could interfere with, and they had information. So all that information was there. And really this covid team was. That's just because you don't have that information again, so, of course, we're gonna enlighten them. And through Madam President, I am glad that you know that the government is not giving money out of its own, and I am glad that we agree on that. However, we cannot agree to reduce by CZK 400 payment per state insured person, and we will claim them, or so your government will tell them that we will preserve the quality of health care because you would be able to solve the quadratura of the circle. And so far, no one knows how to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u91	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. And we have another factual point that was made directly by the rapporteur, Tom Philipp. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you can see that it is so nice in the Health Committee with those paramedics, we actually love each other. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I gave six seconds to tell you. Of course, the payment decree, which was written at the end of last year, which was still written by the last minister, has somehow divided the money. And the funds are sufficient to cover the claims of the payment order, which treats the year 2022. And they're sufficient without the 14 billion. And the philosophy is, if I just have a hundred in my pocket and I decide to buy something for 50 kroner, I'm not going to go to the bank to borrow the 50 kroner to pay interest on it, but I'm going to reach into that pocket and pay it out of that pocket. That is, what Minister Stanjura is aiming at is that he does not want to pay interest on the 14 billion when there is no need at the moment. And I'm looking forward to a joint debate about regular valorization and how the threshold will be set, what we'll be kind of peddling away from. And believe me, I will do, together with you, and especially with colleagues from a position to make funds as much as possible for health care, because of course it will mean quality care for patients and satisfied health professionals in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u93	Thank you for keeping time. That was the last point of fact. At this point, I can say that we are in a general debate and that at this point I do not have any prior rights here. And at this point, I would like to ask that Mr Patrik Nacher come to the speaker's desk during the debate, which will have a time limit, which I will soon start for him. The Member said that if he didn't make it, he would like to use his right twice ten minutes. I'm gonna ask if with that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u94	Well, I can say it right now, I don't want to take advantage of it any other way, I have a priority right there, but I don't want to abuse it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u95	Okay. I'll ask everyone who's here, if anybody has a problem with it, so that we don't disturb him in the post. I see above all on the right hand side that you agree. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u96	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, I don't think I'm gonna run out of time, but in case I happen to be interrupted in the middle of some kind of bearing thought. This time I won't say I didn't want to perform because I wanted to perform. I've prepared some material for this. I'll take it from a different perspective. But first, before I start talking, I've made notes here about what has been said, and I'd like to say something about it. First, about the erecept, that the previous government is not positively responsible, but only the previous one, and that therefore, as an YES movement, we are adding some positives that are not coming to us. Here I would like to remind you that you often argue in negative matters that the YES movement has been in the government for eight years. It wasn't the Prime Minister for four years, but that he was in the government for eight years. If it's negative, then it should be logically positive, and not selectively, that once as negative yes, in positive no. That's one point. Second, giving taxpayers money is taxpayers' money, not governments. I agree. But that's just a normal terminology that politicians call. Last I read, you're giving money, or you're adding to seniors since July 1st. You're also saying you're giving it. It's just the way it is. And I'm also not going to correct you that it's taxpayers' money. Everyone knows that. Last comment from this wound - regular valorization. Personally, I'm glad there's gonna be this mechanism. On the other hand, it's true, and let's say that, even if it's inconclusive, if we didn't protest so long, because this proposal here has actually been announced since the state budget hearing, the question is, if the opposition hadn't created the pressure here, then if you would have come up with the valorisation. I don't know. Maybe that's a rhetorical question. The translator isn't here. My colleague Tom Philipp isn't listening right now, so I don't know. But I think, thanks to the opposition's pressure, you've come up with the regular valorization. If we cut it short, I don't think you'd probably come up with that. But it's hard to prove. And now a few notes on what we're actually discussing here. I'm gonna go back to what I said last night, that was about 3:30 in the morning, I guess, when I was wondering, I'm kind of enjoying who's actually presenting it. It's an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, and it's presented by the Minister of Finance. Logically, one would expect the Minister of Health to present this. So I would ask such a rhetorical question, if the government had come up with an increase in payments for state insured persons, whether the Minister of Finance would also present it, or if it were positive, if it were an increase, it would logically be presented here by the Minister of Health. I don't think so. I asked Minister Válek, asked about Twitter. I haven't heard from him yet. And I didn't notice a strong position anywhere. So it affects me more, I'm not saying that it is, but it makes the Minister of Health not very happy with the proposal. And as I'm saying, it would be beautiful if it ever happened, the situation, if there's an automatic mechanism, no more, but if the government came up with an increase, I expect it to sit here -- no one's sitting here right now -- but there's a health minister sitting here to say, "I've got more money for health care." Logically. That's what I expect. Now what are we discussing here today? Let me just remind you of the context. In fact, from my point of view, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, we are continuing to discuss essentially de facto the state budget, because we have approved here the state budget, where the savings of 14 billion have already been envisaged, however we are discussing the law at first reading and it will be approved sometimes, I don't know when. But in the state budget, this change was already planned. [[16.50 hours]] Here, let me remind you what I said, I don't want to delay that I'm already in the state budget when I was describing the state budget, so I said, among other characteristics, that the state budget is false, that there are some elements that have to be added. One of them is the 14 billion, the other is, for example, a billion and a half for the Czech Post office, or insufficient money to stop futile executions. So it's going to come back here gradually, now it's the first thing that's coming back here. In other words, for me, I think it should be different. That it should first be defined how much of that money should go to health care, what is the vision, and then prepare the budget, and not have a better budget, and there count on the things that we actually discuss legislatively after two months. Notaben, I'm going to remind you that when we approved the budget, and I showed the table here, there were another 5,8 billion cuts in health care. That means, in total, we're talking here that health care has lost or will lose 20 billion crowns. And that needs to be put back into some context, when they are also politicians who say that thanks to robust health care, we have somehow gone through this covidal situation, and now we have a solution to the refugee crisis, where, of course, you have 300,000 refugees, 300,000 potential new patients. The minister, who is not here, spoke of those balances on health insurance accounts, which are nearly 52 billion, which is, say, 12 percent of the total amount that goes to health insurance companies or health insurance companies. And I ask, is that a lot or a little bit? So let's talk about it. Twelve percent is a lot or not enough? On another occasion, I think the Minister would say that this is not enough and that there is a need for a sustainable situation here. Sustainability is quite a busy word you use. If you look at the results of these health insurance companies in 2021 minus 13 billion, and this year, they count on minus 9.5 billion, and it's about sustainability, not almost zero, and then say, now it's just right, and now we can only think about how much we're going to pay for state insurance companies. I think it's too late. I think it's too late. So it's sustainability. The second thing the Minister didn't mention here is that if you look at the bank account balance table, of course, there's almost 30 billion there, and then you have other, smaller health insurance companies that have, like, a billion or a billion 200 million. This means that there is some unevenness, and the question is what is to be the goal of wanting, unwanted. If the aim is to reduce insurance companies, after all, the minister here said on the microphone, I wrote it down, literally: We don't need seven insurance companies. So it would also be good to say if it was just some position on the microphone, or if it was some kind of vision of this government, that the number of insurance companies would be reduced. Let's get this straight. And again, it's some vision you come up with in front of the Chamber of Deputies, in front of the public, and so on. He actually added that he didn't want seven insurance companies and he didn't want one. I remember that. I wrote myself a note. But it's coming out right now, is it about reducing insurance companies? Yes or no? Likewise, questions arise as to whether this would not happen and whether there would be a gradual - Now it sounds so bad, but I'm sorry, I've been asleep for three hours, I can't think of another word at this point - starving some insurance companies. And if we're not going to introduce the above-standards, then that's what we're going to do. It's a legitimate political debate. Personally, I wouldn't put up with it from a certain point of view, but I need to say this, too. If it's not such a side way to open up excesses and just not name it and then say, "There's nothing else left for us to do, we have to do it this way because the insurance companies just don't have the money exhausted." One last comment, my colleagues have already said it here, and I will not repeat it here, I will not have to stretch it out, nor will I read you a letter from the Health and Social Welfare Union, which, just as we approved the state budget, has warned against having this item in the state budget that we are actually discussing right now. I really don't want to delay, but I want to put it in context. It needs to be realized that here we have, how you like to use challenges, two big health-related challenges, and that's the covid, if it's after the covid, before the covid, nobody knows. And just for testing, it's some 7 billion crowns I found. The second context of the situation is, as I said, the refugee crisis and 300,000 Ukrajinec, where, for example, in terms of covid, I found that vaccination is 34 percent, and the other, third dose, boosting, is about one, two percent, if the doctors here fill me in. That means we need to work with that, too, in some way. We don't live in a vacuum. This means that in the context of covid, in the context of 300,000 new patients, you come up with minus 14 billion to fill back the budget that was already approved two months ago. That's what I think is the context of what we're discussing here. At least I'm glad it results in the idea of regular valorisation, however much I'd like to underline what my colleague Mašek said here, that valorization is a good idea, but once you lower the base, of course you start from a lower base, so the valorization will be as easy and can start faster. So it's going to be the effect, or it's going to look like it's the effect. So many notes. See, I did it in 11 1/2 minutes. I thank you for your attention that after some 16 hours or how many I got first in line. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u97	Thank you. That was Mr Patrik Nacher, and now Mr Vladimír Zlínský is signing up with two contributions. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u98	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a rather long performance here, but given the situation, I will allow myself to shorten it and leave out the more boring passages. I'll follow up on Dr. Mašek, where I'll comment on such things, but if you've listened to my previous performances that I've had, you know I'm interested in crisis situations and their solutions. So I'm going to look into this from the perspective of a possible crisis situation that our society is not going into. My view will be a little different. And here I am also responding to Dr Philipp's comments, which he wanted us to discuss here in a matter of fact, without any obstructions to the current health system and its issues. So I'm going to start with the main issue of this law, he's actually saying it here, the Minister of Health Válek, that the Ministry of Finance has prepared a bill and expects the circus to save CZK 14 billion in the state budget, and that this will have no impact on the quality and availability of health care provided in the Czech Republic, because the funds would be idle on health insurance accounts as a financial reserve without being used effectively. I'm going to try to contradict this thought construct a little bit. Unfortunately, this idea design and financial plan is threatened by the instability of contemporary social and economic events both in our country and in our surroundings globally. [[17,00 hours]] You may have noticed that there is a haunted energy crisis around us, which, if this crisis develops, will affect all the activities of our society, including health care, and where it is therefore not possible to clearly predict changes to many parameters that may jeopardise this. I take it as a projection of the near past and the present state into the future. It does not count here that there could be any critical deterioration in economic and the resulting effects. So I'll start with those points that need to be taken into account. The level of inflation cannot be clearly estimated and therefore its effects on the expenditure side of health establishments cannot be accurately foreseen. And at this economically turbulent time, it is not even clear that the pace of economic growth or, if necessary, decline, God forbid, and wage growth and accurately predict the effects on the income side of health insurance companies. This could lead to delays in payments - that is what Mr Mašek here was talking about - for health care establishments, and thus their decline into secondary insolvency. This would have a very negative impact on the quality of health care provided in the Czech Republic. Another negative consequence of these effects may be the flow of health workers into retirement, abroad or other employment. Especially the mass departure of experienced practitioners and pediatricians into retirement would be a disaster and their activities will be irreplaceable due to current and future systemic challenges. Second, delayed care. It is possible to assume increased pressure on medical devices to perform procedures and to examine delayed care due to the pandemic of covid-19. This will cost health insurance companies increased costs and will put pressure on the application of the various regulatory measures that health insurance companies have or may have at their disposal, such as comparing their own income of health establishments with a comparable period or comparing the cost of medical treatment and the indicated care of a given health facility with a comparable period of the previous year. The question is how massively delayed preventive care will be reflected in the increase in the cost of health care due to the neglect of the health condition of the population, and thus the increase in serious conditions, especially oncological diseases, whose treatment is extremely expensive, has already been mentioned here. Third, the covid-19 pandemic. So far, it is not clear and cannot be the way in which this pandemic will evolve. You know, I've been acting out here that I'm not a fan of any covidism, so, of course, I wish it had been the way it had been. So far, we are seeing a shift towards less pathogenicity, and let us believe that this current trend, including a sensible approach by the media and political leaders, will be maintained on this subject in the autumn. It is also unclear how the pandemic of covid-19 will affect the health of our population, when the media of mainstream and some professional circles gradually leak information about the long-term adverse consequences of losing this disease in some people. So I'm not an expert on this, but I've also found some less serious conditions, such as taste and smell impairment, which I can also mention in my case, or other symptoms such as alopecia, which is hair loss, or supposedly erectile dysfunction, I won't confirm, but of course there are serious conditions such as various cardiomyopathy and pulmonary fibrosis. Nor is it clear what the long-term consequences of massive vaccination will be with mRNA-based vaccines, spike protein production, long-term wearing of masks and respirators and population isolation. I hope again, I don't want to be scared here that I'm sure there will be some serious consequences, but I haven't forgiven myself to mention it. Fourth, Ukrainian war refugees. It is not yet possible to predict exactly how many refugees from Ukraine will eventually arrive to us, so far it is a circus of just over 300,000 people, and what their age structure will be, and hence their health and illness. According to the information available, the current wave consists more of children and younger women, or a smaller number of men, but it cannot be excluded that people older or socially weaker in worse health will gradually come to us and, if necessary, we will receive and treat many wounded Ukrainian men in the future after the end of the war. Furthermore, it cannot be said what causes the massive mixing of our population and especially children with the incoming population. After all, the structure and frequency of some infectious diseases vary in our population and Ukraine. So far, TB and AIDS infectious diseases appear to be my main risk, which has already been mentioned here. I would like to pick out other diseases that I would be a little worried about, which are hepatitis B and C, especially the C that we don't have vaccinations against, is more risky, which occur in Ukraine in a much larger number than in our population and can be expected to increase their incidence among our populations. It is a disease whose treatment is extremely costly and long-term, lifelong in the case of AIDS. The long-term conflict of war has always been a seedground of other infectious diseases and it is impossible to rule out the introduction of unknown or unknown or unusual natural but artificially modified pathogenic infectious agents into our population. It may seem to you to be science fiction, but unfortunately, at present, the treatment of the virus, genetic modification of the virus and bacteria, is quite common and is happening in our country. I'm not saying that for the sake of some kind of treachery, I would say, but because it actually examines what the individual genes of pathogens have a purpose. Fifth - personnel internal debt. With the turn to liberal to neoliberal society, the development of modern medicine and digitization with the possibilities of accurate control and regulation, there is an increasing pressure on the exercise of their profession on mental resistance, the knowledge of doctors and all workers in non-medical areas. The environment in which they are forced to work is increasingly hostile to them and their workload is enormous and wage appreciation in other fields, not so demanding, comparable or even better. All of this often results - perhaps you have some personal experience - in some medical professionals' rude behavior. I'll admit that something similar to burnout syndrome is what I've been through. So I don't want to say that I understand and defend it, but we have to take this into account that this is adversely affecting the psychics, these enormous pressures here. All the paramedics, not just the doctors. The result is a regional lack of doctors in some of the not so attractive fields and not so attractive regional areas of the Czech Republic. These are the fields - this has also been said here: practical physicians for adults, practical physicians for children and adolescents or some outpatient specialists and especially middle medical staff. According to the director of the IHIS, Professor Dušek, we are in danger of a ticking demographic bomb in some medical fields. Unfortunately, we are again in the same fields: practical physicians for adults, practical doctors for children and adolescents. [[17.10 hours]] It was said that the number of students in medical schools was increasing. I am extremely pleased with this, it is the right decision, I fully support it, but I am afraid it will not be enough for those young doctors to go to the fields that we need, it means the practical doctors for adults and children and adolescents, because, also, it has been said here, the field must be attractive, it must be attractive so that those young people go there. And I don't mean the attractiveness of financial, although here too, but it must be attractive to them professionally, which is why I would be extraordinarily plating. In these fields, the average age of doctors is around sixty years, and there are tens of percent of doctors on or after retirement, and the number of doctors preparing to replace them is unlikely to be sufficient, even if the retirement of doctors will be gradual. In the event of their sudden departure due to the deterioration of the conditions for carrying out their activities, I am not afraid to say that there would be a disaster of primary care. Another big debt is in the education of young doctors for practical skills and knowledge through older colleagues, where these qualities, in addition to theoretical knowledge, enthusiasm and determination, form the basis of quality health care in our country. In most cases, this is grossly underestimated and neglected. All these debts will have to be repaid if we want to maintain the quality and availability of health care in our country in the long term. Since I was myself in the 1990s - unfortunately, I was old - as a private doctor, I experienced situations where health insurance companies did not pay on time or tried to grossly regulate my professional activities, when we were regulated to averages, which we did not even know, which were counted backwards, I would like to warn very seriously about the proposed reduction of contributions for state insured people. The impact on the quality and availability of health care in the Czech Republic could be significant. Rather, I think that even if my concerns were not fulfilled - I mean, I hope it didn't come out that I'm haunting here, I'm just saying my concerns here - so given the uncertain and turbulent future, having a certain financial reserve on health insurance accounts might not be counterproductive, so I cannot support the adoption of that law. Thank you for your attention, and I call on the colleagues of the doctor who have listened to this to the end, possibly to comment on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u99	Thank you so much for keeping time. And now the next person who is enrolled in the debate is Mrs Karla Maříková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u100	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The government is presenting an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Insurance Act, which reduces payments for state insured persons. The assessment base for insurance premiums paid by the State for the person for whom the State is the payer under the special legislation is currently CZK 13 088 per calendar month. The government's proposal reduces this amount to CZK 11 607. Since January 2022, the state has been transferring CZK 1 967 per month to insurance companies for public health insurance. The submitted proposal reduces the payment for state insured persons to CZK 1,567 per month, i.e. by CZK 400, and not CZK 200, as is often presented. The reduction in payment will be valid from 1 July 2022. The state pays health insurance, for example, for pensioners, children, students, unemployed, women on maternity leave, prisoners, but now also for refugees from Ukraine. This year, approximately CZK 125 billion was to travel from the budget to public health insurance. The Ministry of Finance calculated the savings in the draft budget to CZK 14 billion. It is not only the opposition that opposes this step, as it is presented here, but also a number of experts. Also president of the Czech Medical Chamber or also outpatient specialists. According to the President of the Czech Medical Chamber Milan Kubek, the reduction in the payment for state insured persons is unprecedented and no cabinet has taken such a step so far. Kubek also said that it is a slap in the face of health workers who have shown great commitment during the epidemic of covid in the last two years, he told the Czech News Agency. For our health care website, he said that he would like to remind us that it was the health care that carried the greatest weight of managing the covid-19 disease epidemic, and the deployment of health professionals did not make it necessary to completely stop the economy. At least tens of billions of crowns were saved by health care to the Czech economy and the state. Yet, paradoxically, health care is supposed to be the resort where government cuts hit the hardest. This is not fair, says the President of the Czech Medical Chamber Milan Kubek. It is precisely the lack of the amount of this proxy payment by the state that is the main cause of the long-term economic problems of chronically underfunded Czech health care. The improvement occurred only after the previous government gradually began to increase this payment, with effect from 1 July 2020, by 500 CZK per month, with effect from 1 January 2021 by 200 CZK per month and with effect from 1 January 2022 by another 200 CZK. Outpatient specialists are very upset by this step, so they wrote an open letter to both the Prime Minister and the ministers of health and finance. But we don't hear from either minister here or the Prime Minister that they'd even mention it. Doctors warn that if the government insists on cuts, it will also affect patients, as the Health Log said. Moreover, since the second half of 2021, the spectrum of patients has changed to outpatient specialists. In fact, people with chronic post-covide problems are increasing, and many have postponed their visit to doctors because of fear of pandemics. The increase in overhead and the change in the spectrum of patients will certainly continue in 2023, even if the pandemic ends. If it does not end, the situation will be more gratifying, written by specialists in their open letter. In that letter, they specifically stated four reasons for reducing the payments for state insured persons being ill-considered, which was pointed out by our health care website. The first reason is the high rate of inflation, which makes prices of energy, fuel, food rising, which, according to the Czech Medical Chamber, will also lead to pressure on employees to increase payments, salaries and wages. In this context, it should be recalled that the health care system is devastated by personnel, and if healthcare facilities are unable to offer attractive wages, this crisis will continue to deepen, the President of the Czech Medical Chamber Milan Kubek warns again. The second reason is the covid-19 epidemic, which according to the president of the Czech Medical Chamber has not yet ended. Quote: It is far from just the current beginning of the so-called secondary omicron wave, much worse that no one knows what awaits us in the fall. The epidemic is also linked to delayed health care, which patients still need, and now they will have a lot of catching up to do. This was not only a preventive examination, but also an operation whose repeated delay causes patients unnecessary suffering and impairs the quality of their lives. To these people, who are also victims of the epidemic, we have a debt that we should pay them back by providing them with the necessary medical care as soon as possible. Of course, paramedics will try to catch up, but these performances will have to be paid by health insurance companies, warns the president of the medical chamber Milan Kubek again. A fourth and important reason has been added to this, and this is the migration wave caused by the war in Ukraine. Hundreds of thousands of refugees will need health care, and even this care must be paid for. Since most of the refugees we want to help are women and children, but also sick people, health care will be needed on their part. Our health care awaits an enormous burden, the President of the Czech Medical Chamber Milan Kubek concludes his interview for our health care website. That no government has so far stepped in to reduce the payment for state insured persons, and although the state budget without serious ones should not deepen its deficit, it is precisely the health sector that Kubek does not consider to be too prudent at the moment of crisis. [[17.20 hours]] I have already mentioned that refugees from Ukraine will also become state insured and will undoubtedly need health care. The Czech Republic grants a visa to refugees for the purpose of abstinence, after which refugees rank among the so-called state insured and will be entitled to full-time treatment from the public health insurance system. Several hundred thousand people are involved, which will also be reflected in insurance costs. If the number of refugees in the Czech Republic approaches half a million, this will mean an increase in public health insurance expenditure by CZK 16 to 17 billion and even former finance minister for TOP 09, one of the government parties, and current vice-chairman of the Board of Directors VZP Miroslav Kalousek, drew attention to this on Twitter. The government's approach, which decided to save on the public health insurance system, was also criticised by President Miloš Zeman: Here it is said that insurance companies have reserves of about 50 billion. What we don't know is that these reserves can be exhausted over a month and a half. This is an expert opinion from the sources of insurance companies, pointed out by President Miloš Zeman. Health insurance companies planned with a deficit of CZK 9.5 billion this year, expected income of CZK 431.2 billion and expenses of CZK 440.7 billion. At the end of 2021, health insurance companies had total balances in bank accounts of approximately CZK 51.8 billion, of which approximately CZK 23.6 billion in the so-called basic health insurance fund from which healthcare is paid. Last year there was a deficit of 50 billion, but due to the pandemic, the prediction was incomplete and the deficit was approximately 13 billion. Our health care has been very underfunded in the past, but now it is comparable to the standard level in developed countries to the west of our borders. The amount of health expenditure relative to the size of the economy, or GDP, has been approaching the level of the most advanced European countries over the last four years, thus improving the management of hospitals, health care salaries and the availability of healthcare. The reduction of payments for state insured persons fundamentally threatens the current positive trend of financing the best but also the most expensive health care. For example, more money paid by the State for state insured persons makes it possible to increase salaries or health care wages. The government's decision to freeze payments for state insured persons for 2022 is a big mistake to which patients themselves will pay by reducing the quality and availability of health care. And it's the first time ever since some post-November representation has decided to cut state insurance payments and actually reduced the amount of money for health care. Government cuts threaten the financial stability of health insurance companies and the economy of health service providers. That's why I'm filing for rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u101	Yes, I'm registering that there's been a motion to dismiss at first reading. This proposal will be voted on when the full general debate is held, I am just stating it. Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. And the other person who is enrolled in the debate is Mr Jan Síla. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u102	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would also very much like to comment here on the proposal at the same time, the Government Bill on Public Health Insurance Insurance, but I found that, in fact, all of my previous speakers have already said what I had originally prepared, so I will mention only briefly, I will not delay and express my opinion in a few words. In this bill it is about reducing payments for about 6 million state insured persons by CZK 400 per month. By the Government Decree of the Babiš Government 252/2021 Coll. the assessment basis for the calculation of insurance premiums for the year 2022 14 570 CZK was established. From this was calculated monthly payment for state insured persons 1 967 CZK, which is still valid and should be valid until 30 June this year. Prime Minister Fiala's government has decided to improve the state budget by driving a wedge and reducing payments for state insured persons from 1. 7. 2022 by 400 crowns to the value of 1 576 crowns, which corresponds to the measuring base of the previous year, not last year, as the Prime Minister argues. The SPD does not agree with this step, and it will strongly protest against it, for these reasons - I will only read the basics here, because these reasons have already been discussed thoroughly enough here, I will just say the points. Firstly, it is a high rate of inflation, which makes energy prices, fuel prices, food prices rise, that is, inputs, all inputs of health care providers. Second, it's a covid-19 epidemic that hasn't ended yet, and no one knows how it's going to behave in the fall. Thirdly, it is delayed health care in a pandemic that cannot be postponed and unfortunately has to be carried out, and someone has to pay for it. Fourthly, it is an unexpected migration wave caused by the war in Ukraine. Hundreds of thousands of war refugees have actually become state insured and will need health care. As we can see, our health care will be subjected to enormous burdens this year. The government should certainly not deepen the state budget deficit for serious reasons, but saving for health care at present is not very prudent. The SPD will vote against the adoption of the draft amendment to Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u103	I thank you and you are logged in once more. [[A Member of the Force doesn't want to get out anymore.]] You won't use it, well, thank you very much. So thank you for keeping time. And now, who is enrolled in the general debate, is Mr Jaroslav Dvořák. I beg him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u104	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers, especially colleagues, have already said most of this, so I'm going to cut my speech a lot short with the fact that we're all actually talking about reducing health finances through payments through state insurance. Moreover, it has not yet occurred that there will be cuts in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Health amounting to approximately CZK 6 billion, so together it is already 20 billion. Health care is thus becoming a resort that should save the most, at a time when it has had a two-year fight against the pandemic of coronavirus, and who knows how it will be in the autumn, and in front of it the current funding of health care provision also for refugees from Ukraine, which will be financed as well as for state insured and insured people in general. The reasons that have already been mentioned here are high inflation rates, when - I work as an outpatient specialist - so there are increasing inputs, whether they are energy or water, sewerage, rents. Next, the covid-19 epidemic isn't over, we don't know what's coming for us in the fall. It may be a rather benign existing form, but there may also be some mutated form that will burden both the hospital and the outpatient sector with new heavy patients. And then many times this migration wave, when hundreds of thousands of refugees will need health care. By causing an epidemic of covid-19, other health care had to be restricted, and a large number of health performances had to be postponed, but patients needed to do so. For example, patients in the field of orthopedics - I am a neurologist, but in the field of orthopedics, there are extended waiting times for hip and knee surgery for a disproportionately long time. In fact, the citizens of the Czech Republic are already paying for this, for the consequences of the epidemic, and now, of course, we are obliged to take care of some 330,000 new insured people from Ukraine. Indeed, the current refugee wave is made up of children. There is a catastrophic shortage of pediatricians, practitioners, dentists, even children's psychiatrists don't exist there, we are now raising a child's neurologist. Disaster, huge waiting times. And, of course, we also have to cover the demands of new immigrants and our patients will pay for it. In fact, more or less everything I have prepared here has already been told by my colleagues, I have more or less just followed up on such brief information and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u105	I also thank you for keeping time. At the moment, the next person who is enrolled in the general debate is Jan Hrnčíř, whom I do not see here at the moment, so absent. The next person who is enrolled in the general debate is Mr David Pražák, who told me that he would not want to perform, he is dealing with an absentee when he then speaks. The next person who is enrolled is a member of Julius Špičák, also absent. So it is Miloslav Janulík's turn. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, before I give any facts to me, because I've actually been living in this system my whole life, starting to work in the '80s, I remember building that quasi-insurance system. I know how it worked in the '90s, what it was like, how hard it was, how mean it was, how no one in another business sector could even imagine getting paid for their work in six months. And it was basically normal. I went through the system, like a colleague here said about himself being old, so I'm the same age, but I'm not saying it about myself. So I went through it from making beds to managing a medium-sized hospital. I have some experience with this, and I can tell you that I really hate to remember some of the 90's, because we were really in a situation where we were waiting for the money, and unfortunately the governments, the parties that were in control at the time, are actually back today and they're coming back with the same recipes that they were. I even remember very well that I had high hopes for my time, as we all doctors or health professionals did, in the top, which was then sent to the post of Minister of Health. She spoke very nicely in the campaign, so we expected improvement, but then he became Minister colleague Heger and basically nothing happened. Nobody's gonna... Of course, for years we have pointed out that the payment for state insurance is shamefully low and doesn't cover anything, and it's huge discretion. It never really mattered, when it was essentially resolved, it resolved under the rule of Andrej Babiš, and I would say that for us medical memorials in an unexpectedly positive way. And now that there are a lot of factors - I was more than eight years ago when we came to the VZP, so the VZP didn't have a legally-filled fund that it was supposed to have, a reserve, and it didn't bother anyone at all, no one thought that the law was ever respected. At the time, of course, the non-payment chain in health care was absolutely huge, it was a vicious circle because insurance companies paid late, what they wanted, when they wanted, as they wanted, because it just didn't have any other solution. And then, of course, health care facilities, whether they were large medical facilities or small ones, got into secondary insolvency, owed to suppliers and so on. Hospitals showed claims after the maturity of 180, 165 days and so on and so on. I don't even want to talk about it. But what shocks me is that now, basically, the wheel of history has turned around, the Top Minister of Health is coming again, and he didn't defend it here yesterday, and there are two things going against each other all of a sudden, so we're going to reduce the payment for state insured people at a time when the health services had to deal with that covidal impact, of course it was huge sums, but, as I've already said here, we've got at least 300 000 other clients, other insured people who, of course, are carrying huge costs. You've all heard the numbers here. So these two things are going to lose 14.5 billion less, and we're going to increase spending, so we're going to get into a situation where health care just doesn't have the sums. And that someone thinks it doesn't manifest itself in providing care, so it's not even naivism, it's just a goddamn lie. That's what every medic knows, it's nonsense, it has to be shown. And where it can manifest itself, well, of course, the maturity will be extended, some performances will be postponed, the expensive things will be postponed, or in some way, we will avoid them to save in some way, because the 400 crowns, the reduction, are very fundamental and, in my view, completely pointless. And even if I felt that it would change the state budget situation in some way. I mean, it's not gonna change that, because sooner or later, we're gonna meet here to change... that the parameters of the state budget are gonna change, the debt, of course, in the quasi-reduction quotation marks that were supposed to happen here, so, of course, it's long gone, that's a deep past. It's all gonna go to war, and we're gonna be right where we were. But the first person to touch, the first person to take the fall, they're paramedics. And that's just the way it's been since the revolution, and that's just how I feel about it, and that's how we paramedics feel about it. I'm telling you, the same guys who showed it to us in the '90s and later, I can't believe the good intentions. I'm just sorry. I kind of don't believe it anymore. Now, of course, there's been a shift, and I'd say, at least I've been perceiving him, the last 48 hours, that we're going to talk about the valorization that's going to be firmly anchored there, and it's not going to be the voluntarism, the creativity. But if the creativity were as positive as it was up to now, then I guess we paramedics wouldn't be complaining, we'd be glad that's how it is. But if it's anchored there, then I want to see how it's going to go, how it's going to be described exactly in the law, that if inflation is going to be so much and so much, and so on, then we're going to increase the payment for state insured people that it's going to be fixed once and for all. I don't have much optimism, but I believe it could be. But most of all, I want to know how it's going to be for this year, because, of course, the increases, the finance minister here admits that he doesn't actually know, because it's hard to predict. That's hardly countable. Well, just because it's so hard to predict, to calculate, I'd wait for the situation to develop, and then we'd start dealing with it. I don't want to live to see it, or I don't want to sit on the board and talk about the fact that the reserve fund is just wearing off, that... It's like the mantra keeps repeating here, how many health insurance balances they had. Well, it's a good thing they had balances because they were ready. If it wasn't for us and we weren't holding the money in that VZP, that's the way the covid pandemic never did. That was because the balances were there. And who knows what the covid's gonna do in the fall? Nobody knows. These are all hypotheses, theories. If someone were to tell me that there's gonna be a war in my life in Europe, I wouldn't believe it, and look, there's a war going on, there's a shooting range out there, and there's just hundreds of thousands of people that need help. But, of course, we have to be prepared for this somehow, and not for these things to go directly against each other, and just to make the situation worse in synergy. So I don't see why, of course, I'll never raise my hand after life's experience. But it can't happen, it's just a goddamn lie, it's not even fiction. That's a goddamn lie. Of course, we who are in that system every day know that it has no other choice and no other solution. And then the insurance companies will sort it out simply by extending the maturity. And that's all there was. We've been through all this. So why do we have to relive it all? And again, I can see that neither the person nor the cast has changed. It always comes out of the same places. So you just didn't get the experience once? I don't think so, I guess... I've learned my lesson, but I guess my colleagues here obviously didn't learn their lesson because you don't burn, do you? So when we tried to describe it to them, the burden of our situation, no one even believed us, because normally no one would expect to be paid for his work by the person who orders it, which in this case is the insurance system he wants and when he wants. It's just... Such a situation may only be in the health sector. You just don't see it anywhere else that the insurance company tells you how much you get for the job, and he doesn't really care if it doesn't cover the costs. That's just your business. Figure it out. And he'll pay you whenever he wants. Because he just has - what are your mechanisms? You don't have any. We've been there. It seems that the time is coming again, so we - don't wonder that I'm gonna defend myself with my fingernail teeth, and if someone can't convince me that this isn't the way where it was, to the horror, because it really, it was an awkward time, I'm glad it was long gone. But now I really feel like it's going to come back again. [[17.40 hours]] So I just want you to convince me that this valorization element is going to be there and so on, and most importantly, what convinces us is just how the system is going to go, or the state of the company at all. I'm talking about the health and the care and all the factors, just, you know, the increase in input, energy and so on, and so on and so on. So I just want to say, personally, I'm really glad that I don't have to run a big health facility today, because then the responsible guys will tell you, well, a good manager has to deal with it. I've been there. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u107	Thank you very much for keeping time. Your speech raised one point of fact, with which Mr David Kasal is registered. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u108	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm just doing a little thing. I'd follow up on my colleague, Janulík. There is a little bit of a difference in doctors in the 1990s and in doctors at present. In the '90s, they were here, they couldn't even get abroad, and they kept working here. At present, if we allow it, those doctors can go anywhere in Europe without a problem. And we can't afford that at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u109	Thank you so much for keeping time. Another person who is enrolled in the general debate is Mr Jiří Mašek, who I do not see here at the moment. And the next one who's logged in is Mr. Milan Brázdil. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u110	Thank you for your word. That's fast. Something's changed. Something must have happened, and it turns out that we're all almost talking, we're quite noticing. I've had a lot prepared, too, but a lot has been said, so I don't want to delay. However, we are human. People who are different from that animal world by actually walking upright, we think, we have a second signal system and we are also able to speak. And so I would like to be human, too, and I would like to draw you to what is actually the greatest threat of every man in this world, unless he is a believer who certainly has values a little differently. Well, we're just afraid of our end. We realize that we will not be in this world forever, and we want to live this life well. And to be long in this world, enjoy it, we must be healthy. And that health today, genetics plays a big role, but surely health professionals, doctors, the whole health care system takes care of us in some way. And just crazy, and I'm not crazy, or certainly any of you, wants to cut a branch under you and say, so we don't put the money in our health care, we don't take care of it. That's a paradox. We can say that we're not going to, I don't know, try so hard on the bike paths, or I don't know, other things, I understand. But actually denying your nature in this world - wanting to be here as long as possible and being healthy - it just doesn't go to my head. And that's why I think the 14 billion are part of the health department. And to not delay, after all, I've got a lot prepared here, a lot of us have been talking about who the state insured is, for whom the state, by the way, is 60 percent of the population of the Czech Republic! The state is 60 per cent - 40 per cent is working, 60 per cent of people fall under the so-called term state insured. And it's quite a lot of people. This is where I'd sort of read them after all. And it's the seniors. The State shall pay the health insurance for the old-age pensioner. The same applies to disabled persons, but also to orphans or widows' pensions. Second, it's a careless child. A state insured person is also a child until the end of compulsory schooling and a dependent child under the age of 26 if he is constantly preparing for future occupations, studies or, on the contrary, cannot prepare for future occupations or earn for illness. It also includes those persons under 26 who are not able to pursue gainful employment because of long-term health problems. Since the beginning of 2018, new categories of state insured persons are persons over 26 years of age who study first in the doctoral programme of the university. They are also subject to health insurance by the State on condition that they are not employed or self-employed. That's two. The third person to whom insurance is paid is the recipient of maternity benefits. It's a group of people -- well, there's probably nothing to comment on. The fourth area is persons caring for persons in the degree of dependence. The State shall pay health insurance to persons who are in II., III. or IV. the degree of dependence on the assistance of another person. The caregiver who takes care of the dependants at the above levels also has the insurance paid. These include those who care for a child under the age of ten in the I. degree of addiction. Another person is the recipient of the benefits of material distress. The State pays insurance to them and to persons with whom they are jointly assessed for entitlement to benefits. However, it must not be a pensioner, a parental allowance, a job seeker at the employment office, a dependent child, a self-employed person or an employee. The sixth circuit is the persons in the register at the employment office. Applicants for employment at the employment office shall be covered by health insurance by the State until they are excluded from the register. Another, seventh, is the performance of detention and detention or punishment. State insured persons include persons in detention, detention or imprisonment. There's also a constitutional protective treatment. Furthermore, for whom the state of health insurance is still paying, it is the youngsters who receive institutional or protective education. However, until the age of 19. In addition, the beneficiaries are either a life-long pension or an old-age pension or a fixed-term pension with a specified amount of pension. Ten, they're long-term volunteer workers. They're also paid for by the state. They are foreigners with a residence permit for temporary protection unless they have income from dependent or self-employed activities. For the 12th time, they are foreigners and have been granted a visa to stay over 90 days in order to be allowed if they do not have income from dependent or self-employed activity. The same applies to their children born in our Republic. For the 13th time, applicants for international protection shall be together with children born in the territory if they do not have income from dependent or self-employed activity. For the fourteenth time, the recipients of sickness insurance benefits are not paying themselves, nor is the employer paying for them, and they became ill during or after their employment. It is necessary to have a permanent residence in the Czech Republic. For the fifteenth time, spouses or registered partners of civil servants are under the Civil Service Act, but must follow them to the post of secondment, may not have income from employment or be self-employed. And in the sixteenth, they're disabled in III. the degree or age of entitlement to an old-age pension but did not receive the necessary period of insurance. They shall not be employed or engaged in business. It's a lot of people. 60 percent of Czech citizens are paid by the State. I think a lot of colleagues have said a lot of things before me, perhaps just in the end. The state is actually the biggest debtor of our health care. That's a terrible paradox. The state is the largest in the health sector, because it is actually not enough to pay for these people I have named. [[17.50 hours]] All the more I think, the 14 billion really belong in health care. And I'm not gonna repeat the fact that there was a covid affair, that there were refugees and so on. Let's respect our paramedics, thank them. And the money isn't just for the care, it's for their salaries. And the salaries, I think we can agree, are still not at this level, those doctors, health professionals, nurses are leaving the country, and we're gonna keep them here by offering them a decent salary and, of course, other things, like good behavior, education or well-organized education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u111	Thank you very much for keeping time. I must state at this moment that at 17.55 this meeting will be adjourned, because as you agreed, the 22nd meeting will begin at 18 o'clock. So only at this moment, Mr Oldřich Černý, if he is here, I must say that I will have to interrupt you at 17.55. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u112	Thank you for the floor, I'm counting on it. [[Thank you.]] Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Government, the government has decided to shorten the payments for state insured persons by CZK 14 billion. The SPD movement does not agree with this step and therefore with the draft law on insurance against public health insurance. As stated in yesterday's article Health Log, according to KDU-ČSL's Chairman Marek's Výborný proposal to reduce payment for state insured persons will not jeopardise the availability, quality or scope of health care. And then there's the facts that show the exact opposite. At the beginning of February, a few weeks before the military conflict in Ukraine, Zdeněk Kabátek, Director of the General Health Insurance Company, said that the VZP is prepared to cover any higher deficit, which may arise by reducing payments for state insured persons, from reserves. However, it expects that part of the blackout can compensate for favourable economic developments. Again, I note that his statement came a few weeks before the start of the war in Ukraine. So talking now that the blackout will be offset by favourable economic developments is complete nonsense. I think we can all agree on that. The blackout will not be offset, as we know what the situation is now, what the forecasts are and what we are going to do. Therefore, I would expect that when the situation has changed so much over the past 2.5 months, the government's five-calice will either retreat from these plans or at least significantly mitigate them. Unfortunately, it hasn't happened yet. In addition, at the beginning of February, President Ladislav Friedrich said that by reducing payments for state insurance companies, the reserves of health insurance companies would almost be exhausted and the payments of the State would have to be increased next year. What does that mean? By reducing payments for state insured persons, the reserves that are already tense in view of the situation in Ukraine will be exhausted. Then what? Will there be health insurance companies with no reserves? For example, the Association of Outpatient Specialists, whose members are doctors who have their own private practice, responded to the government's plans prior to the outbreak of the crisis in Ukraine in February. This association was already literally on alert at the time. His chairman said at the time - I quote: "The state will be able to provide for its own facilities in a different way financially, while ambulances do not have that option. We will be back before 2019, when the Ministry of Health financially preferred state health service providers, while the offices of specialists grew more and more alive. This is a development that has not been foreseen during the conciliation procedure for this year, but the financial stability of providers and the quality and availability of care is beginning to threaten. Thus, the funds set up by the letter of payment for 2022 will not be sufficient. This concerns, in particular, all surgical disciplines, which increase the cost of consumer material, and the increase in energy prices is mainly seen in technical fields, such as cardiology or gastroenterology." End of quote. This was expressed by the President of the Association of Outpatient Specialists at a time when, for example, the price of petrol and diesel was slightly above 30 crowns. On 28 February, Zdeněk Kabátek, director of the General Health Insurance Company, assumed that the deficit of the insurance undertaking in connection with the planned freezing of payments for state insured persons would almost double, from the originally expected less than CZK 6 billion to 11. At that time, however, there was still a possibility of favourable economic development, as no one allowed the enormous consequences of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Since then, fuel and gas prices have increased by tens of percent. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian refugees came to our country, which this government proposal did not, of course, count on in February. It brings healthcare to the brink of its possibilities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u113	Ambassador, it's 5:55 p.m., I'd like to interrupt you. Your time, of course, will then be given again. [[- It's okay. Thank you for your attention.]] Before I interrupt this meeting at this moment, I would like to read two more apologies. Mr Milan Feranec apologizes between 18:00 and midnight for medical reasons, and then I apologize to Vice-President Věra Kovářová, today between 17:40 and 19.15 for family reasons. So at this point, the meeting is adjourned, and at 18 o'clock, we will begin the 22nd meeting when I will pass the proceedings on to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-000-000.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will now continue the adjourned 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The replacement cards and the apology of Members shall be as stated today at the 20th and 22nd meetings respectively. I will just add one more apology, which is between 17.30 and 18.15 for working reasons from President Alena Schillerová. I note that points 1, i.e. House printing 186 - supported sources of energy, first reading, and 5 - the proposal to end the status of pandemic emergency approved programmes were discussed at the 22nd meeting, so we will no longer discuss them. We will now proceed by discussing item number
