ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 10th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Before I welcome you, I'm going to ask you to move your cheer into the lobby. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] In order to record our participation, I will first sign you off and ask all of you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, notify me if anyone requests to issue a replacement card. Once again, I completely understand that after that difficult night comes a difficult morning, but noise still goes beyond normal customs. Please. Once again, I'm going to ask too much, knowing what we've been through, to keep the noise down in the room. Let us now approach that the meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure. - I'm really gonna ask for peace one more time. Thank you very much. - It convened the President of the Chamber of Deputies at the request of 46 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, February 9th. And now once again, I'm going to shut up a little bit... perfect, it's more peaceful here now, and we can proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Oldřich Černý and Mr Tom Philipp as the verifier of this meeting. I ask, does anyone else have a suggestion? At the same time, I am already gonging and summoning colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I don't see another suggestion. I have begun the vote on who will be the verifiers of our meeting. Who is Mr Oldřich Černý and Mr Tom Philipp's verifier? Who's against it? In voting number 1, 139 Members and Members were enrolled, for 135, against zero, so these verifiers were approved. We have therefore appointed Mr Oldřich Černý and Mr Tom Philipp to verify the 10th session of the Chamber of Deputies. I also say that, before the opening of the meeting, they asked to apologise for their failure to attend the negotiations by these Members - now there will be a number of them, and I will ask you once again, while I am reading this, to transfer the discussions to the lobby. Thank you very much. The Members apologize: Andrea Babišová - health reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek - health reasons, Ivan Jáč - health reasons, Lenka Knechtová - health reasons, Jiří Kobza - health reasons, Michael Kohajda - work reasons, Josef Kott - it was from 0.01 to 8 hours, i.e. previous meeting, without giving reason, it was necessary to load, Michal Kučera - health reasons, Jiří Mašek - health reasons, Lubomír Metnar - health reasons, Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš - without giving reason, Lucie Potůčková from 9.30 to 12 hours - working reasons, Petra Quittová - it was also from 0.01 hours to 9 hours, or a previous meeting - without stating reason, Jiří Strýček from 9.00 to 10 hours - health reasons, Ivo Vondrák again from 0.01 hours to 9 hours, last meeting - health reasons, Milan Wenzl - health reasons. These were the MPs. The members of the government apologize: Prime Minister Petr Fiala for foreign travel, Ministers Ivan Bartoš - working reasons, Martin Baxa from 9.00 to 11.00 - working reasons, Mikuláš Bek - working reasons, Jana Černochová - foreign travel, Anna Hubáčková from 9 to 12 hours - no reason given, Jan Lipavskýý - health reasons, Vít Rakušan from 0.01 to 6 hours, or last meeting again - working reasons, Michal Šalomoun - family reasons. Further, further apologies have yet to come, which we must deal with and become acquainted with. It is for Mr Igor Hendrych today between 3.00 and 3.30 apology due to illness, and for Mr Ondřej kolář from today's beginning of negotiations 9.00 to 9.10 because of the traffic collapse at the Castle - family reasons, and Mrs Renata Zajíčková between 9.00 and 10.30 - working reasons. Furthermore, Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek for the whole day for work reasons, Mr Pavel Staněk also for the whole day for work reasons, Minister Zdeněk Nekula for the whole day of the meeting, Minister Anna Hubáčková for the morning meeting and President of the House Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 9.00 to 10.00 for personal reasons. Well, that's an apology so far. We may proceed to the establishment of the agenda for this meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I would like to remind you - and once again I ask for a slight reduction of the noise in the hall, thank you - that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. Therefore, no change or addition to the programme can be proposed and the approved programme cannot be extended. I'm now looking around to see if there are priority rights. Madam President of the ANO club Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning for the second time, actually. We are meeting here at an emergency meeting initiated by the YES movement, given what government aid looks like until now, which we believe is inevitable. We have to deal with actually... I'll wait if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u3	Yes, I understand. Please, let's transfer the discussions to the foyer, allow a dignified performance. I'm going to ask the crowds to disband and transfer the discussions to the foyer. I'm begging you. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues. Madam President, you may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u4	Thank you very much. I know it's been a tough two days. I want to draw your attention to this, and you all know that, no matter what part of this room you're sitting in, we have two emergency situations to deal with. First, the aid to businesses affected by pandemics, which up to now has basically been zero in addition to the compensatory bonus imposed by our government, or the one that we have approved, our government, especially the compensatory bonus, has come up. Maybe I'm wondering, I didn't get the answer if he's gonna go on. Ended January 31st. And the second, much more fundamental question, is help with rising energy prices. In this respect, in my opinion, the government is doing very little. The help she presented clearly does not work, and judging by the increasing number of non-bank loans, it is necessary to admit that many people prefer to borrow money, and that is certainly not a good thing. Because the government is pushing them where they shouldn't be. After all, when I heard the numbers of how many people so far asked for extra immediate help, or a housing allowance, it was, if I'm not mistaken, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said about 20,000. I am, of course, glad that yesterday, after our pressure, the government finally introduced concrete aid to entrepreneurs, and because I do not want to be just critical at all costs, it is certainly worth thanking for this step. However, I cannot shake the impression that, on the one hand, it is unnecessary to be late, because in the end, you have used programs prepared by our government, the Ministry of Industry and Trade under the direction of former Minister Karel Havlíček, and so what we have been offering you all along, and meaninglessly for a long time, entrepreneurs and companies have been in doubt, which, given the current situation, is not a good signal and good situation for them. Unfortunately, I have to say that there was a situation here, which we and our movement predicted at the end of last year. The skyrocket price increase continues and is out of control. I don't really blame the government, unlike her, and I'm not saying that it could be high inflation, inflation is imported, but what I'm blaming you for is that you're not dealing with it and you're not helping people. From my point of view, absolutely incomprehensible. According to information provided by the Czech Statistical Office from this week, there was a year-on-year increase in the consumer price index in January this year by 9.9 %, which was 3.3 percentage points more than a month before, in December 2021. I'm sure these numbers are well-known to you, but I have to repeat them here in plenary because they are record numbers and dangerous. Indeed, almost 10 per cent has been the most since July 1998 and a higher monthly increase in inflation than between December 2021 and January 2022 has been recorded in its history only in January 1993 as a result of the introduction of VAT, which will come in the context of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will be gently prosaic. Another similarly dramatic increase was experienced by the Czech economy in 2008, and you will be surprised, but again as a result of the administrative change in the form of an increase in VAT. But today's inflation has different causes. It is so-called exogenous inflation, imported inflation, pandemic inflation. I'm afraid so. Most global economies report extreme values of price increases that we have not seen in the last decade. The rise in consumer prices by almost 10 percent compared to last January is an approach to the lower red zone border to so-called falling inflation. Of course, I could quote here what is volatile inflation, from the Great Economic Encyclopedia, but I'm just going to say one of these definitions. In the vast majority of cases, volatile inflation is a serious sign of economic instability, when the price system is failing as a tool for information and function of money as a preserver of values. Dear colleagues, let's be honest with each other. There is no doubt that the situation is serious and that the state must be unconditionally active in this situation. The main reason for the month-on-month increase in inflation in the Czech Republic, I would like to stress according to the data of the Czech Statistical Office, i.e. not only my personal opinion, was influenced by the return of VAT on electricity and natural gas to 21 percent of the zero rate, which I forgave by the General Sorry for November and December. Moreover, it is possible and likely that the increase in energy prices is not definitive. Even today, natural gas prices are increasing 21.5 percent year on year, electricity prices have skyrocketed by 18,8%, and heat and hot water prices have increased by 12 percent. This price increase puts a huge number of our households at risk when they have to apply for welfare benefits. But the path chosen by the Czech Government is unreasonable, inadequate and administratively complicated. We can't solve the whole social problem with the help of a few thousand households that most of those who need it can't even apply for because it's too complicated. The weirdest thing about this whole situation is that there is a solution that is administratively simple, fair to all participants and a solution that has already been approved. Our government has already offered a solution last year, when it proposed a general pardon for VAT on electricity and gas prices throughout the year 2022, by amending the VAT Act and reducing this rate from 21 to 0 percent. And I and the Members of our club stand firm for this decision. It's a journey that many countries have taken. But I feel that vanity has prevailed here. You pretend that whatever Babišův's government has prepared is wrong, even though it has undoubtedly worked. Instead, you're trying to come up with your own solutions, but they simply don't work. I did not have a historical tour at the beginning of my speech on my own purpose. We can use what caused inflation in 1993 and 2008 to our advantage. We know that VAT forgiveness reduced the inflation burden on Czech households in November and December, and we know from historical data that VAT can significantly shift price levels. Forgiveness of VAT for the benefit of our citizens is a reasonable step. The task of the state is not to tax everything that is possible unconditionally. The state is supposed to serve citizens in difficult situations, and difficult situations have arisen. And if, colleagues, you don't trust me as president of the opposition club, then let's inspire foreign experience. We were the first to forgive the VAT on energy for November and December. First. I issued a pardon on the authority of our government. But in the same or similar way that we propose, a number of other countries have gone. I would start with Poland, which reduced the VAT on fuel from 23 per cent to eight, VAT on basic food to zero per cent, VAT on gas also to zero and VAT on electricity was reduced to 5 per cent. Similarly, Belgium will reduce VAT to electricity from 21 to 6. Similar measures can be found in many other countries, such as Bulgaria, which has frozen electricity prices, Austria suspends the environmental tax and spends EUR 1.7 billion to mitigate the effects of rising electricity prices. France limits the increase in electricity prices and returns millions of euros. As well as Hungary regulates prices, Norway subsidises electricity bills, the Netherlands reduced energy taxes and Spain also reduced taxes. And today, a fresh morning in Croatia, a model like ours. However, this is only a incomplete list of countries that have followed a similar path that we proposed at the end of 2021. [[9.20 hours]] Let me make one more quote at the end, or the definition of poverty: "Poorness is a state of material distress. This means that people do not have enough resources to ensure their existence in a given society." The definition continues: "The solution of poverty depends on the possibilities and conditions of economic prosperity and on the ethical principles of each society. " I appeal to you again, the situation is serious. We have the possibilities and conditions of economic prosperity, we are the sixth least indebted economy in the European Union. On the other hand, in the surrounding landscapes, political representation deals with the current situation much more strongly. I can't believe our problems are in the ethical principles of our society. Let's do this better, we have the tools. Please get rid of vanity and re-submit the proposals of our government that you have withdrawn. Then we can really help people together. We are prepared otherwise if you do not, but we appeal to you, the proposals are prepared, your government has withdrawn them from the House of Deputies program. Otherwise, we have them prepared as parliamentary proposals and we are going to make them again and we are not going to stop talking about it, because there are not only 20,000 households in trouble who have applied for a housing allowance so far. Here is the problem of the whole company, entrepreneurs, businessmen and others who are, of course, the most vulnerable today and have the biggest problems. So please consider this and go back to more forceful aid, as is our example, following the pattern of our government, a number of European Union countries are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, Madam President. And now Mr. Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala movement is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u6	Good morning, everyone. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Fellow Members, I believe that this meeting, which has been convened by the YES movement, is extremely important, because the problem that is pouring on us with energy, with energy prices, will affect everyone and everything, both natural persons and legal persons. And I fear that if we remain inactive for some time in this situation, it may mean poverty in the Czech Republic, which may be comparable or even worse than we were before 1989. To talk about government aid to people affected by rising energy prices, I must, of course, start from describing the causes of these prices, with the fact that the astronomical rise in energy commodity prices linked to a series of failures of their suppliers and, above all, their overwhelming negative impact on Czech citizens, households and companies, in the SPD movement, is clearly the most significant socio-economic problem of the Czech Republic and its citizens. It's a problem that unfortunately won't go away, it's a problem that won't end tomorrow, not a month, not a year. That is why it is important to take it very seriously. And we've been drawing attention to this for a long time. But back to the causes of dramatically rising energy prices. Virtually all of them are associated with our membership of the European Union, or with some of its aspects, and with our government's unwillingness to defy them and to really start dealing with them. This includes, above all, our participation in the European Union's single energy market, our participation in a senseless and speculative system of trading in so-called emission allowances, namely the European ETS emissions trading system, and the approval of the previous and current Czech government with a crazy plan to reduce emissions and liquidate traditional energy sources, called Green Deal. But I'm gonna get to the emission allowance business, specifically. The current situation of high electricity, gas and energy prices therefore has several sources. It also includes shutting down nuclear and coal energy sources without equivalent compensation, because wind and photovoltaic sources of the nature of the matter are not their full replacement. Moreover, in certain annual and climate periods, their performance must be largely replaced by gas power plants, which leads to growth in gas consumption and, according to the law of supply and demand, to a significant increase in its price. In the countries of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, the further source of energy price growth is astronomical growth in the price of so-called emission allowances, which, in addition to the claimed means of pressure to reduce emissions, became mainly an instrument for investment and massive financial speculation. Basically, emission allowances have very little to do with the environment. For example, they invest in US pension funds, speculators and so on, and we and our industry feed these speculators and the various funds they invest in them. Once again, by pushing out coal sources of energy production, these allowances stimulate growth in consumption and gas prices, while another problem is that the increase in emission allowances prices increases not only the price of electricity produced from coal but also from gas. The price of emission allowances in the European Union is now just below EUR 100 per tonne of CO2, which, according to EU forecasts, was expected to be around EUR 26 in 2025 and around EUR 30 per tonne of CO2 in 2030. And so I ask, where did the comrades in Brussels make a mistake? By the way, since the beginning of last year, this is an increase of more than 200 percent. And compared to 2020, this is already a fourfold increase. However, not only gas price increases but also financial speculators contribute to these high prices of allowances. These allowances are freely negotiable, which is an absolute outrage with tragic consequences, as we see on the air. And we're not gonna be a part of this. After all, this is a crazy ideological regulation of unseen consequences. Emission allowances are a kind of modern-day indulgences of a green Euronian religion, with the European Union once again the highest responsibility for their high price, which is deliberately less and less each year issuing these allowances. The fact that there is a great deal of pressure in the European Union on the transition from long-term contracts for the purchase of gas to purchase on the so-called immediate market on the gas commodity exchange in Rotterdam also has a major impact on the rise in energy commodity prices. This leads to lower prices in the case of excess gas. However, the problem arises in the times of crisis that we are experiencing now. Responsible governments, such as Hungarian or Serbian, have resolved this in their own way. They concluded long-term, several-year gas supply contracts with Russian company Gazprom, thus guaranteeing their citizens several times the lower price of this commodity than it is and will be in the case of citizens of the Czech Republic. The decommissioning of nuclear and fossil resources and the ever-increasing reliance on so-called renewable wind and photovoltaic sources lead mainly to a lack of available power in the winter period and to a threat to the stability of the electricity network. I don't know if you know this, but such an example, for example, in Sweden, in Swedish national television last winter, moderators appeared and said that they mainly asked the ladies to stop washing and vacuuming in winter, when the temperature gets below minus 20 degrees, because there is a huge lack of electricity depending on the fact that Sweden also abolished its nuclear power plants. [[9.30 hours]] The fact that there is a great deal of pressure in the European Union on the transition from long-term contracts for the purchase of gas to the so-called immediate market, to the gas commodity exchange in Rotterdam also has a major impact on the rise in energy commodity prices. This leads to lower prices in the case of excess gas. However, the problem arises in the times of crisis that we are experiencing now. The decommissioning of nuclear and fossil resources, increasingly relying on so-called renewable wind photovoltaic sources, leads mainly in the winter period, which I have already said, to a lack of available power. Electricity consumption is also growing with a switch to heating using electricity, such as heat pumps, and the development of the European Union and its green plans supported in our opinion by senseless electromobility. The threat of blackout increases, by the way, and many experts warn against it. By moving from coal, cores to gas is also quite paradoxically contrary to the declared aims of European leaders significantly increases the dependence of European Union states on supplies from the Russian Federation. Also, rising gas and electricity prices can soon result in Europe's industry leaving at lower energy prices outside the European Union. High energy prices can lead to a decline in economic and living standards for the European and the Czech population, which we are primarily interested in, together with the flow of thousands of jobs. This can then result in the threat of social and political stability to society. That's a very serious matter. I think that we should or should definitely think about this, because the SPD has long said that this policy of the European Union and with it, of course, also the Czech governments can lead to the destruction of industry and poverty in the Czech Republic. And we say, "Wake up while there's still time." As for specific government aid to people affected by rising energy prices, it is not worth mentioning. There is no real, real help. And what doesn't exist at all is helping businessmen, entrepreneurs and Czech companies affected by rising energy prices, which is an absolutely incredible, cynical and tedious attitude, especially if we know that when electricity or gas collection is conducted in a so-called place of business, not in a private housing regime, it is not only a hypothetical and insufficient opportunity to apply for a housing contribution, but mainly that energy commodity prices are much higher for these demand points than housing properties and their current growth is already winding up for many entrepreneurs and lead to the disappearance of businesses, companies. The only measure that this government provides for aid to people associated with the rise in gas electricity prices are certain cosmetic adjustments in setting up the so-called housing contribution. Members of the SPD movement recently supported this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies, because any assistance in this situation is better than nothing. However, this does not mean that we consider these changes to be appropriate, and certainly not a comprehensive, complete or final form of aid to citizens, families and households affected by ever-increasing energy prices, and thus the overall cost of living and living at all. In its proposal, the government followed the proverbial course of least resistance when the citizens, whose housing costs increased enormously, basically put the employment office in line with a request for a housing allowance, with the fact that it may be a successful request, but in many cases probably not. Because the government has proposed a slight increase in the housing contribution by increasing the so-called normative housing costs, but the parameters for entitlement to it, i.e. the ratio of housing costs to total household income, which would be really important, have not been adjusted, so in this case it has not reduced at all. Working citizens have a difficult, even impossible approach to this contribution compared to those who are not working, and those who are not working, I do not mean the elderly and the disabled. As well as a very difficult approach to this contribution, citizens living in their own properties, in their own apartments or houses, especially in the countryside, but also those who live in cooperative apartments. An enormous administrative complexity is also a big problem here. Processing of applications for housing allowance, content and time, as well as the fact that according to a professional and interesting study recently published on the server listzpravy.cz many persons who would have a legal claim for this contribution do not even know it exists. This study estimates that there are up to two thirds of citizens with this claim, i.e. about 300,000 people, and also mainly seniors. This is confirmed by the latest data of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic, which administers the housing allowance and which states that it has received 17 000 new applications from the beginning of the year until 4 February, especially in connection with the increase in energy prices. It is clear that this unfortunate situation concerns more than hundreds of thousands of our citizens or households. We estimate this to be up to 700,000 citizens and households. As far as our seniors are concerned, the system solution instead of referring to their humiliating and complex procedure for submitting an application for social benefits to increase prices not only by energy in relation to this group of our fellow citizens would be the introduction of a minimum old-age pension of roughly the current minimum wage, which is the long-term objective and long-term proposal of the SPD movement. [[and]] It is quite obvious that the primary responsibility for the current high prices of energy commodities is clearly the government of the Czech Republic. The Government as a supreme state body and a supreme executive institution of the State. Therefore, this government should also immediately start to act and take concrete steps to reduce energy prices by the instruments at its disposal. Indeed, it can be inspired in this area in the near foreign countries, in the states of the Visegrad Four, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary, which have already taken such steps in the energy sector for the benefit of their citizens. I fear that this government will not have the political courage to take such action. And then there will be - now, of course, I say it ironically - there will be nothing left for Czech citizens but to move to Slovakia, Poland or Hungary. Through the Energy Regulatory Authority, the government should immediately reduce regulated components of electricity and gas prices, which account for about half of the total price of these commodities for consumers, and not increase them contrary to any elementary logic, as has recently happened in our country. Furthermore, the government should, in a simple and clear way, help citizens and companies that are now most affected by energy prices. For example, by fully paying energy supplies to those citizens, households and firms who so request, whose suppliers of Bohemia Energy energy and, similarly, recently discontinued their activities from one day to the next, those consumers had to switch to the so-called last instance supplier under extremely disadvantageous financial conditions. The demise and termination of the activities of some of these energy suppliers, licensed by the State in the past and enabled them to make fairytale profits for years, and the failure of these suppliers to comply with valid contracts with citizens and companies is therefore the fault and responsibility of the State. And it should remedy the damage resulting from this and the resources spent then, in the course of various bankruptcy proceedings, maybe enforce on these unreliable suppliers. [[9.40 hours]] High energy prices in the Czech Republic are also, and this is relatively little known, involved in the electricity tax and natural gas tax introduced here on 1 January 2008. And you know why? On the basis of the conditions of membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. The electricity tax rate for 2022 is 28 crowns and 30 cents per megawatt hour and is part of the price of services, as is the case with value added tax. Natural gas tax is a mandatory component of the price of this commodity. This is a gas tax for natural and legal persons who are suppliers or consumers of natural gas. According to the purpose to which the gas is supplied, the rate of that tax is then fixed. The basis for calculating the amount of this tax is the amount of gas in one megawatt hour, called incinerator heat. The natural gas tax paid by the final consumer is now at 30 crowns and 60 cents per megawatt hour. The natural gas tax concerns legal and entrepreneurial natural persons. So these are taxes that are relatively hard and, above all, unnecessarily burdening our businessmen and entrepreneurs and reducing their competitiveness, and they are taxes imposed on us by the European Union. And now something about the foreign experience of solving high electricity and gas prices. This week, the Slovak Government agreed with the largest electricity producer in the country, the Slovak Power Plant, to supply electricity at prices which are significantly lower than the prices on the market. It means that it stopped supplying some of the energy produced by Slovak power plants on the commodity exchange and sold the energy directly to Slovak citizens. Slovak families and households should thus save about a billion euros in total in their electricity accounts over the next three years, i.e. roughly CZK 25 billion. It's called help. The average savings on the household will be at EUR 500, i.e. over CZK 12,000. In turn, the Hungarian government granted thousands of small businesses and companies access to cheaper electricity and at the same time decided to set a temporary ceiling on fuel prices. So far, this is true for businesses with ten or less employees. Because, of course, they'll be the first to be threatened. Orbánův's government has already reduced electricity and gas prices for households, not for the first time. Of course, we have also proposed such a law in the Chamber of Deputies on the ceiling of energy prices. But because the government would have to defy the European Union, of course, this law did not come to plenary, nor was it ever discussed for certainty. And a few years ago, in an effort to ensure cheaper energy, Hungary was nationalised by several distribution companies, and reduced prices for households have remained in force ever since. Moreover, since February this year, the Hungarian government has reduced prices of six basic foods, namely flour, sugar, sunflower oil, milk, pork and chicken, which must fall nationwide to the level of mid-October last year, and has introduced a price ceiling not only on energy and fuel, but also on mortgage credit rates. Something about the groceries. The food crisis is something that awaits us. Something that depends on imports, of course, on the lack of self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic on food and also, of course, on energy prices. So we too, unfortunately, ironically say, can look forward to rising food prices, and again the Czech government is not doing anything about it. Like she didn't see it coming, like she didn't know it, like nothing was happening. In turn, the Polish government temporarily reduced VAT on fuel by 15 percentage points, or on food, from 5% to zero. Six months so far. The Polish Government has also reduced the energy tax to four months. And we now drive, especially people from Náchod, people who live in Polish borderlands, go shopping for fuel and food to Polish shops, and the Czech government can do nothing but send customs officers to the border to see if they're taking more bread or a few rolls more from Poland, instead of solving the problems that we have here with food and energy and fuel. But most importantly, Poland was the only one who disagreed with the Green Deal agreement. It negotiated an exemption for the production of energy from its own coal resources, did not join the commitment to achieving so-called carbon neutrality by 2050, and also gained the promise of huge financial subsidies from EU funds. Literally a few days ago, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenković presented a package of measures that he intends to contribute to reducing the effects of energy increases. The main point of the package is a significant reduction in VAT on gas and electricity. The new measures in the total value of almost 15.5 billion crowns are focused on all Croatians. I remember, and it was not long ago that such a proposal to reduce VAT was also here in the Chamber of Deputies, but the government said that the European Union would not allow it, so the VAT reduction did not take place. At the same time, in Croatia, VAT is reduced to 5% for basic foods, such as meat, eggs, fruit, vegetables, butter, edible oils and fats. How can we face all the threats I've described? In our home, primarily through the accelerated construction of other nuclear units in Dukovany and Temelín, while the decommissioning of coal resources should be conditional upon the completion of the construction of their corresponding replacement, not on some date that the European Union will tell us. Let's not forget that the construction of those two blocks in Dukovany is just an exchange for those who end their activities in 2035 because their operational capabilities will end and they need to be replaced for the new ones. So we're not gonna get any new energy, we're just gonna trade the old ones for the new ones. We need to keep building. The Czech Republic will never be dependent on renewable resources. We'll just be addicted, our only chance in the future is core and gas. And in my opinion, we need to start planning to build more blocks in Temelín immediately. The decommissioning of resources should be conditional upon the completion of the construction of their corresponding compensation regardless of Green Deal; the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens must come first. And we'll see if the government thinks about that. Whether the interests of the European Union or the citizens of the Czech Republic will come first. Within the European Union, we must insist that, in a situation where high electricity prices arise generally outside the territory of the Czech Republic and especially with our German neighbours, the social and economic stability of a large part of Czech households in our country is threatened. We will sell Czech electricity directly to Czech citizens, not via the Leipzig Stock Exchange. It's something I think is most important. We can't produce electricity for five kroner, send it to the Lip Stock Exchange and buy it back for fifty, for a hundred kroner. We must do the same as the Slovák. And if you don't have the guts to do it, say it and get out of here! It is a defense against our rich and economically strong neighbor, who has not secured enough energy resources, by which I mean, of course, Germany, overpaying Czech citizens and the Czech industry for the purchase of electricity produced in the Czech Republic. Yeah, why wouldn't he shut down the power plants if we made it very cheap for them? Another important point is leaving the emission allowance trading system because negotiating its meaningful reform is virtually impossible. Again, it's practically impossible. We have to act, and fast. High prices of energy commodities are threatened mainly by low-income working groups of citizens and also by our industry, especially the more energy-intensive ones. We have to rely exclusively on ourselves, no one on the outside can help us. On the contrary, the new German government coalition wants to further strengthen its transition from coal and core to renewable resources and electromobility. They're ideological fools. It is so highly unlikely that the European Union will respond rationally to the present situation. The only sensible path seems to be: the rapid restoration of Czech energy sovereignty, self-sufficiency and security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. And now Minister Marian Jurečka is in the order of priority rights, then President Tomio Okamura can prepare himself and then the Minister again, namely Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, colleagues. I am very happy to speak on this subject, because I think that the subject is really very topical. It is necessary to talk about it and it is also necessary to say what the reasons are, why the situation is what it is, what it could be done for it and what it is done for it and how we can help people in the Czech Republic, but also companies to cope with the energy crisis, its effects on households and businesses. I will begin with the current part, and therefore a certain summary of what our government has been actively doing since the beginning of its mandate on this matter and what has already been done and what is still to be done. I will start by saying that since the appointment of 17 December last year we have really been very active in how to help households in the Czech Republic. And we have come to this by really wanting to help directly specific people, households in the Czech Republic who really need this help. Mrs Schillerová here spoke about what the government proposed, in which she was the finance minister, in the context of the forgiveness or reduction of VAT or in the forgiveness of part of the green bonus. It is only necessary to mention with this form of help that those who really have the problem offer them 20 percent of the solution. Just whether you lower or forgive someone's VAT is a maximum solution of 21 percent, and the state, the taxpayer would be burdened with a revenue loss of some 25, maybe up to 40 billion crowns a year. We are in a situation where, unfortunately, the state register is empty, debt over the last two years is more than CZK 836 billion. We're gonna have to pay for all of this someday. Yes, it is argued by covid here, but it should be recalled that the covido aid, the covido measures went to less than half of that amount compared to other countries, where Austria, for example, when it was in debt in 2020, really also in debt, so the direct aid to companies, to households, it gave Austria 75 percent of the debt. It wasn't even half of us. So it needs to be taken into account that we are simply not in the economic condition and situation so that we can say, and I have to say that every politician, every politician would wish to be the bearer of good news and in a situation where there would be a surplus budget, come and say: citizens, we will leave you with an extra CZK 20, 30, 40 billion, because we can afford it and in the future none of you or your children will have to pay for it. We need to be clear when helping out what money we are helping out of. It's money we have to borrow. We are in a situation where, after we have taken over this country as a new government, 99 per cent of all revenue to the state budget is automatically committed to mandatorial spending. Whatever we want to do over these mandatory expenses, we are doing on the debt of us and our children, future taxpayers. And the debt service isn't free. The debt service costs are rising, this year it will be an additional CZK 5 billion. That needs to be actually said, really tell people. There is no government budget money, it is all taxpayers' money in the Czech Republic. It's the money that every one of them buys, every payday they make to that state budget. That's why we said in this situation, we don't want to spin the debt spiral anymore, which, by the way, contributed to the last government's spin of inflation in the Czech Republic. And we said, we want to go the way of the address, specific help. That is why, during the three weeks of January - I also want to thank the opposition - in cooperation, without obstruction with the opposition, we have made an amendment to the Act on State Social Support, where we have expanded the range of potential beneficiaries of this form of support and increased the limits that will allow greater financial support to the population, which will allow greater financial support for the residents, households, for the specific address aid that they can apply for as part of their housing allowance. If the aid is not enough in the form of a housing allowance, then there are two other institutes, and that is in specific housing supplement schemes and extraordinary immediate assistance. I would just like to briefly sum up here what we already know today, and that is the number of new applications that have been submitted, and I would remind you that these were the applications that have been made in the last 2.5 weeks, because the amendment to the law with the amended standards came into effect on 28 January, and then the citizens, in particular, made the applications, because they could already apply on the basis of the higher standard. And that summary is that it is more than 21,000 newly submitted applications for those roughly 140,000 that were paid in January, and the average amount of aid, the housing allowance, for January is CZK 3 798. This needs to be perceived and seen that we are trying to do our utmost to do this in cooperation with many other subjects, so that people can get information about where, in what form and what it takes, they could ask for the housing allowance. [[to:]] [[He's showing the material.]] I will also use here again to sum up the information where it is possible to turn, whether by electronic means or by telephone to a free line, and, of course, physically to the contact point of the employment offices. Yes, I'm aware that everything is not as simple and optimal as you would imagine, but I have to say that if you look at our website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs today, there is a second bookmark where you get the basic information, and you can also model on the calculator that is done to do it, whether you can help that person through the housing allowance and to what extent. Just fill in a few simple data, residence, the number of people in the household, what income he has, what the cost of living is, and he gets an indicative amount, which he should then get. Yes, I'm not thrilled that the system doesn't work ideally enough to take data about people from the population register and so on, but I inherited the status, for the previous eight years, when politicians from social democracy were at the resort, and unfortunately here I apologize to the citizens of the Czech Republic, taxpayers, that the system of stringing zeros and ones, i.e. the flow of data between systems, is simply not set up, and even if people fill the web portal with data and the necessary attachments into the application, then eventually the official or clerk at the offices of work has to print it out and rewrite it into the system, because just the zeros and ones can't migrate there. That's something I definitely want to work on, I take it as a quick and serious challenge to do some form of a provisional solution to the machine processing of this data, but we have to deal with that. Of course, we are still looking for ways based on comments from the public, and I also see what colleagues from other political parties are saying, both in the current system and in the current legislation, to simplify the system of support and administration. We're working on it, I believe we can still move on with this thing. What is important is that we expect a huge increase from the applicants, especially during February, March to April, when the people who finally leave the suppliers of the last instance will have to complete the billing, it is now more than 30,000 people who remain there, and of course those who have received the new contracts, new tariffs, and they will need help with the payment. We're working on it. This week we have an agreement with the suppliers of the last instance in the sense that we will use the legislative regulation that legislation gives us, and we will address specifically physically those customers who are with the suppliers of the last instance, because they are running short on the deadline, it will be over by mid-April, they can no longer be there than those six months, and we are working to target them, specifically, personally address them so that they do not get into trouble, that they will be disconnected. I hereby appeal, appeal, to all those who are still with the supplier of the last instance today and have not done so by moving and having a contract with the new supplier or being in standard mode. [[10.00 hours]] So that's a summary now of the things that have happened. Of course, it is very important for us - and here I am happy for all the synergies, support, the media and some of you, colleagues and colleagues who share the form of help on social networks to communicate with people - so that people can get the information where and how they can request that support. We're active in this matter, we've made a call through the employment offices to the clients that the employment offices have. We are now starting by sending out payouts, payments, new pensions, so on behalf of all pension eaters in the Czech Republic, information about where, what form they can turn and what form they can expect. Which is about three million people somewhere. Furthermore, in February, after agreement with the Czech Post, we made contact with all the households receiving SIPO, so they received the information. We also work with social networks and with advertising. We see the data on our online calculator, when more than 280,000 people took advantage of the calculator. So they also have this information that in some way they've already modulated what form of help they might possibly get. We also offer a simple form that people can fill out from the point of view of authority so that those who have a problem in any way with filling in, filing the application can give it to, for example, their children, grandchildren. We're also trying to find the client approach in this. These are all things that run. We're trying to make sure that information gets to people repeatedly so they don't really worry, they don't have any shame, shame, but just when they're having trouble paying for it, so they can use the support and the form they've been chosen. We're not limited to any financial volume here. Clearly, as a government, we have said to everyone, everyone who needs the support and help, so we will provide it. This is really important for us and we are doing our best to make this happen in cooperation with municipalities, cities. Many mayors, despite their colleagues in those cities and magistrates, are actively trying to reach out to those citizens who need help. The information went to all the towns and villages, including the information leaflets. So much for the current agenda that really works and runs at this point and these days. Maybe I can get to the medium- and long-term solution, too. It is, of course, important to us -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u9	Yes, Minister, I think there's been some peace in the hall. But of course I'll ask my colleagues to stay in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. Of course, it is important for us that these people are able to take such measures in their homes that they can reduce (?) These energy savings, for example, can be secured by another energy source. That is why I also approached the Minister of the Environment on how to adjust the subsidy conditions and bring them closer to people who today, for example, are applicants for a housing allowance, so that even low-income households, households who have a problem reaching the normal conditions of grant titles, so that we look for ways to adjust the conditions, how to improve co-financing, so that these people have a chance to really get into the situation of having the house warmed up, will have photovoltaics on the roof in the future, take advantage of a heat pump. There's a point to this. Long-term, not to contribute a small amount to these people every month, but to find a clear, long-term, meaningful solution for them. This means that they themselves are more energy-sufficient, so that they reduce the long-term cost of their energy needs in their homes or apartments. That's some way we'd like to make more use of and drive more. I will then allow myself to comment on some of the critical remarks that were made here. It is a great damage - and I was a member of the economic committee during the last parliamentary term - that two and a half years were here waiting for a big amendment to the Energy Act, which would really better address the issue of supervision of the energy market, which would be a kind of insurance and prevention. So that what happened last fall didn't happen. I think it's a shame this time has been wasted here. It was planned, the novel was to be made. I understand covid's here. I hope we can catch up on this debt from the past. It is also worth recalling that over the last four years, the promotion of renewable resources has not been more effective for a wide range of households. If you look at how many of these households have been supported, it's hundreds a year. This ambition is supposed to be that we're really gonna give the people who have roofs, facades where the photovoltaics can be, so they can be there. In order not to be the privilege of the rich, the privileges of those who, as they say, just run out, stomp out, but really for a wide range of households in the Czech Republic, were attainable photovoltaics, were achievable renewable resources under reasonable conditions in order to prove the potential that is in the Czech Republic to make better use of these households. So I'm sure that's what we're going to try to do. It's in the government's programming statement. The government has in its programming statement the things that relate to the transparent, say, safer energy market. Of course, we have repeatedly discussed this with the government. Even the Prime Minister sees the importance of seeking this solution not only at national level but also at European Union level. Since energy security and price availability of energy are an extremely important thing for us not to be a vassal as the European Union, as the Czech Republic operates safely. These things will certainly be strategic issues not only in national but also in foreign policy. Because here we have many moments to learn from and not to repeat the mistakes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. President Tomio Okamura is now in office. Then, Minister Jozef Síkela, and I perceive, I note that President Andrej Babiš then reports with priority rights. So many summary sequences. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, an extraordinary House meeting has been convened today to discuss aid to people affected by rising energy prices and support to business operators in relation to the occurrence of coronavirus. [[Support?]] For the SPD, we demand that the five-calice government of Petr Fiala reduces people's electricity, energy, fuel, and food model Poland, Hungary and Slovakia. The Fialův Coalition - ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN - has long opposed these problems. The government did not introduce any plan of measures against inflation, rising energy and food prices. The governments of Hungary, Poland and Slovakia were able to find effective help in time. From 1 February to 6 months, the Polish Government has introduced a zero rate of VAT for basic foodstuffs. Moreover, from February to July, the zero tax rate is also due to artificial fertilisers, the price of which also has a direct effect on food prices. In Hungary, interest rates on mortgages have been temporarily frozen and fuel prices and prices for certain basic foods have been set. This, according to the SPD, is a way to help citizens avoid shopping in Poland. Decent and working citizens have to pay higher taxes for the government, but inadaptables continue to receive unaddressed social benefits for almost everything. This SPD system rejects. And on top of that, over and over again, there's this question that I still don't get an answer to. [[10.10 hours]] Petr Fiala's government has been in power for several weeks, but in fact, they have had a majority in the House for four months, so that none of them has been prevented, their Members, from putting forward parliamentary proposals before the Government's trust, and we have been able to discuss the solution of the auction. But this government has not submitted anything to the citizens. You have no solution for increasing energy, food and fuel in the Czech Republic. Because of the government of Petr Fiala and this five-calice, which is holding up laws such as the pandemic law, and is delaying citizens and making lives more expensive, because, in the meantime, instead of the government dealing with price increases, people have more and more bills, so this government directly contributes to the fact that you are pulling money out of people's pockets for nothing. And here again, I'm comparing it to the Polish, Hungarian and newly Slovak government. This means that this government's inability to help people solve the price increase in any way, which is already striking in the eyes even when compared to the countries of the Visegrad Four, even with the countries in our region. You guys should say really honestly, and I'm already challenging you here repeatedly, you should say that you don't want to deal with the expensive, you don't want to help citizens or you don't have a solution to the expensive. But that's for immediate resignation. Because people don't have time to wait for an incompetent government that doesn't even support its own senators in the Senate. So it's not even certain if you can promote your own proposals. We saw it here this morning, when around 3:00 a.m., we were supposed to vote on the government pandemic law that you put in a legislative emergency, which means you said you were rushing it, which means at the cost of counter-constitutional negotiations in a legislative emergency, you submitted it. Well, when the vote was finally due this morning at three o'clock, you found out that you didn't have enough of your government MPs to outvote the Senate veto. There were 97 of you, and you needed 101 MPs to vote over the Senate veto. And you didn't have them here. That means, that's an incredible bluff, because your government MPs just didn't come to work. That's the second time it's happened. That means, you're so expensive to make the House work, it's an incredible situation that you're going to bring in a law in a legislative emergency, and then, when it comes to x-hours voting, we can't vote on it because your MPs didn't come to work and you found out that you don't have the majority of 101 needed here, and that's why you suggested we postpone the vote until Friday at one o'clock. The problem was - I suggested here that the pandemic law be voted on as planned. Now. To vote on it right away, but you didn't want to vote right away. So if anyone here responds to me, it's gonna be lies and excuses for excuses, because I proposed to vote right away, it could have been voted right away, but you didn't want to vote right away, because you didn't have enough Members here. And so it's the price increase, so it's the solution to energy prices, food and fuel. It's another failure to fail, and it's paid hard for by all citizens. But the tragedy is that because of your government, the SPD voters, who have had enough for this failure of yours to solve anything for the citizens of the Czech Republic, are already getting sick of it. They're getting sick of it. And I would really like to remind you from this point of view that Prime Minister Petr Fiala promised in the media in December that by the end of December, you would present a plan to resolve the increase in energy in the Czech Republic. Your government didn't introduce anything. We've got half of February, two months gone by, that's fine with you, because because of this five-calice, you've increased your politicians' salaries by six percent, so where would you be in a hurry? The problem is that you only make people's lives more expensive. They find expensive electric bills, gas bills, but there's no help. Nothing. And instead of being here to deal with the government coalition's price increases, and to solve it mainly, it solved the price increases, as concrete steps are already being taken, as I said, the country around us, so instead, you're pushing the pandemic law through as a priority here. But when the vote was due, you didn't come back to work, again, repeatedly, because it's been repeated in the construction law, when it was Friday afternoon, we all remember it, in January, and since your five-wheelers had already gone home, there was little of you here, and the opposition overruled you. You don't want to work at all. You guys are just, your government MPs have gone to sleep, they're going to get laid, they're probably gonna get laid and they're not gonna sleep until Friday, 13 o'clock, so your law that you're pushing through in a legislative emergency, so suddenly your law isn't rushing anymore, and suddenly you're in a hurry, so it's okay to vote in quotes or in a day because your MPs aren't here, they just wanted to go home. So this is really a terrible thing. It's a terrible thing. And the way you guys are paying off the House's work here. You are not only expensive to the work of the House, you are expensive to all citizens of the Czech Republic. [[There's a call from the Coalition Members, banging on the benches, applause]] Well, yes, are you applauding the fact that you've made one extra Vice-President of the House for CZK 20 million for the term of office? The whole Republic knows that you're overpriced by the House's work. [[Noise and applause from members of the coalition.]] Isn't that what it is?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u13	Please don't shout.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u14	Because of your bill, virtually. Because of your non-proposal, because you didn't do anything, the government's five-calice has increased the salaries of politicians by six percent! So you've applauded yourself. In a huge way, you are also overestimating the House's work and rejecting the SPD's proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term as well. I mean, since I was 1. On the 1st of this year, as of 1 January, politicians' salaries increased by 6 percent due to government five-calice. The whole nation knows, and you're still laughing about it, which everyone heard. You're laughing at the citizens' faces. It's a good thing you applauded and laughed, laughed at the citizens in the face completely, everyone heard it, for raising your own salaries, and laughing at the citizens in the face. It's incredible behavior completely, it's really incredible arrogance, it's incredibly high with power. And I think it's totally unbelievable. And it's no wonder that Petr Fiala's government is already down to preferences, which we've also seen on the Nova news server that you're already down to 26 percent that people believe you, which is really a bad result from my point of view a few weeks after the election. But the downward trend needs to be named here, we need to talk about it, about how government confidence is falling. I don't blame it, because people are getting more and more expensive bills, food is getting more expensive, and you're adding three new ministerial posts from 15 to 18 to their secretariats now in the state budget, you're separating tens of millions of extra crowns for yourself, you're accepting for that service, for those secretariats, for those three new, unnecessary ministers of 70 other workers, people see it, and yet you're not helping decent people at all. That's pretty obvious. But again, I want to stop at the moment you laughed at the citizens, and it was out loud when I said that because of your coalition, because you guys added, because of you, the politicians' salary went up by 6%, that you rejected the SPD proposal to freeze politicians' salaries. Like the arrogance of even being able to laugh out loud, that's a really crazy thing to do. [[10.20 hours]] And I've heard some arguments about how much it costs to have an hour of House meetings. May I ask, if anyone would like to draw it, how much does freedom and democracy cost for ten million citizens of the Czech Republic? Would anyone quantify that? And I will answer for myself in advance. Even if I am alone here in this House, I will fight against everyone for freedom and democracy in the Czech Republic. For me, it's the maximum possible value. And if you're promoting a totalitarian pandemic law here, you need to do everything you can to make a government that wants to control people from March 1st and limit them to more and more freedoms in a phase where everything is loosening up here, quarantines are shut down, hospitals are overwhelmed to prevent it. Here, some members of the government coalition put on a bowl of scales the cost of the House's work, and on the second bowl of weights they give freedom and democracy. This also shows extraordinary, extraordinary arrogance! But it's not even about the House class. You're costing the House billions. Billions of crowns! Because you're the reason the state budget is here, and that's what we're discussing tomorrow, Friday, mid-February, we're talking about the state budget for this year! In the middle of February 2022, we are discussing the state budget for 2022. I mean, because of you, they don't have billions to invest in different authorities. We need to invest from the crisis. You stopped the money. Because of your government, because of your incompetence, you have robbed the promised money of firefighters, police officers, social services workers, soldiers, workers of the labour office, and you have done more work, as we know, to the workers of other necessary professions. You robbed them of money. Yes, that government of yours really costs billions, but all the citizens you pulled out of their pockets. So this crazy, horrible government, it's never really been here before, and I'm not surprised your preferences are falling. And now I've heard some crazy talk, the House's hour is CZK 700,000. It's all because of you, too. You have a majority here, you have a majority of 108 Members, you can vote for any program at the House meeting here, but you have decided that instead of dealing with the expensive citizens and, on the contrary, reducing citizens' costs, making their lives cheaper and helping them, you have decided that your priority here will be the pandemic law, which you want to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens. And we really can't hear from the SPD that freedom and democracy can be exchanged for money. This is the typical thinking of the ODS coalition, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates. Freedom for money. Even for bribes? Indeed, as we know, 16 years in prison now threatens ODS politicians in the ROP Northwest case in the Ústí Region for stealing billions of subsidies. That's why I don't know exactly what you mean. I guess you're used to dealing with freedom and democracy for money. But you can never handle that and you can't. Freedom and democracy are inviolable and citizens have the right to do so. That is why someone here has fallen to such a low level, and he was an excellent MP from KDU-ČSL, comparing the House's hours of work with restrictions, with a total reduction in the freedom and rights of ten million citizens of the Czech Republic, while the one who wants to limit the rights and freedom is the very government five-wheeler that he represents, we have fallen very low. Extremely low! And I'm starting to wonder if anybody in the government coalition could even be talking about some kind of democracy. So these cheap arguments, this nonsense, this slapping or mixing apples with pears and slapping on the fifth over the ninth, that doesn't really apply to me, and not to our SPD MPs, nor to our voters. We have logical thinking and don't mix apples and pears here. If you mix them up like this, I'll always go to the microphone and explain how it really is, because these special-purpose scrambles, when the government coalition is in disarray, because even your own senators have already rejected your pandemic paquilas, and yet it's a hard button here, I think it's quite enough. But the more you go to the microphone, the more we react. And I am not resisting any direct political confrontation. Of course, if it's on an opinion level. Of course, I'm resisting the confrontation some government politicians are setting up. I was talking about it here yesterday, as Mayor Martin Straka threatened me, the head of the Sokol Hospital, who suggested that someone put cyanide in my water to kill me and poison me. There's already a criminal report, of course, I've already informed Minister Rakušan, and I've already seen an article on the Internet today that he's already playing down his remarks, but I wouldn't want to get under the hand of the Chief of Sokol Hospital associated with the TOP 09, running for the TOP 09. Yes, he ran for TOP 09, we all know that. So I'd hate to get in touch with some extremists and some extremist parties who have such candidates. And the interesting thing is that I have not heard any condemnation of this man, the verbal condemnation of this man from the mouth of the representatives of the government coalition. That's what I was gonna say. Whoever went to the mic to say yes, this TOP 09 candidate is bad, this head of Sokol Hospital is bad, he shouldn't have said that at all. And I really would never want to get my hands on a doctor who threatens people to put cyanide in their drink. So, of course, we are also giving an incentive to the Czech Medical Chamber on this doctor, there is also a criminal announcement already, the Minister of the Interior Rakušan knows about it too, because the government coalition can't stand up to it. Here, the chairman of the TOP 09 club, Mr. Jan Jakob, usually moves towards the microphone, and the interesting thing is that when he is to condemn the TOP 09 candidate to the local council, suddenly he is silent and doesn't want to say that they had the wrong candidate, that they have an extremist there, and that is obviously a big problem. Otherwise, I'm glad there's been a debate going on about the threats to politicians' homes. But again, I did not hear from the government coalition to move yesterday's debate, condemning the behaviour of Mr. TOP 09 Mr. Ondřej Kolář, because, as I said here yesterday, this gentleman, whom I do not know any further, deliberately took a picture before my residence, put it on social networks to turn citizens against me in my hometown. So I would never have thought of taking pictures before the residence of a politician, even if you were from any side, and putting it on social media to turn people against you. And I would never have thought of your private property hanging up some of your private items, specifically this TOP 09 Member was hanging a SPOLU tag there. I don't understand why someone's hanging some of their private stuff on my private property that I don't want to have in there at all. Is this some new culture of government politicians that you're going to go to people's private property and hang some brands? Probably to mark them, who's with you and who's against you? It's been here in history, marking political enemies and publicly defaming them and turning people against them. Yes, that was for Nazism in Germany. But you could really let those manners go. Of course, looking at Mr Výborný, by your means, I will leave the history this time, which concerns the people's people, because I would have left the subject directly. So I wanted to say this at the outset, what are the priorities of the government coalition. They are strange priorities, and now the public will see it, and all citizens will see it in a moment, that the government will not deal with it, or will not solve the expensive for citizens. I am already telling you this now, dear citizens, the government will not solve the increase in energy and food prices in the Czech Republic. It won't! You'll all see because they don't want to solve it. They won't solve it because they don't want to solve it. And he can't figure it out. But what's going to happen here instead of solving the auction will be a correspondence option - another priority of the government's five-wheeler. Because as their preferences go down, they want to change the electoral law because they're afraid they're gonna fail next time, so they want to manipulate, open up the possibility of manipulation and fraud in elections. First in the presidential election, then in the election to the House. [[10.30 hours]] So, the priority isn't to deal with the expensive and the expensive, and I'm asking you not to have any excuses, and I'm going to ask you all the time, not that in a partial way you're going to do something about the expensive, like you haven't done anything yet, and you haven't even introduced the plan, like the Prime Minister promised by the end of December, but I want you to figure it out completely, and I want you to figure it out completely. Because you promised you had a solution, a little illusionary solution, I had to laugh a little bit at the naivety of Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who, as you remember, said on television, was about a month, month and half, that the solution would be the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the European Union in the second half of the year. Yes, that's a quote he said on TV. I reacted to it on the air. So that is a fatal illusion, and this statement by Prime Minister Fiala means only another increase in energy for citizens in the Czech Republic. I am curious to see how the Czech Presidency will resolve the increase in energy in the Czech Republic. It won't. It's a lie again, it's a false promise, it's the naivety of this government. So, of course, it's completely fatal, and unfortunately, your government is pulling money out of their pockets every month, even now, any minute now, you're pulling more and more unnecessary money out of their pockets. Your government is just free of charge. That's a distinctive name. So the result of your activity is that Czech citizens, and you all know it, but the government coalition is silent about it, but it doesn't shut up, so you even took concrete steps, so they started to go shopping to Poland because Poland reduced, introduced a zero tax, tax rate of VAT for basic foods. There's cheaper fuel. So the Czech citizens, the citizens of the Czech Republic, because of this government of Petr Fiala, the five-calibres, the five-blinds, as people call it, although I hear more often in public space that you have been nicknamed as a weepy government or a whiny government, because you always complain that you can't enforce anything at all, while it's just the inability of people like Marek the Výborný of KDU-ČSL, who squeals hatefully here, and now you're either a professional politician and you know how to deal with it, or you're like a little boy somewhere in the sand and you just stomp on your feet, that if he's not around, we're not really in the grown-up world, we're not here in kindergarten school, so either you're a professional politician and you can act and you can deal with compromises, or you're like a little boy somewhere in the sand and you're just stomping your foot that if he's not around, we're not around your way, so obviously, well, I just wanted to say, but it's your business. So the problem is that the result of your government's inactivity, the result of your government's inactivity, is that Czech citizens started to go shopping in Poland. This means the Czech citizen, rather than the government working on the income of Czech citizens, to return to the economy and to the basic economic rules that surprises me that the government does not understand at all, instead of the income of Czech citizens who have in their wages, wages and profits, they revolve in the Czech economy and return to us in the form of VAT and so on, or other income, back into our economy and into the state budget, so you actually have your inability to raise money from Czech citizens abroad. And I understand those Czech citizens, of course, because when your government is unable to set adequate food prices with comparable countries in the Central European region and to ensure affordable prices for food, fuel and energy, there is obviously no logical choice for Czech citizens except to go shopping in Poland. So that your government is really expensive for us, but that's not 700 000, that's billions already, by forcing Czech citizens - and I understand them completely and understand them - to go shopping abroad and to contribute, actually to increase GDP in neighboring Poland, instead of increasing GDP in the Czech Republic, that's all your fault, your government. So if you want to talk about who's upping the price here, who's upping the Czech budget and who's expensive here, it's you, but in billions of crowns. It's unbelievable. And then you dare to say that the House's hour costs CZK 700,000 when you're worth billions. And you're putting some money in a bowl of weight to fight for freedom and democracy. So this is a completely crazy situation, because I say again, freedom and democracy can't be exchanged for some money. If I had to choose freedom and democracy and membership of the European Union, that is the same question: always freedom and democracy. That's pretty obvious. I would always prefer freedom and democracy and be a little poorer, and I think our voters too, and I know that, rather freedom and democracy than being controlled, bullied and bullied, and not even for basic food and energy. Back to how your government works with energy prices, food prices and so on. You are not only unable to secure cheaper food, energy, fuel, as governments do, patriotic governments around us, and the SPD is a patriotic party, but you are even bullying those citizens who went shopping in Poland by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura turned customs against them. I don't blame customs. We support both customs officers and police officers and firefighters and others, because the customs officer simply has to work on a warrant under the Service Act. That means there's nothing left for that customs officer to do if it's ordered by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS to go check on those citizens, and politically, it's a political order. That means I don't blame customs at all, on the contrary, I feel for them that many of them, I would assume that Poland is going to buy it, too, of course. And especially when the government here essentially froze or robbed a number of professions of the promised increase, and this was an increase in inflation. So instead of addressing energy, food, you are still bullying and persecuting citizens who are going to buy in Poland because in Poland, there is a patriotic government that doesn't give a damn about the interests of the European Union and the dictatorship from Brussels, but it just went through. So it's really getting worse. And for myself, I really did not expect that after just a few weeks there would be a government that would bring such problems to the citizens of the Czech Republic. You've been promising for a year, you've been promising for a year, and I know it firsthand, because I've been in those TV debates with Petr Fiala and, of course, with others on those TVs, all last year and other times. So your five-wheelers said how they're ready to program, how they're ready to solve everything, how expensive you're ready to solve it, but the deed has escaped. You don't have anything ready. All you want, and all you want is to rule. The second thing is, and you haven't told the voters that you don't know how, or that it's just for yourself. As far as I'm concerned... So I would like to strongly ask you, I would strongly ask the government's five-calice, and here the chairman of the KDU-ČSL, Mr Marek Výborný, is constantly taking the microphone, but I would also like to ask him, through the President, to come up on the microphone and say how he will handle the price increase. People are wondering how your coalition's gonna solve the auction because I've already noticed that you're going on a microphone with things that deliberately don't solve the citizens' problems at all. So I'm asking you again when you go to the microphone, and you just checked in, I noticed, maybe you've already downloaded again, so I'd like to hear in your performance how you can solve energy, food and fuel upsizing in the Czech Republic. And if it doesn't sound in your statement, it's completely useless. For the citizens. [[10.40 hours]] We want to hear from some government official, and it is true that Mr Marek Výborný of KDU-ČSL here speaks most often on microphone, has proved, and yet Mr Jakob, Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. So I would like to ask you, because you are obviously more talkative among your Members, because I have noticed that the vast majority of your Members do not speak at all, so either they do not want to speak, speak, or have no arguments, or maybe they do not want to report on some of your issues like the pandemic law anymore. So we saw with your senators that they even rejected it and were against it. So I'd like you to go on the microphone, and I think you're in the mood to go on the microphone, I hope, but even if you go on the microphone tomorrow and next week, please put in the way you're going to deal with the auction, because we can't wait to hear it from the ministers. So, you understand, colleagues from TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL, why I urge you, because we have asked ministers x-times and ministers do not answer that question. Neither is Prime Minister Petr Fiala. He said he'd present a plan in December, and he didn't introduce anything. And once again, as we know, all ten million citizens of the Czech Republic and their families know that, everyone gets expensive bills and gets more expensive. So the citizens are waiting. So I'd like you to include in your performances your specific proposals to deal with the price increase. Because if the government doesn't have the solution, even though it promised it, I expect them to have it and know it by the presidents of the MPs. The most prominent, the ones who speak for you the most. So here we'd like you to take it a little bit longer so we can say the same thing, and we're clearly offering the alternatives here. So let's go to the next topic of this meeting, and that's the way, or not, of the government coalition's inability to help within the framework of the measures and the damage caused to businessmen, self-employed people and small Czech companies. Since our creation, the SPD has been one of the main areas of interest and one of the main priorities of the programme is the pursuit of versatile and systemic assistance to our businessmen, self-employed people and small Czech companies. This conviction has been substantially intensified with the outbreak of the Coronanavir epidemic in March 2020, followed immediately by harsh government restrictions on business activities, and the acute need for a system of aid and support for these groups of citizens and, of course, their employees and their families. It is very sad for us to find that Petr Fiala's government has not been devoted to helping our businessmen since its arrival, not even in its programming documents, so mainly in its practical everyday activities. Well, there's just a lot of words, but actions don't come. This is the typical characteristic of this new government five-wheeler. It is therefore very sad for us to find that Petr Fiala's government is basically refusing to help those working and decent people and companies in some way. On the contrary, we in the SPD consider the support of this social group to be very key, especially today, when all government's restrictive epidemiological measures of the last two years hard hit it. I would also like to draw your attention from the economic point of view that the backbone of the economy is not the multinational corporations and assembly houses that notabene is still making billions of profits of the Czech Republic into tax havens, and that, in order to change and modify this, there was also, and there will be a law of the SPD and it is inserted here in the House system. But the government coalition also rejects it, because you're going to the hand of the European Union and multinational corporations, instead of holding the profits here more, perhaps in the form of a mandatory reinvestment of part of that profit. But you don't care. You don't care, and then you're crying, you're whining that there's no money in the state budget. You're not going to do anything to make the money here. But you always figure it out by reaching out and taking money from the decent people we need here, typically those firemen who, on the contrary, support the SPD. It is indisputable that our businessmen and small Czech companies, after two years of hard measures that restrict and destroy their business, clearly deserve significant and, above all, really effective assistance from the state. Assistance to prevent the disappearance of other businesses, which will also support honest-working small entrepreneurs in the future and allow their business to be restarted. Businessmen and their employees, of course. He never forgets SPD employees. This will also help to save thousands of jobs, because our businessmen are in many cases employers of other Czech citizens, which often few people fully realize with all the consequences and meanings of this fact. In our work in the previous and also in this parliamentary term in the Chamber of Deputies, we have therefore fought for the rights and interests of our tradesmen and small Czech companies all the time. Even for almost two years, it has been a variety of compensations for limiting their business and closing down their premises. In particular, it was a struggle for the form of a so-called compensatory bonus and its parameters in order to achieve it by really all tradesmen who were affected by these measures and whose rights were often ignored by the former government, for example, in the sense that such compensation should also qualify for tradesmen for the so-called self-employment activity, such as old-age and disabled pensioners and students, as well as those tradesmen who work on labour agreements and employment agreements, or to enforce the right of tradesmen to extraordinary care in their children at the time of school and kindergartens. Unfortunately, because of the conditions in the House at that time, we have failed to enforce the SPD as an opposition party, and we consider it the greatest damage and error to reject our proposals aimed at the remission of compulsory social and health insurance contributions by all tradesmen affected by government restrictions, limiting measures for the whole 2021, which would help them really very clearly, and many of them would also enable their business survival. Furthermore, we, in the SPD, have failed to push for three attempts to claim a compensation bonus for the Eserócs, so that all the partners of all these limited liability companies that were prevented or severely restricted during the epidemic, not only the partners of maximum two-membered eserócs, which was clearly discriminatory. She rejected this proposal with a common and several hand, this proposal by the SPD to help small Czech companies and tradesmen, with a common and several hands, the proposal rejected both the former government of the ANO movement and the current five-wheeler, which, although verbally claiming to support the tradesmen, is a completely false position, since in practice the opposite is true of them. According to their real actions, according to the real steps of Petr Fiala's government, their attitude towards our businessmen and entrepreneurs is quite hostile. On the contrary, you support multinational corporations that make profits from there into tax havens. After all, as we see in the example of the STAN movement, the Mayors and the Independents, companies from tax havens even sponsored them in millions of crowns. They sponsored their election campaign, and to this day President STAN and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan refuse to say, and he is also the first vice prime minister of the Czech government who is the end owners of those companies that sponsored them, sponsored the STAN and Pirates campaign. And the pirát don't even care anymore, because they've already sat down to their necks and they're just fucking silent just to be there. This is evidenced by the approach of the government of Petr Fiala, for example by the early termination of the Antivirus B programme, which helped keep employees' jobs in the fields affected by restrictions on business and the subsequent decline in turnover and income. More importantly, in the House, we can see that both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the entire government are very lax about extending financial assistance programmes to businessmen and companies affected by ongoing restrictions, especially in the field of services. [[10.50 hours]] On 31 January so far, the period for which the so-called compensation bonus can be applied for due to the decline in sales in connection with the restriction of business has ended completely without compensation, and to this day have not been announced already in December by the Ministry of Industry and Trade announced and promised calls for financial compensation in the last two functional programmes of the Ministry to assist entrepreneurs, COVID - Uncovered costs and COVID 2021, on which thousands of entrepreneurs relied, although various restrictions on business at least in some fields continue so that a few days ago we finally learn from the Minister of Industry of Síky that these programs will no longer continue, which is a slap in the face of our entrepreneurs and a violation of the promise and the principle of legitimate expectations that these entrepreneurs had. And I am not talking about the zero activity of the Ministry of Industry and Government in helping Czech tradesmen and companies affected by astronomical growth in electricity and gas prices. But I have already mentioned here that the government is absolutely inactive and does not want to deal with the price increase. What's to deal with? Sort it out! You guys have to sort this out, not just in a partial way... not even in a partial way. You're not doing anything. Because you offered the housing allowance to about 5% of households. And since the form is so complicated and the amount is so minimal, he only applied for a fraction, a small part of the five percent of households who could theoretically be entitled to it. So even the only little thing you've done, and by doing that, you've already raised doses that are inadaptable, even so-called inadaptable, to say the right thing, so all you've done is basically so complicated, illogical and wrong that citizens aren't even able to use it properly. You've prevented the citizens from taking advantage of it. That's the problem. Because any thing the government should do should be understandable, it should be user-friendly, accessible. You can't even do that. In the last parliamentary term, when you were also in opposition, like the SPD, this is exactly what you criticized in the previous government, and we also criticized that the measures were not understandable and that it was chaos. But you in this chaos and measure, we see that with Minister Válek, you continue. There's been a complete mix-up that even the Senate, where you have most government senators, is already rejecting your proposals. But that's another discussion. Now I would like to talk about the fact that you are not helping Czech businessmen and Czech companies who are affected by the astronomical rise in electricity and gas prices. This is a completely cynical and tedious position, especially if we know that when electricity or gas is generated under the so-called place of business, not under the private housing regime, not only that the hypothetical and insufficient possibility of asking for a housing allowance cannot be used, I have therefore talked about it, but mainly that energy commodity prices are much higher in the demand points for business than in housing properties and their last growth is already winding up for many entrepreneurs. The programmes prepared to help entrepreneurs, introduced by the Ministry of Industry and Trade of Minister Síkela in recent days and approved by the government yesterday, are very weak and inadequate. The vast majority of businessmen and companies affected by restrictions on the operation of trade and services cannot meet the strictly set criteria for entitlement to state financial assistance, as convincingly evidenced in their opinions by various business associations and associations such as the Association of Entrepreneurs in Gastronomy or the Association of South Moravian Traders and Entrepreneurs. Moreover, these four programmes are still in no way specific and not even actually published. According to government officials, this isn't expected to happen until a week later. We also consider absolutely inadequate communication between the government and the Ministry of Industry and Trade towards desperate businessmen and entrepreneurs who have asked about the form, deadlines and conditions of new compensatory programmes in recent days and weeks. The answer was, as dozens or rather hundreds of incentives we received from the SPD were merely silence. Absolutely zero tolerance. By the way, we only have tens or hundreds of suggestions in one region, for example, on our regional e-mails from our Members. Together, there's already a huge number of impulses that the Ministry is essentially not responding. Absolutely zero response to the efforts of businessmen and entrepreneurs to learn the form, terms and conditions of new compensatory programmes. I do not understand why the Minister of Industry, Mr Síkela, will simply not provide the Ministry's communication with those who pay the Ministry and pay his salary so that they can be answered. I do not understand why we are to receive literally hundreds of incentives from businessmen and Czech companies, these are decent people who work and go to work, pay taxes and live government, and the answer is said to be silence and absolutely zero response. That's terrible! That's awful arrogance. I mean, even if you say, "We don't know, or we answer in a minute, or we answer when we know," it's at least an answer. But completely ignore the questions of taxpayers and citizens of the Czech Republic, especially when asked by entrepreneurs and tradesmen of the Ministry of Industry, which is basically their ministry, should be theirs, but it is against them, as it turns out, so there should be essentially partnership, friendly, helpful communication. And that state of our businessmen and our entrepreneurs, Czech businessmen and Czech entrepreneurs, I mean not national differentiation, but who is a taxpayer, tax payer in the Czech Republic, that's what this is about, so they should feel the support. It should be that if someone calls the Ministry of Industry on the line, for example, so that they won't call to see if they'll ever hear from anyone, but they'll call with the feeling that they'll definitely call and they'll definitely talk to him nicely and give him the information. Even after 30 years since 1989, hasn't the government been able to provide such elementary communication? That's completely insane. This is unbelievable. It's in our travel agency, I brought it, we brought it, there are more of us, over a million Japanese tourists to the Czech Republic since the 1990s in total. And if we work in this way, we lose all the clients who, by the way, also spend huge money in the state budget just for VAT, for accommodation, for purchases and the like. I would have expected that when the Minister, as I read, came from the private sphere, so that it really should be set up so, and I think we know what we're talking about, so that the service for the citizens just works, and not that hundreds of people here write to us that the answer is silence and absolutely zero response. That's not... Let's not do that if I may ask you, Minister Síkela. So far, all we know is that the Minister of Industry and Trade, Josef Síkela, at a press conference on 9 February, said that some of the old Ministry's programs to help businessmen will be renotated in the short term, which is virtually no longer valid today. After an additional question by the journalist, he stated that the condition for entry into these programmes will be a decline of 50 per cent and that this decline will be compared to the period November to December 2021, not the entire second half of last year, as it was before. All relevant business associations agree that these conditions had to be designed in such a way that they could not be helped by any entity that tried to survive honestly for two years and which operated its business in a time of harsh restrictions. The lack of knowledge of the specific form of future compensation also causes huge problems for individual businessmen, entrepreneurs and companies, for example, in dealing with their creditors, which is completely disastrous again. That's what needs to be realized. Even this moment is very important in business. [[11.00 hours]] It is quite obvious, especially on the basis of tradesmen and various business associations, that the Ministry, despite the opposite declaration, seeks to reduce compensation and financial compensation to entrepreneurs as much as possible, without any moral, but also economic and economic authority. Outside the limits of any decency and understanding are some expressions, or I would say rather threats from the government to entrepreneurs in the sense that this is the last aid that will be given to them in connection with the impact of government restrictive measures, and that they should consider whether they will continue to work and do business in their fields, because the government does not intend to maintain them on some kind of transfusion. This is an absolute outrage, especially from the government, which is made up of subjects always pretending to be those who stand on the side of Czech businessmen and entrepreneurs. I would like to point out here, but Minister Síkela knows for a fact that the backbone of the economy is not a assembly plant, a multinational assembly plant. When they don't like it here, they're just gonna leave, not to mention that they often take taxes to countries where tax conditions are more favourable. It's Cyprus, for example. But it is the backbone of the economy that tradesmen are. They're not going anywhere. They must live here, they are small businessmen and small Czech companies, they are the backbone of the economy. These are not multinational corporations that can pack up and go somewhere and they don't care about the Czech Republic because their goal is only to get and squeeze out the conditions in the Czech Republic. So the state should support businessmen and small Czech entrepreneurs who pay taxes in the Czech Republic and live here with us in the Czech Republic. This is the backbone of the economy, and by the way, but the Minister also knows that such basic economic lessons are such that even in the event of a crisis it is also an anti-crisis approach, because if you pack up a few multinational corporations and the economy is dependent on multinational corporations and they leave, it will, of course, cause economic collapse, but if we support businessmen who are engaged in different areas of activity, not simply focusing on the automotive industry. This is also, by the way, a topic that I would like to hear from the Minister about what he intends to do about it, because that basically quite one-sided orientation to the automotive industry at the moment that the European Union is pushing Green Deal and so on, so many people are working in the automotive industry, or there are components being produced here, it is just a huge part of Czech exports, so what is the plan of the government and the Ministry of Economics, how do we actually prevent the destabilisation of Czech industry, how do we simply diversify Czech production and Czech industry to stand on more legs and in connection with the green madness of the European Union in order to preserve the Czech economy and the Czech economy in some way stable. I don't hear that from the government either, but as we know, there's no time at all, because somehow diversifying the industry and the economy, it's a matter of course for x years, it's not that we're going to snap here and suddenly we're going to have a different structure here. So back to the fact that the businessmen and businessmen, the very small and medium-sized companies and businessmen, need to be encouraged. I would like to ask Minister Síkela to mention this in his performance, if he is going to perform, because here I would like to agree with the Minister, who is the priority, and that we must take care of these people here, whoever thinks of them, we support them in the SPD, but these are the ones who will live here with their families, work here, and most importantly there is that everyone is engaged in different areas of activity, and that is of course important even in the event of a crisis, not being dependent on just one segment. Because if Petr Fiala's government is already completely refusing to help entrepreneurs in the future, even though some restrictive measures are still in force, one can clearly expect, among other things: mass, in some areas, literally massive and flat redundancies of the employees of these entrepreneurs, job losses, increases in employment and public finances in terms of both insurance and non-insurance benefits, increases in auditions, insolvencys and executions, the decline of thousands of people in debt traps, the extinction of thousands of trades. And we don't want that. We don't want it for the SPD. That's why I'm asking what the government's going to do about it. When we realize that this government has absurdly ended the Antivirus B programme, which was aimed precisely at promoting employment in sectors affected by restrictive measures, it is literally a lethal combination, and it will be necessary to activate the so-called cursarbeit immediately in such a case. This government often wields Western patterns, especially German ones, but only when it suits it. But just in the situation that we are talking about, our government in Germany could be inspired, for example, by the Neustarthilfe programme, which I, too, cannot speak German, can translate that it is a new start of aid, if I translate correctly, because I have translated this one, but that was a long time ago, in high school, it has browsed through some textbook of German, so this program to help with a new start, to help entrepreneurs, who will still work in Germany for the whole year 2022, and it concerns precisely those disciplines that have been affected by regulations on the prohibition of the entry of non-inoculated citizens into the relevant business and service establishments. But I guess that's too much for our incompetent and arrogant government. The SPD movement says clearly, and in this sense it also works: we appreciate our businessmen and entrepreneurs, who are the famous salt of the country, the engine of its economy and employment and the basic support of the system of public tax revenue. Now allow me to conclude completely. If the government coalition allows us to approve the agenda for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies so that we can actually come up with a solution to this price increase, and I don't think you're going to allow it, because you don't have any solution to the auction, so what would you logically be discussing here, but if you happen to want to discuss our solution, I would like to propose three resolutions that we would vote on in such a case, but that can be voted on, if you allow the agenda to be approved: I. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to draw up and submit an amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus for 2022 without delay, which would allow the financial assistance of traders and entrepreneurs affected by the effects of government restrictive measures for the period after 31 January of this year. II. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Trade to promptly submit and publish realistic and widely available, not unrealistic and discriminatory, special support programmes to assist businessmen and entrepreneurs in the fields that were and continue to be affected by government restrictive measures in 2022, such as regulations on the maximum number of persons who can participate in selected events, for example in the field of culture or sport. III. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to make it its priority in helping businessmen and entrepreneurs affected by restrictive measures the protection of employment and jobs of Czech citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u15	The next priority right is signed by Minister Síkela. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, I hope to compare myself here better than last time, for which I have been criticised. There have been many words here from the sides of my predecessors and previous speakers with many adjectives. You could say that those words were beautiful, tempting, seductive, perhaps even weasel-like. I would say that many of them were very populist in words. There was a repeat of help, support, subsidies, spending money, handing out, compensation. I have been called to be active, I understand that being active means giving away. And there were technical terms, even on the part of the people I was surprised by. Former Minister Schillerová spoke of volatile inflation, Mr Okamura spoke of economic measures. At first, I thought I was a complete jerk, but then I found out that these were, for example, the former secretary's side, the same people who ruled here over the past few years and who are directly responsible for the situation in which our economy is situated. [[Let's hear it for the members of the coalition.]] [[11.10 hours]] And I cannot not respond to the direct invectives of President Okamura, who is here to play the role of administrator, the protector of public interests. And at this point, I can't remember my favorite Karel Engliš. - That, Mrs Schillerová, was the minister in six governments. [[Member of the post: I know that.]] He then acted as Governor of the Czech National Bank. He understood finance. [[Applause from the right side of the hall.]] I recommend it. Because I found out from the performances that we probably went to other schools, read other books, and have other life experiences - I hope for at least a large part of this country's electorate, I dare say luckily. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] So, to Karel Engliš. The democratic government has the greatest difficulty of not being able to rise above their private or party interests in their administration, or simply not understand the problems facing them. Both democracy is discredited, yet there is no salvation outside democracy. Democracy therefore requires character and education. That is why I recommend to everyone, for example, the 1940 book of Karel Engliš, the National Economy for the purposes of the highest levels of secondary schools. [[Fun in the right side of the hall.]] Because of your speeches, even Mrs Schillerová, it might give the impression that you are now in politics and that you have a clean table in front of you. You, Minister Havlíček, Mr Babiš, former Minister Havlíček, Mr Babiš. But there's no way that's true. So let's say what you really have on your desks. At the beginning of this week, the Czech Statistical Office published information that inflation in the Czech Republic had risen to 9.9 percent. January inflation! Not our inflation. Your inflation, January inflation! I deliberately looked into inflation in neighbouring countries such as Germany, Austria, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Belgium, Italy or France. And it's lower in all than in our country. So it looks like after we were the best in covid in your government first, we are now, thanks to you, the best in inflation. If you would like to know the numbers: Austria 5,1, Germany 4,9, Slovakia 8,4, Hungary 7,9, France 2,9 etc. You would really find it hard in the European Union to find a state whose people would devalue their savings as quickly as in the Czech Republic. So you have it, Mrs. Schillerová, on your desk as well. And next to that lies the record debt of the Czech Republic. More than $800 billion in debt in four years, which you, together, have created. The principle of your rule was to buy voters and give money to anyone who asked for them. You guys made this public money dispensary. You dissolved hundreds of billions in the economy, and you didn't even think about whether you acted effectively and what the consequences would be. We can only see them now. Inflation 9.9 %. When I see these results and listen to these long speeches about how I should go on, giving out grant programs like "Evening," as Minister Havlíček did, I wonder, "Aren't you ashamed? But some of you probably don't, 'cause I guess they're out of shame. That's why I've been repeating a few things in my work since the first moment. First, the state is not to give money to anyone who asks for it, but to those who need it most. And that's what we do. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] Secondly, the money I deal with as Minister is not mine. They were entrusted to me by the citizens of the Czech Republic, and I refuse to spend them effortlessly while putting pressure on higher inflation. And thirdly, Mrs Schillerová, for you and for Mr Okamura, who is no longer here, probably went for coffee: If I spend more money than the state budget, it means I owe our children and grandchildren. You don't mind indebting your children and your children's children? It bothers me, and I'm not doing it. [[Let's hear it for the members of the coalition.]] I followed these rules in case of covido programs. We don't give money to everyone, but with our colleagues at the Ministry and in the government coalition, we have found a solution that will help the needy. Not only is this anti-inflationary procedure, it's not upside down like yours, it's also very effective. Similarly, I would like to proceed in the case of the problem of high energy prices, which remains here after the last government. I still ask myself a question and do not get answers: As it is possible that from 15 per cent of the market day, more than 900,000 households will end up in DPI due to the collapse of one energy trader. I wanted answers, I wanted to know what the ERÚ was doing. I wanted to know what the government was doing. I wanted to know what Minister Havlíček was doing. I'm getting answers from the ER that he's dealing with lawyers to see if they can provide me with board minutes! If they can let me know if they've been meeting with the Minister! Of course, I have some available information on how the Ministry did. But there are a few mysteries that there are no answers to. The first mystery is date 30. 9. The date on which Slovakia Energy sent 300,000 Slovak households to DPI because it had ceased its activities. 30. 9., 300,000 Slovak households. 8 to 9. 10. as we all know, elections took place. Four days after the election, the parent company Slovakia Energy, Bohemia Energy, sent 900,000 households to the DPI. A problem that we are still dealing with today. And you know what happened between 30. 9. and 13. 10. when did the subsidiary of the Czech trader with 15 percent market share send 300,000 households to DPI in Slovakia? Nothing at all. And we can ask why? That is why we are preparing an amendment to the Energy Act, which will ensure what the previous government has failed to secure, as well as the ERU. More effective supervision of the energy market will be based on the idea that the offer of the lowest price must not be a bet on the highest risk for the customer at the same time and that all risks must not be borne by the customer as a trader. [[11.20 hours]] Of course, we also know that high electricity prices have hit the entire company and that the most affected are companies from energy-intensive industries. For small and medium-sized enterprises, in cooperation with the National Development Bank, we have prepared an extension of the Guarantee programme, through which we will help entrepreneurs obtain commercial loans with minimal interest. For larger companies, we are also considering restarting the so-called indirect cost compensation, a product that the government paid last year, but then forgot to put it back in the state budget, even when the state budget was being created. And last but not least, we are still considering the possibility of setting up a state electricity trader. In some surrounding countries, such as Slovakia or Hungary, we see that countries have frozen or significantly regulated energy prices. I've gotten an overview here from my previous speakers of what states do and don't do. We have been through 26 states - not all - the European Union and Great Britain, taking measures, looking at what is right for us, what could be best used. You all forgot to mention those states that behave the same way we do - Scandinavia, Austria - which introduced the measures you mentioned today, but until yesterday they had no measures at all, and they had inflation more than half as low as us. On our energy market, the situation is a little different than in Slovakia or Hungary, and we are therefore looking for other solutions that would allow us to ensure a lower energy price for at least the most necessary ones. And it's this model of a state-owned electricity trader, whether it's a separate entity, or it's a state or a semi-state enterprise, or we're going to compete with someone we're going to put into this role, that seems like a very suitable option. This package of measures will help the most needed and will not only ensure rapid assistance, but will also set long-term rules so as not to repeat similar crises as those that occurred last autumn. Of course, unlike our predecessors, we are discussing a number of issues in cooperation with other states, the so-called like-minded states, the states of the same mind, at the level of the European Union. We're dealing with allowances issues, we're dealing with taxonomy issues, we're dealing with a lot of things that will be decisive for the future of this country, for its households, for its entrepreneurs. But like I said before, I'm not gonna waste my helicopter money, I'm not gonna take peacock photos, I'm not gonna go on every TV show, and I'm gonna talk about everything. I want to work for this country, and I want to work for it so that I don't increase the pressure on inflation, so that I don't indebt our children and our grandchildren, because to dissolve as much money in the economy as the last government did, there's probably only one point: on that many billion-dollar scale, it's easy to lose a few million on peacocks or hundreds of millions for some holding company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u17	Another sign-in with priority rights is Mr Babiš. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u18	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I am not surprised by the only member of the government who has an economic education, a new superstar who - yes, the only economic education. [[has]] And you and me, Minister, we can compete. I graduated from the same school as you. And we've known each other for a long time, you and your family went to the falcon hall in Pruhonica. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Your résumé says you were some kind of counselor where you were put away. And the legendary theorem of Treichl in Slovakia is that Slovakia thrives despite Síkel. Everyone remembers that. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] I don't understand. Why are you insulting Mrs. Schillerová here? From what title? Your arrogance, it's like incredible. Bullshit, I'm not surprised. You came from the bank, you've lived in a bank your whole life, and normally, even a classic politician can't say that. You spend - you spent nothing, unlike Minister Jurečka, who spent a few change for 21,000 people. You didn't spend anything, you didn't invent anything, you're demagogically lying about Bohemia Energy. The ERU is an independent office, and you're pushing that our government could have done something about it. And I asked the ERÚ. It's interesting that the market participants had to know that Mr. Písařík's plane was playing, that he speculated on the price drop, and it always worked. And then it didn't work out for him. Incredible insolence, Minister, on your part. What are you talking about? What are you saying about the election? It has nothing to do with the election! And we were the first. And I was shocked when I found out, and I asked how it was possible! And how is that possible? Well, because that's our famous Brusel! Liberalization! When they were stealing fuel VAT, carousels, all the market participants knew they weren't paying taxes! And why didn't the ERÚ intervene? Why, then, if he's independent? But if you figure it out, I'll applaud you. Even if you make a new energy bill that protects, it protects our consumers. But why are you lying here and throwing it at us, that's for real. [[unintelligible]] Your government doesn't understand what inflation is. You're funny, you're actually saying, people, we're gonna give you money and there's gonna be inflation. You're actually saying we don't give people money, so they don't buy anything, there's no inflation. Well, that's genius! Seriously, that must have come up with a great thinker in your government! [[The members of the ANO movement applaud.]] You don't understand! Not at all. Why do you keep saying something about debt? What kind of debt is it? [[Laughs in the hall.]] You don't know? But Mr. Jurečka, I'll get to you. [[Laughs in the hall.]] You as a graduate, you as a former AGRO 2000 dealer, no, we've known each other a long time, you don't understand either. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] So I'm going to tell you here because it's just a three-member. The minister said that we have some inflation, that we, like, are January inflation. But we made it clear that no one would give up inflation! Unless Lipavský negotiates a better price for oil with the sheik oil cartel or jumps to Putin and negotiates some price for gas. [[11.30 hours]] But we don't negotiate anything at all. Why? Well, because we sold everything. Transgas is gone. Unipetrol - Long sold it for a dollar. Innogs belong to who? Well, Hungarians, 70 percent market distribution. Why don't we have it? The water's gone and the CEZ. Yesterday I tweeted and the minorists screamed. Yes, the Slovák have frozen energy prices for three years. How is that possible, even if there's a private investor in those power plants? Well, that's because the company gets it back. And we don't have 100 percent of ČEZ. Why? Because ODS put it in a coupon. That's why there's nothing we can do. But you didn't come up with anything. What are the other states doing? They're cutting down, they're putting down limits, and most importantly, they're reducing VAT. So you're saying there's inflation. Yes, it's inflation. But we don't say it's Fialův's price, like he said it's Babišův's price. We're not saying that you're capable of doing something about inflation like you told us. We're telling you to give people the money that fell out of the sky. If you don't know which ones they are, then in your incompetence and incompetence, you've dropped 62,2 billion from the sky. So, Minister - there are two ministers - put it in your drawer. You're gonna give the 62,2 billion to the elderly by law. I understand that you're selling it, that it's yours. Well, it's not yours. It's the law, and you have to give it to the elderly. That's $21 billion, you're left with 41. Minister Jurečka, why are you still lying about the VAT costing 25 to 40 billion? You don't know how to count? Our government was the first in Europe to forgive VAT on electricity and gas in November and December. So I'll read you the statistics of the Czech Statistical Office. November - electricity prices decreased by 16.2 %. Why? Well, because she's a threesome. We've forgiven 21 percent, that's the constant. Gas prices decreased, 11.5 percent. Thanks to the fact that we have forgiven VAT. We were the first in Europe. The Polák have been copying it since February 1st, and others. Well, how was it in December? In December it was no longer a decrease of 16.2 %, but only by 15 % for electricity and for gas not by 11.5 %, but by 7.9 %. That's what kids in kindergarten learn. That if I count 21, I'll just get a number. I'm gonna read you this January. Do you know how much electricity is in January? 38,6 percent, Minister? But I'm not saying it's your inflation. That's what Mr. Fiala says. I'm saying, with natural gas, we're up 31.3%. It's the Czech Statistical Office. I don't know if the Prime Minister is still a member of the government, he was for us. And what does the statistical office say here? That it is - of course it is an official, you are now firing everyone, so he writes: partly influenced by the return of VAT. No, you guys normally put 21 percent of that VAT in there. That's why there's such inflation. And that's your inflation. Why are you still talking 25 to 40 billion, you can't count? Why don't you forgive people for six months' VAT by the end of June? There's a summer coming in June, maybe you know that. Then it'll be warm. Why don't you give the people? Why don't you forgive VAT for six months? I dare you to do this! 6 times 1.8 billion per month - Minister, that is also a three-member - is 10.8 billion, 10.8. So the 62 billion based on macroprediction, so 62 minus the elderly 21, minus 10,5 per VAT you should forgive. Give people back the fare discounts! You're awkward, you can't give them 1.6 billion? Give them vrátit their salaries - 4.7. Give them some compensation at last. And you're still not at 62. Do you know what the 62 is made of? Well, most of all, it's made up of VAT. From higher VAT income. And who paid this VAT? Come on, guys! They gave it to you, and you don't want to give it to them. And it didn't count at all. Stanjura is manipulating the budget. Are you saying you saved something? You didn't save anything. Because if Schillerová's budget were to remain 376 minus 62, then we're at 314 and your ridiculous quasi-saving, where you strangled everything - and Černochová doesn't yell that they took her billions for beweds, I don't know how she wants to compete - so the difference is 34 billion. And that doesn't count everything you've taken for new positions. So please, you really... What did Minister Jurečka say about the money we're helping with? Well, first of all, you're not helping at all, and if he put the change there, that's people's money! I'm telling you to give them back. So if we have electricity inflation in January 38 percent or what is it, you're sorry to give them 21 percent? You're sorry? You really want to destroy the middle class in this country? You're still talking nonsense that we're... It's unbelievable. You can't imagine. You say: Babišův's government gave money to people, and therefore caused inflation. So for your information, household savings have gone up by 549 billion in the last two years, and they're 3,355 in total. So unlike you, these people are reasonable and they don't say... After all, it's nonsenses. It's not possible for some economist that we've turned the wheels of inflation. Emergency emergency assistance. Well, that's hell. The grandmothers come to Roudnice with 14,000 pensions and 10,000 rents. And they're supposed to fill out your form, Mr. Secretary, 13 pages or what it is. And you normally still lie when you tweet that there would be 25 to 40 billion missing from the budget and we would have to borrow it. Give it six months, it's 11 billion. So it would be good... You are the worst government in Europe in terms of helping people. What have the other governments done? Poland reduced the VAT on fuel, Belgium reduced the VAT on electricity, Spain reduced taxes, Bulgaria frozen electricity prices, Austria suspended the environmental tax. We wanted to forgive the POZE. That solar tunnel of yours for 600 billion. Solar tunnel. And you're still lying in that budget that it's $27 billion, and you're missing nine or what it is. Well, I wonder how you're gonna manipulate that place again. So Great Britain, France, limit the increase in electricity prices, the Netherlands, Norway, Hungary, Slovakia. And on January 20th, Mr. Stanjura... If I were Mr. Stanjura, I'd call Prime Minister Fiala and say to him, "Hey, this is where we put $62 billion in our lap, we're going to a press conference and we're going to give it to these people because they paid for it. Yeah, pensions, compensation, you took their fare. Hell. And Mr Stanjura says: we as a government have limited options to combat increased inflation. Well, I agree. Yeah, we're not saying it's your problem. The Prime Minister is in Europe for the first time today. He can try the emission allowances. I've tried them seven times. Where are they? I don't know how much it costs anymore. A hundred? The European Commission's prediction is completely off the charts! I'm sure they spent millions of euros on it. Totally out of it. So I agree. [[11.40 hours]] Here Mr Stanjura said: social support is not supposed to be a general method of fighting. Mr. Jurečka boasts that there is already a contribution of 3 798. But that's the total contribution. [[Minister Jurečka off microphone: Average.]] Average, yes. That's not the increase for the electricity, they don't buy much for it. [[Minister Jurečka off the microphone, unintelligible.]] Okay, fine. It's just, maybe it'd be good if you chose to see how it works at the employment offices. Because today, Minister Jurečka, I'm going to read you what people are saying: Recently, several mothers have turned to us with their experience with the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. When they wanted to apply for a contribution in material distress because of their financial situation, they were told by the Office that they could not submit an application before the Foundation's asses - so instead of acting by law, the state says: Moms, you don't have money, contact the Foundation... And there's a list. - Moms were given a list of foundations, and only after they have submitted applications to the Office for a contribution from the Foundation would they accept the application for a contribution in material distress. Unbelievable. So please go there, Minister, this is absolutely abnormal, illegal, illegal. It is not possible when the State is to pay a contribution in material distress, that it actually says: go to the foundation. Imagine that the Agrofert Foundation is also on the list. What a scandal! Scandal. And you know what the Agrofert Foundation wrote? But this is not a conflict of interest: "Dear single parents, we ask you for help and sharing experience. Recently, several mothers have turned to us with their experience with the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. When they wanted to ask for a contribution in material distress because of their financial situation, they were informed by the Office that they could not submit an application before they approached the Foundation, including ours, and that only after they made a request to the Office for a contribution to the Foundation, the Labour Office would accept a request for a contribution in material distress.' So they don't even accept it, that's incredible. And now I'm not talking about what system on the MPSV - and you could change that, Minister - that people who get money and then the foundation gives them money, so the state takes away the money they got from the state. This is unbelievable. "This is absolutely unacceptable. The Office may not make a contribution in material distress conditional upon the rejection of a request for financial support by any foundation. If you have come across a similar approach, we will be happy to share these experiences. Thank you." So, Minister, try the Labor Office sometime. And I expect you to make a major change with the MPSV, that the doses... We should be back before Drábkův's reform. The mayor in Bílina wrote a call yesterday to the Prime Minister. She sees which kids go to school, she sees if their parents go to work in the morning, or they're on doses, she sees who's making a mess. You guys canceled in the Senate, your coalitions, your pay-free zones. We had a 15-point programme to fight poverty. Unfortunately, our coalition partner and I didn't make much of a stand, but I'm sure we'll be rooting for you if you do. So much for the authorities. And I'll be back... Another of your demagogy, Minister Jurečka - debt service. So if citizens don't know what a debt service is, that's interest on our state debt. Here, Minister Síkela screamed how much debt we had made. Yes, for the covid. But unlike previous finance ministers, the two best, Kalousek, Sobotka, they chopped up 1,050 billion. And some of them had 6.5 percent growth. So everyone knows where the money went for us. We can prove it. Then don't say it, please. And if you still can't count, then the Czech Republic is still the sixth least-indebted country in Europe. Always. In the European Union. And all those countries that give compensation are significantly more indebted. Even the Polák. So what's the attitude? The pandemic is once every 100 years, so read the Financial Times. There he talks about a military bond, that it was really something unexpected, something terrible, and we will recover from it for a long time. And what does Mr. Jurečka say? That the cost of running a government debt is a problem. Well, Mr. Stanjura put cotton wool in there. He's got 49.5. When I was the finance minister, I saved and worked with that debt of about 17 billion. Do you know how much the coalition left us with the 2013 debt service? $50.9 billion. Last year was 42. Now we have another superstar on the budget board. The gentleman worked at the CNB, and in an interview with Perknerová, he claimed that the government debt service would be 100 billion! Well, it's only 42. Man is amazed at how some change! The budget board, it's amazing. You're doing exactly the same thing Kalousek did after the crisis. Normally, you strangle everything. You're taking money. Railroad manager! I mean, Mr. Fiala took pictures in front of the Teplice station. And how much did they compete for? For 250 million? Is that so much money? But at the Presidency, you have done so far that there will be no socks, but towels. And they're all traveling... Washington... Well, that's where you're going to raise $400 million. So you're not going to have $1,440 million, you're going to have $1,840 million! That's more than the fare discount you took! So total nonsense. We are the sixth least-indebted country, we have great ratings, we have great finances, and you keep saying no and no and no. And that's why you're suffocating the economy. And the combination of your incompetent antisocial government with the CNB is hell! [[Knocks on the speaker's desk]] Rusnokův's precious, yes. Hypotheses. Loans. That's Rusnok's price. Let him read some of the European Central Bank's interviews. So there's a eurozone around us, there's a zero, and we've got it now, 4.7? Or... I don't even remember, it's still going up. But they did the same thing in the spring of 2020! And then they made a mistake because they misjudged the car industry, so they cut it down again! Well, who's gonna make the money? How much do business banks make a month just because they have money in there? Six billion a month! And it's gonna pay people again. So please, if you're getting off here, Minister Jurečka, you're saying what kind of money. That's the mantra... I don't know who's texting you. All taxpayers' money, inflation rounds... And you're bragging about the extra immediate help. Well, that's ridiculous. Yes, 150,000 people are getting help here. Now there's 21 more. But most people who are entitled to the allowance are ashamed to go there. People who have worked hard all their lives have a problem - they have to go to the office of employment! And the neighbors will tell themselves, will they watch what it is? You normally humiliate them. And it's not worth it! Fucking 1.8 billion a month. There you go! [[He's banging on the speaker.]] You got the 62 billion. No reason. So I don't understand what this is all about? [[11.50 hours]] And you're attacking us, yes, but we're not saying you're responsible for the inflation. It's nobody's fault. Yes? Propulsion, yeah. So we made it clear you were supposed to help people. And you're not helping them, Minister Síkela is just humiliating Mrs Schillerová. Big guy, he knows everything, funny, peacock. You didn't do anything, Minister! Just bullshit! Have you been to Dubai? We've prepared the EXPO for you, too! So be so kind, if you want to do some professional fights, then have sex with me! Not with Secretary Schillerová. Yes? And Secretary Schillerová... [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] Because unlike me, you've been working at the bank your whole life. These are the global companies. There you have an instructional block and they tell you when to go to the bathroom, which hand you open the door and so on. Unlike you, I've built something. And we've known each other a long time, and you shock me normally! It's incredible how you've changed. You were a normal person, and what I saw here is incredible! [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] How does someone in the banking sector turn into a demagogic policy, right? And that's an unbelievable demagogy! So I don't know how to explain it to you anymore. You keep saying something's going on. And you're jealous of the old people's pensions? Or the fare discount? Do you know how important this is? Because some grandmothers didn't even get to those granddaughters before, because they just... And it was worth it for you, for the 1.6 billion! So we didn't hear anything from you at the press conference today. Nothing at all! Plans, energy law. Great. So if you take over the ERÚ, that's it. Let's see what Brusel has to say about this. So all the time, Mr. Jurečka 21,000 requests. That's your help. Nothing. Nothing! So I understand that for you it's a big trauma that you would actually give that VAT, but that would be incredible! A normal person would expect you to promise before the election that you'd save $80 billion, that Stanjura would come and look at it. Well, we had other information, we were wrong. You're not saving up anyway. You're just mattressing, adding something, making a difference. You took a billion of those firemen, too. The firemen who are the most important to us and the soldiers and everyone. And paramedics. Fourteen billion! Scandal. Sixty-one billion were balances on insurance accounts - 2020. Last year, 50 and by the end of this year, I'm curious if there's no money. You're still charged, we're still expecting the minister, unless he's playing cards, so he's going to charge the covid to the hospitals. Why doesn't he charge? He owes them money. And how are you gonna pay the paramedics the fees for covid? Still the covid is! I'm curious about the billing. Touching health care is unimaginable. After the covid! So you have the problem. VAT, that's what Babišův's government did, we can't, even if it's good! EET, that was Babiš, too. The fact that it brought 33 billion - no, we can't. You're in possession of expenses! But maybe the minister who came from the banking sector knows that in the normal world, the budget is made by making revenue and then spending. The state's abnormal, that's how it's done, the state's spending and income, it's gonna work out. So I just want to inform you, and say hello to Minister Stanjura, that he still has 214 billion European funds over the period 2014-2020, that we have negotiated 972 billion for the period 2021-2027, of which I personally have 42 billion with my fierceness. That's money when they come into your account, it's in your budget, unless you know it! And a thousand billion more modernization funds. Yes, that's the Green Deal I set up. Advantageable to the Czech Republic. There is no commitment to emissions and we will get a bundle of money, the second largest after Poland. So that's revenue. Try to focus on the fact that you have money there, and not that you're just strangling and destructing what we are... But now I'm not talking about culture and other things. So your mantra over and over. We're in debt. Lie! That giving money is inflation. Another lie. Totally absurd! Absurd! And that's why we can't do anything. So I repeat again, and I ask you that the 62 billion that you received that you didn't even expect, you didn't expect them at all, and that, of course, even the 62 billion is made up of payroll payments that we raised. Yes, you criticized us for raising wages. So you can use this money to forgive everyone's VAT for six months on electricity, on gas, on heat. It's a few crowns, yes, and you should return the fare, you should return the salaries. When we proposed salaries, then the Ministry of Finance's estimate of inflation, I don't know, 3.2. Yes? And today is what? Nine-nine! So it wasn't enough, and you took half of it! So I don't understand how anyone can act like that socially. And try to look around in Europe and see who's acting like one. I don't know anyone. They're all more in debt than we are. And we're the least debt. I do not count Estonia, Luxembourg, Bulgaria and Denmark, these are different, smaller economies. So you have the money, you just keep saying you don't. That budget is hell. I don't want to talk about it today, I'm sure we can get back to it on Friday, but I'm shocked that you guys are incompetently and demagogically performing here, humiliating Mrs. Schillerová here, Mr. Jurečka here is talking nonsense, and that's really incredible! I don't know if it's texting you, who's texting you, about one person, this roundabout, and you're still not telling people the truth. So I'm asking you again, give the people the money they paid you. That's their money, yes. And now they deserve it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u19	That was Mr. Babiš. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka will speak with priority, Mr. Benda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u20	Thank you. I'm used to hearing a lot of things, but that was an incredible bunch of incredible crap that was said here in about 30 minutes, Mr. Ambassador. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] First of all, you're saying who you've ever known or didn't know. I'm begging you, I didn't feed you geese. [[Let's hear it again from the right.]] I didn't meet you until 2013! So don't go public here, we've known each other for a long time and all that. I met you after the election, and we were forced here to look for some form of cooperation, which, in retrospect today, if I could, I would take those steps differently. Don't go and talk, we've known each other a long time. That you've known the people you've been doing your business with for a long time, that you've been seeing the head of an anti-monopoly office at night at hotels and gas stations, for example, so go ahead and brag about it! You needed to deal with your business. Why did you meet Mr. Pecina at night? Why? Why did you make these meetings as head of Agrofert? Did that seem normal to you? What did you need from him? At the time, iDNES was able to write an article about it. No such article would ever work out today! So say the things you met in the '90s in your business, the way you blackmailed a lot of farmers, the way you took over their businesses. That's what you're talking about! [[12.00 hours]] You're talking, and you're saying somebody's falling out of the sky. Who's getting money out of the sky? That's your idea? You're saying you graduated from EVERYTHING, you've ever learned about some money falling from the sky? You were talking about kids in kindergarten learning. Do you think children in kindergarten learn that money is falling from the sky? They don't teach. Imagine, it's not learning. Mr. Babiš, the money in this state is from the activities and activities of these people and companies that pay honestly here and pay taxes that do not optimize through koruna bonds like you did. You, who then went as Minister of Finance, kneeled at the firms and said, "You've had a delayed and restrained dépéháchka here for several years." You've been kneeling on them, daring them, but you've made an unethical optimization of your taxes through koruna bonds. What do you want to say here today as former finance minister? Money doesn't really fall from the sky. Those people worked hard for it, companies worked hard for it, despite what you did against many of them as Finance Minister, as you kneeled at those companies. Some still recover from it. They're in litigation with the Financial Administration, and the Financial Administration is losing those courts. Will you pay for it? Are you or Ms. former Secretary Schillerová here gonna pay for the expenses that were here for the election campaign with the photos? I think it would be fair to come and say yes, it was unethical, contrary to the care of a proper economy, so I as the chair of the movement will pay it, or it will pay for the movement, it would be fair. To stand up for it like a man when you're defending the secretary here, an ex-girlfriend who can't defend herself. She always said she understood she was a good economist, so let her defend herself. [[Mrs Schiller is responding from her position.]] It's okay. I'll be glad if you answer if you return the two million crowns. It'd be great to stand up for it. What do children learn in kindergarten? Ambassador, I don't think they're learning to live on debt. I really think that every normal parent and teacher, when they teach about financial literacy, says that it's not meant to live on debt. If households in this country, if companies in this country function as your government in the last two years, they're without roofs, insolvency, over. You say here, and you say that repeatedly, that we are one of the least indebted countries in Europe, that we are in sixth place. It sounds awful nice, but, Mr. Ambassador, please, say the "B" for what it's done. Thanks to the responsible surplus management of cities, municipalities and regions in the Czech Republic. Then say the whole thing. What do you think that's gonna be? Because politicians like Andrej Babiš don't rule there. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] So say yes to citizens, this country has relatively good public finances in general thanks to cities, municipalities and regions, despite how this state has managed, especially in the last two years. So if you want to say what you're leaving this country, what you've given these people, it's not even a fare discount, it's not even the things you're proposing, but it's debt plus CZK 836 billion. That's the real thing you left this country after your government. That's what these people are gonna have to pay. And you say, "Give those people back the 62 billion crowns of higher tax revenue and social and health insurance contributions." But tell these people that you have proposed a deficit of CZK 370 billion for this year. You leave nothing extra, you leave debts. And no one normal wants to live on debt in the long run. A normal person wants to get out of that debt. So please, don't say this really nonsense here! You're comparing and telling a three-piece how easy it is, so please read the data. You're saying an increase in inflation between December and January. But do you know that the 9.9 is different from January 2021 to January 2022? Did you notice that when you were arguing with that penthouse guy? Have you read it? It's the difference in 12 months. It's not the difference between December and January, as you interpreted it here. So also here in these things, please be very careful what you say when you tend to talk to me here and to the Minister of Industry and Trade and say that we do not know and do not know. Look at the penthouse, inflation at 9.9 over what period it is. You probably haven't read it. Someone texted you wrong. So I would go back to that, yes, the situation is not simple. We've been in government for the seventh week, and I've inherited the system that's left behind from your government. I'm trying to modernize it, I'm trying to change it, I'm trying to tilt the paperwork to zeros and ones, but your government over the last four years-- where did it go with the digitization? Why isn't it running in the data? You didn't answer that at all. So I'm trying to straighten things out today. We're gonna do this difficult, it's not gonna be easy because you neglected it, unfortunately. I'll be glad if we can move forward with this together, but please don't tell people here that there was a miraculous other method of helping during your reign. The way the housing allowance works, I'd also like to see it in a different and more modern way, but that's the legacy you left behind. So say yes, we didn't make it, you're having a hard time, you make it better, we're rooting for you. Then I'll take it as a rational contribution to a policy that knows the state of affairs, knows how it works at the employment offices, and it worked during his prime minister period, and that we will move forward together. That would seem rational to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u21	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, I shall read the apologies that have arrived. She apologizes today because of a doctor's visit between 13 and 19 o'clock, Mrs Oulehlová Oulehloová, from 11.30 to the end of the meeting day for family reasons, Mrs Michaela Šebelová, who delivered it twice, so that is enough. The next member of the programme is the President of the Benda Club with priority rights. Only for registered comments, we are not in the debate, factual remarks cannot be applied, so I am erasing you all and I ask you not to report to them. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u22	Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to calm down a little bit here, because I think that we have really come to an extraordinary phase of chatting and slapping to use the term of one of my previous speakers who has begun this in real life, Mr Okamura. I wanted to respond to what he said here and what was said here last night. You've all been informed from the opposition that we're not going to be trained by a hundred-to-one vote if you let us vote at quarter-to-three, quarter-to-four, or quarter-to-six. We made it clear that the vote would be at a normal time of day so that it could take place in a dignified manner. And now I look away from the fact that I have a prime minister in France who is trying to represent this country and the Secretary of Defense in Brussels, where she represents this country. Of course, I would have been able to put that stand together last night, but I simply said that it is undignified in this House to listen to the next, hundred and fourteenth speech by Mr Okamura, who seems to me to confuse the Chamber of Deputies here with the meetings of his movement, repeats the same thing to us every day, and today it has been said again, including the insults of Members, including the insults of the presidents of coalition clubs. You know that I'm trying not to put this situation behind me, but today it seems like a crow flies again. So please, let's not talk about who had or didn't have MPs here. The government coalition had more than the opposition here at the time. And we made it clear in advance that this vote will take place at a dignified time of day, not by the way you're going to torment and delay us here at night. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Another registered with priority rights is Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, and President Michálek is on the list. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, it does not seem normal to me that a person should, after 45 years of work and tax collection, apply to the employment office for a housing allowance because the government does not want to reduce VAT on energy, as is the case in other states. Minister Marian Jurečka, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, it seems normal that the state will still make money at higher prices. We don't. We really understand that people find it unacceptable to sit in the waiting room in the employment office next to people who, for example, abuse benefits. And what I said at the moment is one of the reasons we called this extraordinary meeting today, with two points. I have already opened one briefly and the other concerns the promotion of business entities in connection with the occurrence of pandemics. I wanted to thank the Minister of Industry and Trade for finally coming to the government with the approval of subsidies, with the programmes he had more or less copied after two months. But I must say, Minister, that your speech was beyond what I would call it, politeness, arrogance and, above all, that I just think you're in politics, I'm sorry, very briefly. You know, when a person becomes a politician or a minister, he should still be in that place and realize that he's the same person and that he's one of those people and that he's not a superhuman. You said here that the former government, that she was active in giving. [[During the speech Jana Mračková Vildumetzová repeatedly turns to Minister of Industry and Trade of Síkel to the government bench.]] You didn't write, you didn't actually make a pledge to a Member, but you made a promise as Minister to defend the interests of citizens. And you're supposed to help them, those citizens. And you're telling me that the government was writing these compensatory bonuses - and I was sitting here in the last House, I was perceiving the appeals of the opposition, who said you still have to open a grant program for those guides, you have to open for all the others you've forgotten. And the government responded to that, Minister, and based on that, it opened the subsidy programs. And you're criticizing this at this point? You're saying the state isn't supposed to give away money and give it to those who need it? But that's exactly what the former government was doing and doing it, I repeat, based on the appeals that came from the opposition here, but also from our regions - I have come to the Minister of Regional Development several times with an appeal to continue, there are vouchers for accommodation to extend, because I am from a region where tourism is very resonating. And the Secretary of State for Regional Development has done her best, and the vouchers have been and have been very helpful. I must say, your performance and your inquisitiveness towards Mrs. Schillerová were way over the line. Of course, I know what I'm experiencing at the Regional Council in the Karlovy Vary Region, and I know how well they shoot at women. But I think it's on this land and against the woman, what you said here today, so I think you should apologize to the secretary for that. [[A round of applause from the left side of the Chamber.]] I think the Secretary of State, in her position as Secretary of Finance, worked responsibly and did her best within her department, worked really, dared to say, 24 hours a day, interested in all the problems. And what really came out of your mouth today was very unfair. I've been writing down some of the things you've been saying here, and that they've been giving out grant programs like "Evening Night." And what I'm saying is, the subsidy programs that you've prepared, they're all in the media now, and they're saying it's not gonna be enough, it's not gonna help them, they're gonna have to quit their business. Well, I guess you didn't write grant programs for the needy ones. Minister of Industry and Trade, you won the election in October. By that time, you already knew you had a majority in the House. You've been telling us all along that you're ready. I practically repeat it here every day, with both the pandemic law and everything. But I see you have no strategy, you, in person. Or please introduce me to her here, the strategy. I have to tell you, if I look at other states, they have a plan to restore the economy. For example, Germany has allocated more than a billion crowns to return to theatres, cinemas, other locations where people have been accustomed to going over the last two years. Germany has allocated additional billions of crowns to support trade, industry and other sectors. And I'm asking, what's your plan? I saw him today. You've come and you've made everything against the last government. I, uh, last time I performed here, I wanted to compliment you. Then I forgot about it because you criticized our former Minister of Industry and Trade that he didn't deal with the business with the Energy Regulatory Authority that he was never there. Then you apologized for it, which made me very happy. But I have to say, your performance tonight - I was totally thinking it's not even possible that someone could perform in this way. So I'd like to challenge you to come out here today, what is your plan to restore the economy, if you'd like to come out here, what is your plan to reduce inflation? [[correctly explained]] And you're still, maybe you'll come up with it, or you're waiting for some kind of signal that it still needs to be discussed. But, you know, they don't have time for these entrepreneurs to discuss it and figure it out. You were supposed to have it ready by now. And you said you were ready. I think the time is running out. Now, I would turn to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the increase in energy prices. So I also have a huge problem with this and, above all, citizens of the Czech Republic have a problem with it. Energy prices continue to rise. This government boasts on Twitter that it will thus add thousands of crowns to seniors, but it does not say that it will take more of them for energy VAT. That, in my opinion, is an unacceptable situation. In my opinion, it is literally scandalous for people who have worked their whole lives to contribute to the pension system, but now Minister Jurečka said to them with a smile: it is nice that you have worked, but get in line for the employment office for support. But other people are affected by the same situation, and I am really wondering how the government can afford indirectly working people to be told to go to support offices. Do they even understand what they're saying? How much hopelessness do they send them with their big salaries? [[12.20 hours]] Moreover, did the Minister also notice that when he promised massive support that the authorities would be open, and we were also making a motion for a resolution to expand office hours, so that they, when they are at work, could not wait for several hours at the employment offices? And I would like to say one more thing here that is forgotten, and that is Mr Drábkův's social reform of 2011, when the payment of benefits took place to municipalities and cities and it was up to the authorities of work. You're saying you're working with the mayor today. But if it were in those towns and villages, it would all be a lot easier. But we do not agree at all, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, with the fact that you have come up with this, that this support will be in the context of increasing energy prices. We are constantly saying that the path is a reduction or zero percent VAT, with which it came in November and December, not only did it come in, but also pushed Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. And I thank her for that. And I think that other people are thanking her for that, because that's why energy saving was 16.2 percent, and with gas it was 11.5 percent. The Minister then negotiated with the relevant Commissioner in Brussels that it is possible for us to continue with the zero percent or other reduced rate. But Prime Minister Babiš said it already, you didn't want to do it just because the last government came up with it. And that's the saddest thing about it is that you don't want to take good steps just to say it's wrong, and we come up with something better, and that's right. And now I would like to hand over to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs all the forms you have to fill out if you want to apply for increased energy prices. [[He's pointing.]] So, Minister, he has to fill out an application for a housing allowance, proof of the amount of the housing costs, proof of the amount of quarterly income, declaration of persons who do not have the income applicable to the benefit, confirmation of the incapacity of the careless child to prepare for future occupation or to pursue a gainful activity for the disease or injury, certificate of the health status of the careless child, and declaration of persons who do not pay the costs of their needs together with the applicant, certificate of study, proof of maintenance provided together with the person considered. In order to do this, you must photograph the ID card, birth certificate and many other documents - income and other things. There's ten more papers. And I would take the liberty, Minister, of handing it over to you at the moment, of asking you to fill out all the necessary documents, and if you would send it all to my e-mail. And I'll see how much time you can prove it to me. Thank you. [[He's handing over these forms to the Minister. Let's hear it for members of the YES. Minister Jurečka: In this state, your government gave it to me. This is the work of your government.]] And I would like to say one more important thing, and that is that the previous government did not just come up with a VAT reduction, but it also proposed that people have savings within renewable sources, and that saving was CZK 1,500 per household. This was presented by the Minister of Industry and Trade with the Minister of the Environment and it was linked to the Modernisation Fund. You didn't want this either. And I would like to say that this did not just apply to households, but it also applied to entrepreneurs. This means that the savings would be even bigger, and from 1 January, if you'd accepted it, the savings would have been 36%. And I still don't understand one thing. You're still criticizing the VAT cut. We really were the first to come up with this, or my colleagues, who were sitting in the government. And now I want to read, and please, everyone, listen to me: in November and December, she came up with this and pushed it through the government of Secretary Schillerová. And after us it was done by Poland, Belgium, Spain, Austria, Denmark, Hungary, Slovakia, Great Britain, France. So all these states are doing it wrong? But the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is doing well. I think what I said here at the moment, that it speaks for everything. We all see the way all the states are going. I think what I said here at this point is visible. They were all inspired by us. And they all go this way: by reducing VAT to energy, some go to food and others. And what I was terribly sorry about, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, was that statement about the cities, municipalities and regions. Minister, you know I'm the former mayor, the governor. And you know very well that, as the head of the Regionals Association, I've had a lot of fights with the Prime Minister when I wanted the county to get money for twos, threes. But I also fought in the framework of the budget tax determination. You're gonna say here today that good management is because cities, municipalities and regions have funds in their accounts? But why do they keep them in those accounts? You didn't say that anymore. I'll show you. I'll show you, Minister. [[He's showing Minister Jureček the chart.]] Developments in tax revenues of cities and municipalities - 2008 to 2011 - were received by cities and municipalities from the whole tax package, from 100 percent, within VAT because it is the largest income, 21.4 percent. And then all of a sudden, in 2012, these municipalities and cities got away -- we all know who ruled -- and they got 19.93 percent. And then in 2017, it came back to 21,4%. And do you know how much tax revenue cities and municipalities have had since 2021? Do you know how much it's increased? It's up to 25.84. [[They applaud the members of the YES.]] 25.84. And now I'm going to show you. [[He's showing the minister another table.]] How much did the municipalities receive in 2017? They were getting 161 billion. And in 2021, 250 billion. Of the 160 billion municipalities, they received 250 billion. How can you even say that here, Minister? You should be thanking me! You know, when we fought compensation bonuses to get cities, municipalities and regions out of it. And the Ministry of Finance gave it to the cities, municipalities and regions. I also have a table for you against the regions, when the regions received 46 billion in 2013 and 76 billion in 2021. And that's why these communities have saved money. Because they got them. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] The cities, municipalities and regions have never received more funding within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. 21.4 to 25.84. Maybe I'll transfer it to the Karlovy Vary Region. That's 300 million on a small area like this, how much more we've gotten. So, when I heard that, I think you should come back here, Minister, and you should thank me for how much and who... if these mayors and the authorities are sitting here, they all know that they never got any more money under the tax budget. So please don't ever say that again! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u25	The next priority is President Michálek and then President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring a new direction to the current debate, which is rather heated between two polarizing positions. First of all, I would like to say no to the fact that the government is not taking sufficient steps for citizens in the low-income area. It is true that the number of applications is quite low, but to criticise here that the government should change the whole supply system in two months and all the forms that have been here for years, especially in the years of the previous government, I think it is inappropriate at this point. I'm sure we can agree that the batch system is over-enlarged, it lacks automation and so on, but in this debate, the argument is not relevant. My speech will relate to the impact of the energy crisis on families and the middle class in particular. I bring another opinion in this regard to the debate that is going on here. Besides, on the one hand, very closely defined measures by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which I consider unfair at a time of expensive and higher collection of energy taxes, and on the other hand, the flat-rate tax forgiveness that promoted the YES movement, which, however, has the problem in terms of the distribution effect that it will help the major energy consumers dramatically. From this point of view, it is not motivational and it is not ecological either. To put it simply, Grandma, who is deep in her pocket, gets a significantly smaller discount than the owner of a huge villa with a heated pool that consumes a lot of energy, because everyone will get a percentage discount if it is dealt with through these tax laws. I think in this way, if we want to step in from the state's point of view and help those people, and I am in favour, we should not distribute the discount and that wealth in this way. I'll come up with a specific example, with which I was approached by an I.D. who is also the chair of a community of unit owners in a house that has about a hundred apartments. It stated that due to high gas prices, monthly advances of CZK 7,000 will be increased. [[Right, $700,000.]] This is a record-breaking example, which is extreme, I recognise, which really concerns the time when the highest gas prices during December and therefore the backups were extreme. But unfortunately, the example is real. In a house with 100 flats, monthly advances increased from 140 000 to 880,000, which means over 700 000 crowns a month. And what we need to say openly is that this is the value added tax of CZK 120,000 per month for the one house that the state will choose for value added tax because we have an energy crisis and a cost here. This is a problem we need to name ourselves openly. A problem we're not running away from here. I turned to the appropriate organization, to her board of directors, I talked to those people, and really, those people didn't set it up. It's based on the market situation. When we talked about the gas, let's see how it is with the electricity. According to the calculation of our analytical team, if the price of electricity has increased by CZK 1,000, then from the thousand that will become more expensive, CZK 665 will become state. Different ways. The state will make 665 kroner on this. Most of the money that's going to get more expensive is going to be swallowed on carbon permits, of course on some profit from those who produce energy if they are co-owned by a state such as ČEZ, a. s., so through dividends it reaches there. Twenty-one percent of this makes it value added tax and there is a decrease in expenditure on renewable state budget resources of CZK 92. So together, a really big part of what people pay extra in the electricity field is going to get the state. Therefore, we should not avoid this issue and, on the contrary, we should ask ourselves further questions. So how much money does the state get? How much more money will he collect from the citizens? Overall, according to the estimates for the next year, about CZK 25 billion is based on VAT and allowances, on the dividend of CEZ, which will come mainly in the following years, and over two years this amount will increase up to approximately CZK 100 billion per year. These are additional revenue from the state budget related to high energy prices. According to our estimates in the upcoming and submitted draft budget, the amount of approximately CZK 5 to 10 billion is not included, which is based on the fact that our inflation estimate has increased even further, so that the revenue needs to be adjusted by this amount. So it is solid to ask ourselves what is happening to the extra money that has come into the budget or which is not yet included there at all. Of course, the part will go up, to valorizing the pensions that we all agree on here, I hope, as we are here in the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, part will go to the Modernization Fund. We must remember that we have also sacrificed certain funds by decision from the last parliamentary term, when we have approved, for example, an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, a reduction in taxes, etc. But it really should be made clear how it will be handled with the money that we have subsequently collected as a result of the energy crisis, because citizens rightly ask us when we are already paying such high money extra in a situation that is very unpleasant for them, because they basically are going to override their family budgets, what happens to the money, and whether at least part of these revenues will be returned to people in some form so that the middle class feels it. I certainly don't want to spend money on anybody's debt budget. But here we're talking about extra cash. Yes, there is a government debt, but I also refuse to have those who simply had the bad luck to pay back this debt to a large extent that they did not orient themselves at energy prices, that the contract expired at a certain time. Who were a little less cautious and so on. Of course, they must bear the consequences of this, but we must set the whole system fairly, because this is an extremely unexpected event and it would be disproportionate for the state not to help in this area. Because the Energy Regulatory Authority did not help these people, as was rightly said here, which had no control over the market situation at all, did not use its instruments and basically did not control its own contract with the energy supplier. So I think it would be unfair to put that question in such a way that state debt should pay more to the victims of the energy crisis, which will take away these additional tax resources. I don't think the universal answer to this is that money is available for subsidies and that we're going to say to people: get some subsidies in the form they're set up. Revisions would have to be made so that everyone can really take advantage of this. In the case I was talking about, with the gas, it's the house where the gas boiler room is. And if this house is warmed up, if it has any other energy savings, then we simply won't find any other, more efficient source. There is no solution to bringing in any other subsidies, and this would sort it out somehow. [[12.40 hours]] So what I'm asking is, do we have any data on how much energy has been saved from these subsidies and whether these schemes are effective at the time of the cost of the energy crisis? I'm generally rather skeptical that we're going to donate to the prosperity. I have nothing against the subsidies that are already there, but let us realise that we are talking about a dramatic increase in the funds that will come to the Modernization Fund as a result of high energy prices, and we will therefore look for other and other subsidy opportunities and promise to help those families affected by the energy crisis. Overall, I think it is better for people in the energy crisis to help directly and immediately financially and to let them find ways to save money. When I mentioned the Modernization Fund, there will be a lot more money in the Modernization Fund, and in two years it is estimated that as a result of increased energy prices, there will be an extra CZK 20 billion. The 20 billion crowns we collect from people in taxes should be mentioned again. Will it be more subsidies? In the Government's programming statement, the government committed itself to partially compensateing for the effects of the energy crisis. At the same time, he undertook not to increase the tax quota, but it is precisely the increased collection of taxes on imported gas that increases. I think that collecting less taxes is right-wing, it is not upside-down, but, on the contrary, it would be the first measure to help the middle class cope with the energy crisis that has fallen, and at the same time, it would help them cope with the cost. The increase in demand that this should have, because people would have more money in wallets, would have a significantly smaller effect on the overall balance for people, as inflation hits them. So let's talk about what parameters should have a solution that is acceptable and accessible to a wide population. If it's the energy bonus we talked about, if it's going to be a reduction in the renewables charge. I think, personally, I have a somewhat critical assessment of the effort to forgive VAT or to reduce it significantly, because it is not, as I have already said, environmentally motivated. And we have already heard the operator's instrument of proper setting, but the question is whether an operator in the energy market can really be a solution that is so widely available, and if it is not just a solution for low-income groups. The question is whether it could actually be replaced by a state operator for the entire segment. I believe that serious political negotiations should be conducted on these serious issues to seek agreement both in the coalition and, where appropriate, with a constructive opposition. But after what happened here yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies and what happened today in Mr Okamura's speeches, I simply do not believe that the approval of the agenda for this meeting would lead to constructive negotiations, and I am very sorry about such acts of opposition and Mr Okamura, which discourage people from voting for any further debates held at a similarly populist level. Thank you for your attention and for considering the various views on this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, too. The next priority right is President Schillerová, followed by Minister Síkela. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I have to respond. I wanted to respond much sooner, but of course I have to respect that there is some order, so it wasn't about that, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Vice Prime Minister Jurečka, that I would like to hide. I thank President Babiš, through Madam President, for standing up for me, thank my very dear and respectable colleague, through your President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, Vice-President of the House. I really appreciate it. I'll also comment on the angry campaign that's been running at me for almost a few weeks. And I will be very happy to say this, of course, and very frankly, once again, if you hadn't noticed it in the media. I'm still consistent in this, and I'm certainly not going to be weakened in the week when the budget is to be discussed, certainly not, nor will it be silenced. There's nothing in my life that I should be ashamed of and what I should be afraid of or hiding behind. So I'll get to it. I have a few notes, just like you said. So Minister Síkela - do I say your name well? You're really, I've already said that to myself in the confidence of the government, you've confirmed it today, I'm being polite, so I'm not going to use any expressive expressions or invectors, I'm going to say, entertainer of this government, definitely, showman, every performance you perform is a huge show. You're enjoying this, and you're a godsend to this government. A pompous banker who didn't understand that he was in government to take care of people. That's my opinion, that's how I see it. And I will ask you, of course, do you know what kind of education Karel Engliš had when you're so terribly inclined by him? He's been hanging on the board at the Treasury Department among all those ministers since 1918, between whom there was only one woman, and that was me so far, and it's probably gonna stay that way for a long time, which I don't want to brag about because I don't need to hide behind anyone because I'm a man and I'm not afraid of men. You seem to have a problem with women. I certainly don't have a problem with you. [[A round of applause from members of the ANO movement.]] And do you know what kind of education Karel Engliš had? Karel Engliš was a lawyer. He was a great economist, he wrote some great books, but he was a lawyer, just like I'm a lawyer, I'm a graduate of the great Masaryk University, the Faculty of Law in Brno, the university where your Prime Minister was rector, so I'm sure you won't doubt that this is a great university that gave me a great foundation. Now, let's go, since we've said it so nicely, who we are, where we are, and who we are, to share some of the facts you've been talking about. You read the press release, and you saw the press conference of the Czech Statistical Office on inflation this week, when you were talking about it so flamingly, and you were pushing me here that I shouldn't really know what it is, because I can't really know. So I'm gonna stick to the facts, and I'm just gonna quote it very briefly. Indeed, the current increase of 9.9% has been the most since July 1998. And the main reason? Return of VAT on electricity and gas prices, which our government forgave at the end of last year. That's the basic reason, energy growth, and the leap is because the VAT just went back to 21 percent. [[Very strongly.]] Read it. It's in there in black and white. And I'm sure you won't suspect that the Czech Statistical Office would do it for me or our former government. And now for more facts. The debt you're so inclined to. You know, in our modern history, I mean, since the Velvet Revolution, there were only three finance ministers who could have a surplus or a balanced budget: Václav Klaus, Andrej Babiš and Alena Schillerová until the covid arrived, and then you know the story. But I'm gonna move a little bit, so I don't repeat things I say a lot, and I'm sure you've noticed them. And if you were a lawyer, like you're not, and I'm not mad at you for that, you're a banker, you'd know there's some kind of public support. And that public support is regulated by the rules of the European Union, and just when you're providing some kind of grant or some kind of compensation like us, and it's hard to do anything different when all the countries of the European Union have done that, I've said it x-times here, so you have to respect those rules, because otherwise it would be unwarranted support. And if you respect them, then whoever meets the terms must get the support. It's just to scandalize my esteemed, hardworking colleague Karel Havlíček, when you're here to bring up who you could or couldn't. And that's why maybe the helicopter, you say it once was given to those who shouldn't be given here, then you call it a helicopter again, that's what public support is called, just for your information, and that's why we actually had to do this. You know, it sounded from your side, it really was such a fun show, but we didn't learn anything, especially as my honourable colleague said, through Madam President, Madam President, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, no facts. What's the help going to be? Nothing, a show. You did it here, you indebted it, you wasted the money. But what will you do? You know, it won't last much longer. You can say that for a little while, a little while, maybe six months, maybe, but it won't be fun for the citizens anymore. They're gonna ask, okay, so he was bad, Babišův's government sucked, it was bad. That's what we've heard from the entire campaign. But what happens now? Well, we just didn't hear that. We didn't hear that. You know, you remind me, there was a movie called the Rain Trader. That's how it felt in there. [[12.50 hours]] And now, please, to the Minister, Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. Well, you actually mentioned it, too. You know, this case, which really died the way it was born, with the famous audit, has one single meaning: distracting attention from what this government does that there are two political deputys in every ministry. I know they're in finance. It costs a quarter of a million, a salary of 120... [[He turns to Minister Jureček, who spoke off the microphone.]] So maybe you don't, I'm sure in finance. A quarter of a million with a car, with an apparatus, and all that other people are getting, that expenses have gone up, that they are being cut off everywhere, that about 74 million have joined the Office of the Government, and so on. And I'm so curious when my honored successor at the Treasury Department -- it was supposed to be yesterday, I looked at the pages, I didn't have time, I was here -- when he published his list of... [[He's turning to Minister Stanjure.]] ...he's here, excellent - advisors, I'm looking forward to it. So this is where the case was created, there was a case created, and there were two employees from the department who had 12 people who -- someone was making press releases, someone was doing a web site, someone was doing an audiovisual image, and here I've been dehonested for days, almost weeks for something that just doesn't have any substance. And that it was placed on my social media? It's public social networks! Like Alena Schillerová, a public figure. I don't have any private! I have a private Facebook I haven't used in years. And of course, both of these people, who now have hell out of life, just for you, that they're all still dealing with me, but now they're having hell out of life. For what? They didn't do anything. Besides, they've billed the movement. You know, when you're both here, gentlemen, it's wonderful. It's my custom, and I'm not gonna do it, and I'm never gonna get my hands dirty because I'm a religious person, I thought you, too, Minister, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, and I'm not gonna burden myself with my conscience, but I've been written by a lot of citizens. [[to Minister Jureček]] And they wrote to me about why I would be insulted: why would you let these people insult you? And they sent me things I didn't know. I didn't know you had a $60 million commercial at Regional Food when you were Minister of Agriculture. And I don't care, I'm not gonna deal with it, I'm not gonna mess you up. It works for me. I get stories from the Abbots when the minister was the mayor of Opava. I'm not gonna deal with it, I'm not gonna act the same way, I'm not gonna act the same way. But I won't be afraid. I haven't done anything, I've worked my whole life honestly for this country, I've worked in the public sector, and I won't be silenced. And tomorrow, the budget will be and I will tell myself everything, in substance, everything I want, as I will see it, how I will use my knowledge and my knowledge. So that's the whole politicized story. I will no longer deal with the management of the regions, cities and municipalities, which my colleague, through the President, my colleague, the Vice-President of the House, said wonderfully for me. And on top of that, two more numbers, I'll repeat them tomorrow at the budget. You keep saying, "The debt." The country's debt in 2013 when the CAO coalition handed over the YES movement to the Ministry of Finance was 43.3% of GDP. At the end of 2021, when we handed it over, it was 42 percent of GDP, and I draw on the macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance from 20 January 2022. One more thing. I read an interview with Mr. President today, and he said this beautiful sentence. I dare to quote. He said: little people are only able to deal with small things. Which is a huge truth. And you've been given great power in your hand, just like we've had it for four years, and that power is primarily responsible. Responsible for the people of this country, for how they will succeed. And they're not doing well right now. And we faced it face-to-face, even if you were dragging us now, and we were helping. We kept the social peace, put the money where it needed to be. And the fact that it had a positive impact on the economy is clear. There was no such decline in 2020, which was also admitted by some economists. And inflation - I won't argue with you here. You know, you guys who are economists, how it is with inflation, what causes inflation, that it's just a total disruption to those supply-customer relationships, the overall disruption of everything that brought about... the functioning of the economy caused by the pandemic and then the related things. That's what we said to each other x times, and we're going to say to each other x times. But you can't just talk your way out of doing it and helping these people. And if you just throw the problems in front of you - you can insult us here, you can mock us, whatever, we'll endure it. I'm definitely gonna make it. My grandmother used to say, the nettle doesn't burn the frost. I'm sure I can take it, but you can't run away from the problems. And someone will have to come for you to deal with them, because in the words of the classic: you, Mama, will no longer be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u29	Another with priority rights is Minister Síkela. And since the presidents and the presidents of the club have agreed not to take a break today from 13:00 p.m., it is an agreement across all the presidents and presidents of the club, so we are going on, and I am just saying that the next registered and last registered is Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u30	Madam President, honourable Members, I will only respond very briefly. I've been accused of arrogance here, of pompousness. I was even asked to apologize to President Schillerová. I apologize to all of you, but I will not apologize to President Schillerová, because I do not apologize to people who are not telling the truth. And I didn't humiliate Mrs. Schillerová. She humiliates herself by reacting to some things. You, Mrs. Schillerová, said you were a man. So you and the photographers and the cameramen stand up like a man. That's the first comment. Second comment: I will not have a macroeconomic discussion with anyone here about how to fight inflation, how to fight debt. I just want to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the deficit is still a debt. A higher deficit is a higher debt and a lower deficit is a lower debt. [[13.00 hours]] For all who believe it is right to live on debt, I recommend you an amazing book about humanity from its beginning by Yuval Noah Harari, who is called Sapiens, in which he writes that the path to growth opened up in the modern era after the discovery of trust in the future. Only when the goods that do not yet exist are covered by the special kind of money we call a loan can the present be built at the expense of the future. The last comment I can't forgive because he's interested in journalists is my visits to the Sokolovna restaurant in Průhonice. [[Applause and laughter in the hall.]] I really don't know why this has been mentioned here, but given the interest of journalists, I have to comment. Yes, I've been going there for years, I've known Mr. Babiš for years. I like the restaurant, it cooks well there, and my daughter, who's known it since she was a kid, we've been celebrating her second birthday, there's an amazing animation team, a big gym. There's a lot of trampoline and climbing around out there. So I could drive there, play there, and I could eat in peace, because the whole playground was guarded. So I could always eat with the lady in peace and the little one enjoyed it there. I hope when it gets warmer, I can still get there without any more speculation if they let me in. Thank you for your attention. I've always paid bills there, either by credit card or cash, and the staff liked us there because I've always left a big tip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u31	Before I give my word, I have two excuses to load. From 12.30 a.m. to the end of the day, Minister Pavel Blažek apologises and from 13 to 14 a.m. she apologizes to President Schillerová without giving any reason. She is represented by the Vice-President of the ANO Havlíček Club, who subsequently applied for the floor. [[Minister Stanjura objects that this is not possible.]] I dare say we have a rule set at this point. If this is a written justification, then there is a possibility of representation. However, Vice-President Mračková is now registered. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u32	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I have yet another performance and rather two reactions mainly to the performance by Mr Jakub Michálek, who here about the reduction or, respectively, zero percent VAT on energy, and so that citizens could possibly get a discount from those renewable sources, so he said that the forms are badly set up and so on that he knows it all. I hope that all Members, especially those coalitions, remember when I was here to perform and beg you, so let us approve the zero percent VAT, and when you are sure that you are properly prepared for everything and it is the right solution, then perhaps cancel it if necessary. But in my opinion, it was extremely irresponsible that you didn't come forward and that the law didn't pass that would... You're from the towns and villages, so I'm sure you're talking to these people about it, that it's a really big resonating problem today. If something else were to go this way and then set up, I think it would be the right way. So Mr Michálek here, through Mr President, is in no way telling the truth. One last reaction to the Minister of Industry and Trade. Minister, you're talking nicely about Secretary Schillerová, you're talking about Průhonice and other things. But I was challenging you here to tell me how you're going to help those people and those entrepreneurs. But you haven't told me that before. That's what I think is most important, and that's what you're sending, and that's what you're supposed to do as Minister of Industry and Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u33	Mr. Havlíček is now acting Vice-President of the Club. I just wanted to make it clear, actually, since it's a written apology, there's no assumption that, by the end of the day, Mrs... [[Minister Stanjura again raises an objection.]] It's not like that. Indeed, we all have the same procedure with the Vice-Presidents. It is applied to all clubs equally. The moment the club's chairman is excused, he can be the vice president of the club with the club's opinion on the club's agenda. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u34	Madam President, honourable Members, first of all, let me thank the House's leadership and the President for her position. [[its]] I understand that the Minister of Finance, through Madam President, would prefer that I do not stand here at this time. But I dare say that it may even bring a little more light to those topics that I have had the opportunity to implement, represent, defend and so on for several years. So thank you for the discussion. I must say, I do not largely blame the socialism of the Minister of Finance. If it is a corporate government for elites, then to a large extent the antisocial attitude of the Minister of Finance is logical. No wonder. What I blame is the attitude of the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who are to defend the interests of the sector, who are to defend the interests of those who are under their ministries and who are to fight for them. They are logically to fight with the Minister of Finance, even if he is an antisocial minister. Even if he's the Minister of Corporate Government for elites, they're supposed to try to dig a playground and make sure that they can survive, exist and function. What do we see here? We see not two ministers, we see here two good Deputy Minister of Finance for Risk Management. I congratulate the Minister of Finance through Madam President, he has an excellent team, he has good Deputys. But what I miss here is that these people are supposed to be digging for homes and kicking for businessmen and businesses. Instead of looking for a solution for the future - however I understand that the government does not have it easy like no government in Europe at the moment, especially with regard to the energy crisis, the post-covide period - so it goes back to the past, constantly bragging about what we should have done, we should not have done, and it merely conceals our own inability to prepare at least simple, elementary solutions. It's a very typical example of Bohemia Energy. Everyone knows that there have been individual alternative suppliers, not as a result of the behaviour of individual governments, but as a result of the global energy crisis and as a result of the fact that 15 years there has been a single superliberal energy market in Europe, which has just enabled these organisations, these companies, and which has made it impossible for the regulatory authorities to take greater care of them in terms of, for example, the financial sector. So bringing up Bohemia Energy is nothing more than waving the dead maid. If we look at it with regard to individual resorts, let's start with the more positive. I was prepared here today, and I will do so, although I did not like the performance of Minister Síkela, so it must be said that the programs he prepared and published yesterday are not bad at all. What bothers me is that it's only after two months. We've been talking about this for two months. I mean, everyone needs to know how it's been going for the last two years. You criticized me, and to a large extent I took it. First of all, you were the opposition, I'm looking right here. Next, you had a piece of truth that those programs must be fast, that they must be for all those who are limited or who are closed - I note for all - and that the aid should be at the maximum possible level. [[13.10 hours]] I don't want to quote what your colleagues have said, but let me quote at least two or three. Today's Interior Minister, Rakušan: "Businesskeepers constantly listen to the sentences of having to make pillows in favorable times to cope with crisis situations. And that's a false argument. Time has progressed. Even entrepreneurs with a reserve are in existential trouble and we want the government to pay 100 percent." Once again, Minister of Industry, if you're still here, if you're not, I'll send it to you: 100 per cent of the cost to entrepreneurs and businesses and 75 per cent of the loss of profit. Shortly thereafter, the senát says that it wants the government to start supporting entrepreneurs on the principle of compensation of all - once again, I point out all - proven costs. When I say everybody, I understand it's 100 percent, maybe I'm wrong, but at least that's how I read it. And the coalition of the COO, to be fair, believes. Yes, the SPOLU coalition believed in simple targeted rapid assistance to all entrepreneurs without exception and businessmen and thanks to the compensation law and so on, they wanted to compensate for 100 percent of fixed costs. 100 per cent of fixed costs. And then the pirát and STAN alarm and criticize that they want all companies to help. Mr. Ferjenčík, the pirát, called on Havlíček to improve the conditions. We just didn't have as many resources, we gave about 50 percent, he wanted 70 percent. And today's finance minister, then the chairman of the MP's club and chief of the House Committee for the Support of Entrepreneurs, thought and said: "The paid direct aid is small. It could have been bigger and should have been bigger. You must try harder, Mr. Warden." And now the Minister of Industry will come and say that the support was too big and that she was too much of a helicopter. Yes, she was a helicopter because we had to support 700,000 subjects. Ninety-nine percent of them were small and medium-sized companies and businessmen. And we had to do it over the horizon for months. Yes, I agree that something was slow, I agree that it was no glory at first. Then we got into it. So if we are being criticized today for our support being too broad and too large and for everyone, then it's exactly what the opposition wanted, with only one difference - it wasn't so big because we didn't have enough resources to do it. What position are the companies in today? Let's just imagine it and come out here for a while from this enclosed space of the Chamber of Deputies, our friends and friends, the banking environment and so on and try to think about what these companies are experiencing today. Energy prices are rising in a fundamental way. Increasing interest rates thanks to central bank policy, which is applauded by the current coalition, as I have registered. Those commercial interest rates are getting to 5% today, and it won't take long, and the mortgages will go to 7 percent. As a result, those who export get into a difficult situation because they strengthen the koruna and still face the cod, perhaps post-covide period, that is, ever more and more with lower demand. And at this point, when we only wanted one thing, from half of December, when we handed over the office, or the authorities, to get support for November and December, covid support in the context of what we've been doing all along, and in the context of what you've been looking at us for - and now I'm looking at the right side of the House - calling for support to do what I just imagined. The first reaction of the Ministry of Industry and Trade: there will be nothing, there will simply be no money. The second reaction after the enormous pressure of us as opposition, but also of entrepreneurs - and logically I know that from them, because I do not want to say in daily contact with those associations and associations, but I communicate with them several times a week and they tell me quite precisely how these negotiations are going. So after the great pressure and fear of the current coalition that the entrepreneur wanted to throw the Ministry of Industry and Trade overboard, it started to invent something quickly with only one goal: don't let it be Havlíčkův's programs. Okay, well, you don't have to be conceited, whatever programs they are, that's not important. If they were decent, fast and good, whatever they call themselves. That's how it was prepared. But since it wasn't Havlíčkův's programs, they weren't notified, so the genius of the idea was that the 3 billion that the government decided to set aside would be created on the basis of a new programme - the so-called de minimis. Total nonsense, because that's what you do in the beginning. De minimis would de facto remove most of those already receiving support from the game. So once again, the entrepreneurs called, we had to alarm again what could be alarmed. And I have to say correctly that the Ministry of Industry and Trade finally came up with some pretty good programs after two months. And, world, wonder, they're basically the same as we passed on halfway through December. They're not exactly the same to be precise, and I don't blame the government for reducing the programs in this case because I've always said that: use the programs that are, and adjust the parameters, give the support a little less. We proposed 70 percent, the government decided 50 percent. Okay. In my opinion they are not prepared badly, there is less money going than we predicted, we were expecting 6 to 7 billion, which we had in the budget reserve, eventually it may be 5 billion, but I think that is not such a big difference, and again I say those programs are not prepared badly. Energy. Again, let's look at what's been going on here in the last two months. I don't want to go back on why there are higher energy prices. I believe that everyone knows this, and it is not the current government that is responsible for them or the past, it is simply because of the global energy crisis and I believe that you know the reasons well. But what is important to know is that energy support has to be based on some numbers. In the Czech Republic, it is a long-term analysis of the University of Economics and the TACR, between 500 and 700 thousand households that are at the limit of energy poverty. That's just a fact. It's a sort of calculation that's publicly available today. We have therefore criticised the fact that the government has decided to go with targeted support only for 200-250 thousand households. But if it were at least the 200-250 thousand households. The fact that we're boasting today that after a month of announcing it, when the big pomp was introduced, 21,000 subjects came forward, everyone has to see that they're debacles, that's just a fiasco. What we have pointed out is that this housing aid will not be comfortable, that it is bureaucratic, that it is undignified, and that, among other things, only a third of households are using the housing allowance today. It's just these people don't come for the support. That is why we have proposed this since the half of December - and even for that November, December, when it was still in our jurisdiction, we have approved it this way - the area support to which one European country after another is now leaning. And it fell today, and I'm not gonna repeat the countries that did it again. Let us just take the view that the countries around us, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, Germany, have all put in place area support. Yes, the area support can be different, it can be through VAT, it can be through renewable resources. At least once we would show that we can also return the solar tunnel to the residents and companies, which was caused by the predecessors of the current coalition in 2009-2010 and which will cost us 600 billion crowns! [[Mr. Blaha off the mic: They were your coalition partners.]] No, Mr. Ambassador. If you look in detail - and I didn't want to say it right now, but when you reacted, I have to say it. So one good news specifically for the ODS and then one bad news. The break in this solar tunnel came in two votes. The first in 2005, when it was decided whether to retreat by 10 % or by 5 %. And at that time, all those who were misbehaved suggested a concession of only 5%, not ODS, which was right on that side to make it 10 percent. Everything turned around in 2010, when the Chamber of Deputies here decided on an absolutely fundamental further procedure, when it was supposed to decide in April that the outrageous support that was going to be put to an end in April, after which, despite the great pressure, someone suggested that it would shift to the end of the year. So space was created between April 2010 and December 2010 to bring about this huge boom and to pay for support at the level of CZK 12 to 13 per kilowatt hour, which was ten times more than the market price at that time! That's exactly what happened! [[13.20 hours]] And please let's ask who voted in favour then. Everyone who was here, including the ODS. I don't remember all the others after that, so I don't forget someone here. To be precise, a Member of the ODS voted against at the time. I'm not going to name him, please check the record, but I still don't know why he voted no. But it doesn't matter that one. The important thing is that the tunnel occurred in 2010 by voting for this House. That tunnel will cost us 600 billion crowns. I didn't want to mention it, but when the MP here suggested that I don't use it, I took a little advantage of it. And the 600 billion crowns that will generate from that photovoltaicist 2.6 percent of energy resources is what undoubtedly bothers us all. And we had the opportunity to forgive them at least once a year, maybe two of these fees. Just like they did in Germany, but they didn't do it there because of the solar tunnel. That's where they did it because they wanted to be helpful and that they wanted to help the residents and the companies. The third option, which is, is the option that Austria is taking. It's through the post. And here I have to say, and I quite liked it, the proposal prepared by the pirát, and it's a proposal through a contribution which, mathematically, is nothing more than the forgiveness of those renewable resources. Either I give it to someone or I forgive them. It doesn't matter. But it doesn't matter. I take it, it's an option, it's not a bad option at all. I'm just saying that the contribution, as the Pirates suggested, would total CZK 50 billion. So I'm not quite sure that the government coalition will be able to hear about this. In my opinion, it's too much. The contribution through renewable resources and his forgiveness is even easier, because I don't have to pay anyone anything, I just forgive him for something. And then there's the last road, the surface road, there's nothing else to come up with, and that's a higher degree of regulatory. To put it simply, a price cap. Few countries in Europe have gone this way. If I have the right notes, it's Slovakia, it's Hungary, it's Bulgaria, and part of the way goes the UK, but there's a little different constellation, I don't want to go into detail. In any case, of course, the regulation has its minuses. It can be done by the fact that the price is really going to go down, so the people, the companies buy electricity or energy cheaper, but logically somebody has to pay for it, of course. And that someone is the state again. So they're some kind of dimensional tools that can be used. And I wouldn't stand by being combined with those social support tools. Finally, we have prepared extraordinary immediate assistance during our government, and the housing aid is basically nothing more than the updated assistance that has always been here, except that it has, in my opinion, been able to provide better parameters. But this aid is certainly not enough in itself, which, I say repeatedly, we see that the interest is minimal. If that was the goal and this was the way to save the state budget, then we're going the right way. The last thing I would like to focus on is the promotion of energy for companies, which, like in the first part of the so-called commercial covido support, were completely overboard, no one was thinking about them at all, and let us be aware that we have companies here that have several times higher energy costs. And now I'm not saying that with regard to whether or not they were at Bohemia Energy, that's a short-term problem. The long-term is that energy prices rise by 30 to 70 percent. And here is the answer to what he did not even ask, but what Mr Deputy Prime Minister Jurečka said, through Madam President, that it would not be much help to those households either, our flat instruments. So if it gets higher by 30 to 70 per cent and we allow our instruments to reduce by 25 to 30, maybe 33 per cent, it's definitely not bad help, but it's fair help. I do not agree that it is said that it is help that will help certain elites. So from this government, which is explicitly elitistly oriented, this, first of all, does not seem quite the right assessment, but 85 percent of households will be helped for the next. Yes, the 15%, they might not even feel it. If we resign from this aid, which is nothing but otherwise wrapped tax aid, that means that certain taxes will be forgiven, then what is fairer than forgiving them all? Then 15 percent of the richer will take 85 percent hostage? But back to what I wanted to do. Companies were completely suited overboard over energy support, although cost inflation, which is undoubtedly one of the key factors today that inflation is what it is, is what it is? It comes from high energy prices entering product prices and those companies have to make them more expensive. And they're going to cost them no matter if the central bank makes a policy like this or something, just because it's at their expense. That is why Germany has record inflation, which is why record America has it and so on. And how did we meet these companies? Nothing! Nevertheless, I thought that today, because the press conference of the Ministers of Labour and Social Affairs and Finance, the Deputy Finance Minister, was annotated, so that we could learn something new there. Like yesterday, the government came up with the fact that it finally came after the big pressure and the hype and the sensible support for those entrepreneurs. And what did we learn about the companies? That we'd help them at a better interest rate. The only support for companies through a better interest rate. If we criticize, we have a solution. The first solution is forgiveness of renewable resources or partial abandonment. The second solution is to use the resources we have from emission allowances and, despite these resources, which will be in the order of CZK 100 billion and will be significantly higher than expected and used to support companies. But they could also be used to support households. But to companies that, ladies and gentlemen, and by that end, have several times the price of electricity, or, in general, energy, we will offer companies a better interest rate, so it is about as if the drowning one has its head under the water, out of the straw, which sits a bird for a while, so we would come up with the support of giving it a pretty good plastic straw for paper and we would tell him that it is ecological. [[when]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u35	Thank you, too. The last one registered with priority rights is Vice-President Jan Skopeček. Before I give him my word, I'd take the liberty of reading one apology. The Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Jozef Síkela, apologizes from part of today's meeting between 13 and 15.30 hours due to a working meeting with representatives of the European Commission. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u36	Thanks for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to be too short, too slow. According to the information, I'm the last logged in. I think we all need to get some rest after the marathon, but let me respond. Without wanting to show who has what education and who has studied the school, I happen to have the same as my colleague, Babiš, as my colleague, Minister of Industry and Trade. And there was a lot of talk about inflation. Mr Babiš said that the Minister does not understand that we do not understand that inflation is here because of energy prices. Partly, yes. Of course, today, energy is pulling inflation up, but it is far from just the price of energy that has pulled today's inflation up to 10 percent. If you look, and our statisticians can do that, Mr Babiš here has read the press releases of the Czech Statistical Office, he can easily find that if he cleared the last issue of January inflation, the 9.9 percent, of the energy prices that are included in inflation together with the cost of housing, then even without the increase in energy prices, he would find that inflation would move at a level of about 8 percent, which is significantly more than the Czech National Bank's target, and what is considered to be a viable, rational, optimal rate of inflation in the economic community, i.e. the 2% that the Czech National Bank is trying to target inflation, and which has not succeeded in recent times. [[13.30 hours]] So please let's finally leave the untrue, the lie that only the price of energy is responsible for inflation, even if it is a very significant factor today. Even without rising energy prices, inflation would be at 8 percent, which is something that we must not accept, and we must not put it on such genius economic councils as Mrs Schillerová gives us, that we should abandon inflation, that we should let it go, that it will leave itself. Well, she's not leaving alone. If we do nothing, then the 8 or 10 percent people will start counting, entrepreneurs will start counting into their prices, people into their contracts, into their price expectations, and we would never get rid of inflation, because we would disrupt our inflation expectations and expect inflation like this in the coming years. I was here often a great critic of the Czech National Bank, her efforts to take further and further powers, in which the previous government, Prime Minister Babiš and Minister Schillerová, helped the Czech National Bank very much. In the past, they have helped to acquire new and new instruments by which the Czech National Bank can create a relaxed monetary policy, and today they criticize the Czech National Bank for starting to do what it has to do, namely monetary policy, to raise interest rates when inflation has simply driven itself to levels where I believe we must not allow it to be nested. So I would like to stand up for the Czech National Bank. An increase in interest rates is a necessary step towards managing inflation, although I personally do not agree with the speed and intensity of the Czech National Bank's doing so. It is also true that the previous government of Andrej Babiš contributed to the high inflation that we have not only because of energy prices, because even if we can debate and argue...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u37	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, I have to step in. First of all, the right part of this wing - please, if you need to take care of something, go to the lobby. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u38	Thank you very much. Even if we can argue about what causes inflation, so dominantly, of course, inflation causes a lot of money in the economy. This, of course, is largely the responsibility of the central bank's monetary policy, but the fiscal policy of the previous government, where not only because of covid over the last few years public spending has increased from 1.2 to 1.9 trillion crowns, is simply a significant factor that has helped to turn inflation into the heights in which they are today. So Babišův's government first blew inflation, and then, through public budgets, tried to bribe some groups by giving them more tax money. So the Czech National Bank needs to stand up for itself today, even if it has its share of blame on how high inflation is today. However, it is a little unfortunate that we do not know how to distinguish inflation like the growth of all prices and we interfere with, although important, the factor in energy price growth, which is certainly important, which we must take seriously, we must take this seriously separately from the fact that we are one of the world's most industrial economies, and at a time when energy prices will evolve in the Czech Republic and throughout the European space as they evolve, and especially in the Czech Republic it will be at far greater costs than it will affect economies that need to be more built on the service sector than the Czech Republic, where there is a significant share or a very significant share of the Czech industry. We must also say that energy prices and what is happening to them are not market failures. Energy is no longer a field or an area where market forces would decide. It is a very politicised, state intervention and regulation-distorted sector where, unfortunately, we cannot expect a solution from the market. Much of the increase in energy prices, albeit not the only one, even though, of course, complicated international situations, the tensions between Ukraine and Russia contribute to this, but a large part of why energy prices are where they are, are earlier political steps and current political steps, if we generalise this, especially in the green policy. Whether we are here in the Chamber of Deputies arguing about whether it is better to deal with the crisis by helping across borders or prefering to help groups only at risk through social policy, we all have to admit that we are only dealing with the consequences. As a result of what is happening with energy in the European and world context, how quickly we irrationally tried to get policy towards renewable resources, how quickly we are leaving stable resources, traditional stable energy resources, without having a stable competitive and cost-acceptable option for them. I have criticized the Prime Minister x-times for agreeing with Green Deal at European Union level in December 2019. I'm going to keep doing this because I think it's going to be another factor that's going to make energy prices more expensive. And if we do not try to apply this framework in the Czech Republic through regulations and directives so that we can negotiate as many conditions as possible that will be advantageous for the Czech industry, for Czech businesses, for Czech consumers, I am afraid that today we are not here for the last time in connection with energy prices, but that we will meet here in the future. Because it cannot be assumed that if something systemic does not happen with emission allowances prices, with the system, if we do not move forward in the Czech Republic, but also in the surrounding European countries, we need to build nuclear power plants that will be a stable source, that we will not just rely on gas that is unstable, expensive and environmentally, as many experts say, in the same way as other traditional sources of climate. So these are topics that, in my view, will require a whole range of very complex international negotiations from the current government, so that we negotiate the best possible conditions for the Czech Republic to move our energy to cleaner sources, so that it is more cost-effective for both consumers and our companies. If we do not do this, we will only address the consequences and argue whether we should use tax policy instruments or any social policy instruments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u39	Thank you, too. That was the last logged in with the priority right to set the 10th meeting. I'm gonna ask if anybody else is checking in? I don't see anyone. I will sing because we will now vote on the whole proposal for a programme of the 10th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. There's a motion to check out. I'm going to sign you all out and ask you all to sign up with your voting cards. I will wait for the numbers to be settled and for all other Members to run out. Do we all know what we're going to vote on? About the draft agenda of the 10th meeting, as submitted in writing, with the two points. At this point, I will take the liberty of taking a vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Who abstained? Thank you. Voting number 2, 169 Members registered, for 79, against 87. The motion was not accepted. This has not approved the agenda for today's meeting. That concludes the 10th meeting, but I still have priority rights here, so she prefers Mrs. Alena Schillerová, chairwoman of the club of the ANO movement. [[Vice-President Bartošek]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u40	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, thank you, Vice-President, for your priority. Just very briefly. Since it has turned out the way we expected, unfortunately, for the citizens of this country, I would like to say that the members of the ANO movement have three parliamentary proposals prepared. One is for VAT reduction, for the promotion of renewable resources for each Czech household and for drawing from the Modernisation Fund, which we will immediately put into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u41	Thank you, too. Furthermore, with priority rights, Vice-President Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, what I have to say concerns, above all, the Club Presidents and the functioning of clubs and priority rights. You have witnessed today, and I assume that this was not the intention, however, Mrs Schillerová apologized, was represented by Vice-President Havlíček, again with priority rights. After Mr Havlíček spoke, the Minister, the former Minister of Finance, returned to the hall and it raises needless questions as to whether this is a special apology. [[Laughter, screams.]] I suppose that wasn't the case in this case. In any case, we will have to focus on this on the leadership of the House with the representation of all club presidents, how we will deal with this, so that it does not really happen that only apologizes to a part of the club presidents in order to give rise to the possibility of a preferential right for another person. I'm actually saying this with the fact that it's a system thing. [[I'll ask for peace in the hall!]] And I'm saying that we're going to discuss this because we talked about it as the House's leadership, to introduce a universal rule that will apply across all the clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u43	Thank you, too. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is still applying for priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. So, Prime Minister Schillerová loves and talks about herself very much. Why not, we're all one. What we saw was a clear violation of the rules and a foul. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] No problem, no problem... [[Pounding to the bench in the left side of the meeting hall, the noise persists.]] Well, you can smash all you want. [[Notes are made from a group of standing Members on the left of the speaker's counter.]] What are you yelling at me for? I would ask the Vice-President not to be yelled at and insulted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u45	I would ask all Members to calm down, to remain calm in the hall, and at this moment, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura speaks with priority law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u46	It is not a problem that the Vice-President of the Club of Deputies, in this case Karel Havlíček, spoke on the same item on the same agenda, the club chair. Of course it was intent. Of course it was a foul. The Prime Minister came right back. If she hadn't performed with priority rights, but Mr. Karel Havlíček, there wouldn't be any problem. But this way we can move it like a dog. I don't know how many Vice-Presidents your club has. Mr Karel Havlíček could also apologize in writing, another vice-chairman would come over and over and over again. It's not supposed to work like this. If you're saying that at some point I've been excused and stepped out by someone else, one of my Vice-Presidents, yes, that's true, but in that case, I didn't perform anymore. So you had two club presidents at the same time! It's not fair, it's just a foul! I believe we can agree on the leadership of the House that it will not happen again. The fact that one is performing and the club decides who, for example, according to the issue, that's perfectly legitimate and okay. But they can't pass it on like a dog over and over again. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u47	Thank you. She still wants to respond to the Chairman of the ANO Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u48	Well, I'm just gonna be happy if we talk about it at the grémia or at the club president's meeting. I wasn't here. I was excused, so I didn't notice the debate. I'm just feeling it now. I was -- there were two points, Minister. Two points. There were two points in the program. I was performing to one, I left, I apologized in writing to the President. Neither was the first Vice-President Faltýnek here, and he represented me with priority rights, Mr Havlíček, who - but I did not perform after that. I didn't get out after that. Excuse me, I remember, Minister, I remember the time when you were the President of the House of Deputies and your Vice-President was Mrs. Černochová, and there was a time when you weren't here during the day and she was here, and no one saw the problem. We don't do astronomers. We don't do the clock. That means, it's not like an hour one vice president, another hour two. Not the clock. That's what you said. But Mr. Havlíček represented me at the moment on the basis of a written apology, and I didn't perform after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u49	So I would like to ask again for peace in the hall, and I would like to draw attention first of all to the performance by Jan Bartošek, who said that the House's leadership will also deal with these things. I think he's made it pretty clear, but there are still two priority rights. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and also reported to Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u50	If we had an approved program and at every point, with priority rights for the club's chairman, someone else would have stepped forward, I don't. I told you in advance. But it's one thing. It's for the draft program. So it's not - there could have been 17 points in the draft agenda. That's the problem. I mean, I made it clear that you were talking to one priority right on one thing or two. It's just not fair. Well, I think that's easy to clarify, and that's how we're gonna keep it. There's no problem with someone else getting off to a specific point when the club chairman isn't here. So reminding me that Jana Černochová has done some points - yes. But I didn't perform for him. So there was one with priority rights as chairman of the club. And that's it. I think everyone who wants it just gets it. If we make a deal, if we even sign it, it'll be just fine. So the problem is, you two were talking about one thing. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-17-ps2021-010-01-000-000.u51	Well, thank you. Tomio Okamura downloaded the application. I hereby conclude the 10th meeting. Meet me tomorrow, Friday, February 18th, 9:00 p.m., when the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies begins. Have a nice afternoon, everyone. Thank you.
