ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u1	2. Law amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 /German press 284/4/ - returned by the President It is true that the point was placed at 18 o'clock, but not more than 18 o'clock with the agreement that we would start earlier. Since I haven't seen the Minister yet, the rapporteur is here, I see him, so I'm declaring a break for... Yes, I see the Minister now, so I don't have to call a break. The President of the Republic's position, stating his opposition to this law, has been delivered to you as Parliamentary press 284/5, and I first ask the plaintiff of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura whether he wants to comment on the President's position? [[Yes.]] Is the minister interested in speaking? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u2	So I assume that this is also about the press as a whole, not just about the President's position. [[Yes.]] Yes, so I think we discussed this amendment very closely in all three readings, and eventually the Chamber of Deputies approved it. So maybe I'll just mention the three basic numbers. The main reasons are the effects of the ongoing conflict in Ukraine and the effects of Russian aggression in Ukraine, I would call these things true names, the effects of high inflation, high energy prices, these are the basic reasons why the government has acceded to this amendment. Among other things, when we approved the state budget for 2022, some facts were not known, such as the second extraordinary pension valorisation. And now I could continue with the individual measures approved by both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, whether it was a temporary reduction in excise duty on fuel, whether it was the abolition of a substantial part of the road tax, whether it was a contribution of 5,000 per child under 18 years of age, and this is how I could continue. [[17.40 hours]] When I look at the President's statement, actually, I was commenting somewhere that the President's office had the wrong year. I do not know why we, as a government, should bear the consequences of the promise that the once unnamed president of the unnamed movement has made to the President of the temporary tax reduction for two years. But even if the promise had been fulfilled, it would not have been about the tax period of 2022, because this calendar year is the second year when employees have increased their income by an average of 7 % due to a lower income tax on dependent activities. It should be recalled that in fact, the costs went to the expense of only the state budget, and not to the expense of regional or municipal budgets, so the reason is actually missing the material. I can't take him seriously because, first of all, we didn't make that promise. But I say, even if the promise had been fulfilled, it would have been about the material that we will discuss tomorrow, and that is the national budget for 2023. So for many reasons operational and budgetary, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to confirm their decision and overrule the President's veto. I suppose that on Friday the law could then go in the Collection of Laws so that the necessary expenses could be made without any problems next week, especially in the social field. Thank you for the introductory words, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask if the President's opinion is expressed by the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Bernard? [[I don't want to.]] She doesn't want to express herself, thank you. I hereby open the debate and have Mr Okamura signed in writing with priority, then President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a vote on the President's veto on the government's amendment to the state budget for this year, to which the Fialův Government is unnecessarily indebting the Czech Republic with a record of CZK 375 billion, even though it has roughly 127 billion higher tax revenues year on year due to high prices of energy, fuel, food and other goods and services. The SPD is refusing this unprecedented debt to our state, which is gambling with its future. The Fialův Government has falsely promised the citizens an investigation and budgetary responsibility before the elections, but in fact, in the four years of its assumed term, it wants to owe the Czech Republic more than CZK 1 trillion, namely CZK 1.2 trillion, which can cause huge financial problems for the Czech Republic and citizens of the Czech Republic, when it may no longer be necessary to ensure adequate health care, to provide basic social services and to decent pensions. In fact, Petr Fiala's government does everything on debt. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS proposes an increase in this year's state budget deficit, and thus state debt, although, as I have already said, it has higher tax revenues. This means, in other words, despite the fact that it has received much more money from the citizens of the Czech Republic and the companies. This is totally unacceptable, as is the draft budget deficit for 2023, which we will discuss here tomorrow, in the amount of CZK -295 billion. Government budget deficits need to be reduced by increasing revenue and reducing unnecessary expenditure. Members of the SPD will not support this structured state budget this year, in addition, in a situation where the government spends tens of billions on Ukraine and Ukraine living in the Czech Republic, on various political non-profit organizations and on various other expenditures, but at the same time does not have money for Czech citizens. We will certainly not support this even in this atmosphere, when the ministers of the government of Petr Fiala openly speak about this in the media, that they want to increase taxes on Czech citizens. Minister Jurečka, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL, talks about increasing social services to elderly and disabled citizens from January onwards. You are talking about this - Minister Stanjura here for ODS, Minister of Finance, says that he wants to reduce parental families with children and reduce parental leave, thereby reducing the amount of money to support the education of children and working families, so you want to rob working families with children. Then you talk about it - Minister Válek of the TOP 09 openly talks about introducing double quality health care, or changing the standard of health care, or translating it, making the current standard worse and moving some care into excess. That means poorer citizens will have worse care and richer - or the rich - will have better care. These are all unacceptable proposals for the SPD. But the debate that the government coalition is already developing here is really unacceptable in a situation where, on the one hand, you are throwing tens of billions out of the Czech Republic in the name of America, Brussels, Kiev, Berlin, you have always made promises, but there is no money left for Czech citizens. And that's actually what this whole budget of yours and the budget you're planning for next year. So this situation, where there is no money left to really support Czech citizens and Czech companies - and I am not talking about the fact that Minister Jurečka, Minister of Social Affairs and Chairman of KDU-ČSL, on behalf of the government, says that you will reduce unemployment support, and yet he has messed up how incompetent it is because he says that it will reduce money inadaptable, or what it has just been going on somewhere and mixed up benefits in material distress with unemployment support. This is the very peak when he simply mixed apples with pears, because unemployment insurance is often paid by working people for decades for that very moment in case they lose their jobs for a while, and now Petr Fiala's government wants to rob citizens of insurance premiums that they honestly took from their wages. This really is a complete peak, and you're still confusing it here with that with the benefits in material distress. You, on the other hand, support the inadaptables, because this year you have rejected the SPD bill to end the abuse of unadaptables, so you support the inadaptables, continue to pay them up to a billion crowns. That's what the budget is, and you just keep doing it, and it's supposed to get even higher, but decent people, you want to rob, those who have paid their unemployment insurance. This is an incredible situation that you're doing in that budget. That means this series of your proposals, which we have only heard in the last ten days, which the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and President of KDU-ČSL Jurečka and Minister Stanjura have presented in the media, is antisocial. You have all the antisocial proposals against the Czech decent and working people and so is structured this budget of yours. So once again, this is totally unacceptable for the SPD, because for us in the SPD, the Czech Republic and the Czech decent citizens are in the first place, unlike your government. As I was saying, you're still giving it a crown by saying that for the years 2024 and 2025, the Fialův Government here, in the form of Minister Stanjur of ODS, proposes deficits of 250 billion crowns, which means further deficits, which would mean, as I said, in four years of the Fialův Government, the growth of the state's debt by approximately 1.2 trillion crowns. It's an astronomical housenumer, it's a Greek script, it's just a debt service. This will cost the Czech state and Czech citizens such an exorbitant money that any other government will find it hard to dig up because of your government. This is simply an unacceptable gamble that will bring about huge social and economic problems for our country, endanger the social security of citizens and the payment of pensions. The government will continue to act pro-inflationally and thereby make the SPD more expensive, so the constant increase in public finance deficits is totally unacceptable. We are in favour of balanced management of the state, balanced or surplus state budgets. To that - I understand that in times of crisis it is sometimes necessary to be in debt, but everything must be based on the fact that the budget simply stands up to cut off the necessary expenditures which do not go to Czech citizens and Czech companies. All the expenses that go somewhere else, they just have to touch and cut them up, but you don't do that. You don't do that. You put hundreds of billions of crowns on all kinds of nonsense that - just from them a Czech citizen who is now in an energy crisis and who doesn't even have the money to ensure, for example, the running of the household - I've already talked about it today, they're at least hundreds of thousands of citizens - so you're not actually going to improve his life from that budget, but most importantly, you're pouring money around, and on debt. [[17.50 hours]] Of course, the highlight was the loan of another 10 billion in Ukrajinec living in the Czech Republic, at an interest of 0.5 billion a year, the loan of the European Development Bank, signed by the Interior Minister Austrian for the government on behalf of the government, now it's basically fourteen days, three weeks ago, it's in November. Well, it's absolutely incredible how you simply indebt, you owe Czech citizens, the Czech Republic, about us without us, and you send money into debt, first you borrow it on behalf of the Czech Republic and then you send it virtually somewhere else. So, in our opinion, such an economic government should immediately resign, not here in debt to the Czech Republic more and more, without restructuring the state budget, which was originally verbally promised before the elections, the deed has escaped. I don't know if Minister Stanjura forgot about it, or you haven't actually forgotten that, that was just a election lie from the coalition of the SPOLU. You just don't have the strength to do it, yeah, it was just big words, and the budget's starting to blow up. And just to conclude, and I would like to point it out here, I've already said today that because of your government, people are starting to commit suicide, they're already starting, blameless citizens have to resort to stealing food, see the case of this week when a 90-year-old senior on Strakonick was caught and arrested by the police because he took sausage and masox. It's just that the seniors who have worked their whole lives and lived decently are in such a desperate situation that they don't even have enough for basic food anymore. That's crazy, that's awful. And, of course, to this day, a number of the public is writing to me about how a 75-year-old senior committed suicide in front of the Office of the Government last month. There's flowers up to now. There's candles up to now. Of course, it was a political gesture, apparently, because this unfortunate event, this tragic event has become completely targeted before the Office of the Government, and you preferred to fence yourself with fences and barriers and barriers because you are afraid of citizens, you are already afraid of the wrath of citizens on how millions of citizens are already in desperate life situations, the number of new executions is rising, many citizens no longer have a way out because of your incompetent government. As I have already said, the increase in energy prices is even the highest of all the countries of the European Union, by more than 60 per cent in the reign of Petr Fiala, and I think that really in this atmosphere, I have recapitulated it a little now in the last week, ten days that have actually happened here in the last two weeks, what is happening in the Czech Republic, when even desperate old people must resort to theft of food in order to survive at all, but it doesn't move with you. It's not going anywhere with you, okay? That means, these are all the reasons for what I said here - I did a little bit of a good job, but I think it deserves a divorce - why we didn't support this state budget, this structured state budget of yours. We welcomed the President's veto, although for another reason, that is what I must say, because we do not agree with the President's reason for the veto, because thanks to the SPD's votes, thanks to the SPD's votes, the supergross wage was abolished in the last parliamentary term and we firmly stand by it, we firmly stand by it, that thanks to our votes, the working people have more money in their wallets, that was a good thing and it turned out that it was the right step, the right step, and of course I strongly disagree when someone says that the abolition of the supergross wage was wrong. That's not true, it's never wrong to leave decent and working people more money in their wallets. On the contrary, where there is a need to touch money, I have already described it here, there are unnecessary expenses which do not go to decent people and to our businesses, which pay taxes honestly and employ citizens. So this is what I really have to do here, this reason for the veto, we disagree, because we are - and we are happy - we had a super-gross wage cancellation program, and I'm glad we managed to get it through here together in the last parliamentary term. And I think they've welcomed it now, all citizens are happy to see the government of Petr Fiala, which doesn't actually give them any money, so now it turns out that it was a prudent suggestion that even with the votes of the SPD, citizens have at least a little more money in their wallets. So our reasons why we don't agree with the budget, that's what I said here. It is a different reason than what President Zeman said, but we agree that the budget is wrong, and I am glad that the President has also given the SPD's position to be true, albeit for another reason that the budget is simply flawed, it is simply unsatisfactory and we will not support such a budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next person to sign up is President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have now opened my cell phone and read there, I think it was Echo24: "The House is waiting for a long meeting today about the President's veto." Well, I don't think we're gonna have a long meeting. I don't think so, exactly, because what we wanted, we said at first, second and third reading, all the arguments were made here by us. As I saw today's debate at the Yes Group of Deputies, I will probably speak if someone hasn't changed their mind, just to sum up or to remind or to complete what was being said. No one expects, so it will not surprise anyone that we will not help the five-calice overrule this veto, that is probably logical, but we will not delay the negotiation of an amendment to the State Budget Act, although we have a number of reservations to it, I will sum it up now, but we will not slow them down, we will not do this on purpose, we will not take citizens and companies hostage, because this country needs a budget that we consider bad, but the wrong budget is also important for the functioning of the country. So let me state my position on behalf of the ANO movement club. I'll start by saying there's a lot of disillusionment. This should be precisely the point under which we should discuss the current draft state budget, the amendment to the State Budget Act of 2022, the government of Petr Fiala, the hard sobering after the misleading election campaign not only for a large part of the electorate of the current five-coal, but this disillusionment is also evident here in the Chamber of Deputies. So, as it turns out, the motto of Babišův's dearest - you remember, Babišův's dearest sounded before the election, in all the debates the Prime Minister mentioned it, today Prime Minister Petr Fiala, so that Babišův's dearest did not have anything to do with the government of Andrej Babiš. Similar sobering is also evident in the budgetary policy of the current government. State budgets, and here I will talk about the state budget for 2022 - but forgive me, I will mention 2023, even if I do not focus on it until tomorrow, when we have a second reading - they are drawn up for me miserably, irresponsiblely, completely forgetting any consolidation measures, they are using marketing efforts to reduce the state budget's deficit optically. In less than a year of your reign, you completely decloaked the great lie you fed the voters before the election. Your stories about fiscal consolidation are there, and your budgetary policy has a clear plan. You are planning to owe this country more than 1200 billion in the period of your government. [[18.00 hours]] The President's veto is already the last step before the adoption of the budget, which, despite the extremely high deficit, is throwing a large part of our population into major financial problems. And please don't repeat the non-really - I'm very polite, so I'm not really saying - that we're just saying opposition where to spend, and we're not saying where to take it, because it's not true. Unfortunately, we are getting to the stage, and we hear it, and we see it every day, when Czech households, as well as companies, live in the shadow of an impending financial collapse. Unfortunately, we are meeting here with the fact that there is an ordination and talk in public space about the 2008 2008 crisis scenario, 2009, when the ODS ruled together with the TOP 09, and their recipes for treating the crisis have led to a deepening of the economic crisis in the Czech Republic, and we have reached a time when the surrounding states were gaining their breath and began to get into economic growth, so we got into a new, shallower recession, then in 2011, 2012. Unfortunately, this government has forgotten valuable and expensive lessons from history and completely rejects one of the fundamental economic policy makers that cuts, or, if you wish, restrictive fiscal policies must take place at a time of economic expansion and economic boom, on the contrary, in times of crisis, in times of danger of poverty, an expansionary fiscal policy is appropriate. And now households, as well as Czech companies, are really at risk. Let's look at the data. The consumer confidence indicator has fallen to the lowest since the beginning of the survey and has humiliated its historical minimum for the third time this year. The highest in history are the concerns of Czech households about the deterioration of their own financial situation. Households are also very concerned about the development of the overall economic situation and the increase in unemployment. Great uncertainty about future development, lack of materials, worsening demand and high prices, this, in turn, worries Czech entrepreneurs. And to this we can add a decrease in confidence in the construction industry. The result is the fifth month-on-month decline in confidence in the business sector. This is a clear assessment of this government's policy. Our required support for Czech citizens and companies should be in the form of temporarily increased government expenditure. This support should aim to reduce the effects of the price increase on our citizens and companies. In these difficult times, it is extremely important that we do everything we can to start a full, real and fastest recovery from the current crisis situation. Of course, consolidation of public finances is also important, and I understand that as the former Minister of Finance, which has reached the surplus budget, and the argument that our government was lucky to have experienced economic growth, as I have sometimes heard, is totally unacceptable. Since the 1990s, hasn't this country experienced economic growth since the 1990s when it had to wait for budget surpluses until the YES movement is at the Ministry of Finance? To be fair, this has happened in the past during the reign of Václav Klaus. Our government managed to reduce the level of government debt from 40.4 percent of GDP to 30 percent and thus we created a financial cushion for the health and economic crisis. Covid was a combination of both, and we managed to maintain low employment, low unemployment, back, low unemployment - Czech companies, Czech households were able to recover quickly. And of course, most of all, we kept social reconciliation. Yes, debt increased in all EU countries during the entire health crisis, and the Czech Republic was similarly, but the increase in this debt was average compared to other EU countries. But we still left the Treasury with lower debt relative to GDP than we did when we took over this resort. Thanks to our government's policy, we still have the lowest unemployment rate in all EU countries, and we all benefit from low unemployment, including the current five-calice, because an employed person means tax revenue for the state budget, pays insurance premiums and, at the same time, consumes more, so you grow VAT, excise tax and so on, get public budgets, we all know it well. On the contrary, the unemployed person is receiving unemployment aid, which increases, puts pressure on state budget spending, but, at the same time, unemployment is accompanied by a number of other problems that we politicians should be aware of. I'll take a short historical tour. The beginning of Petr Fiala's reign, Petr Fiala's government, was already connected with extraordinary and apparently completely unnecessary chaos and confusion. The historically longest budget provisional that this five-calice has thrown us into has brought nothing positive, so I was struck by the words of Minister Stanjura - we were debating together on Sunday - that nothing really happened and that it did not cause any problems. It did, Mr. Secretary. It caused chaos in public institutions that did not know what funds they could expect in the current year, and at the same time, its impact - I mean outside the creation of chaos in public institutions - was completely minimal. The savings that you have reached, which we have agreed here, that were 34 billion on the spending side, certainly not worth the long, extremely long budget make-up. But, of course, if it were reasonable savings, I would be the first to openly support the draft state budget. Unfortunately, however, the cuts were stupid, threatening health care, and especially marketing. To a large extent, it was a cut-off of real expenditure, which turned out to be when the State Budget Act for this year was tabled. So these cuts had nothing to do with increasing the efficiency of the public sector, eliminating unnecessary spending, reducing the size of the grey economy or reducing the structural balance. None of this was in this budget, and I looked very carefully. I have already pointed out from this point of view, at the various readings of this budget, that it is absolutely necessary that the Minister of Finance present his amendment in some real time. And I must also say that while the initial draft state budget for 2022 brought some sort of marketing effort for savings, the amendment to the state budget completely gave up on this ambition, it forgot about it. That is why, at the beginning of today's speech, I was talking about disillusionment, sobering, disillusionment, not to mention a reduction in the structural deficit, I'm talking about one-time operations. Unfortunately, the five-wheelers forgot all about it. But most importantly, she hasn't forgotten the cancellation of the EET, which will cost the Treasury tens of billions of crowns less. Of course they remembered the reduction in gambling tax, but we've already told each other all this. [[18.10 hours]] For the first time in history, state budget spending will exceed CZK 2 trillion, so it does not really seem optimistic to me. The budget amendment itself, in the vast majority, adds only a minimum legal level to spending and really underestimates investment, does not address the housing crisis, and fails to address the energy crisis and expensiveness. It's not done well. That's why we have the President's veto here. The President is talking about the income side, he's talking about canceling the super-gross wage. Yes, I repeat, once again, that there was a political commitment that interfered with the explanatory report that talked about us going back to the tax mix after two years. It was not legislative to say that - I will repeat this in detail again, Minister, because we clearly disagreed on Sunday - it was not possible to write in the legislation that the provisions that had taken place as soon as they entered into force, an integral part of the Income Tax Act, would only apply for two years. Yes, it could be written - I agree, I had so little space on Sunday to argue with you that I still have to add it here - so yes, it could be written that it would be in 2021, 2022 15 %a in 2023 and the next will be 17 and 19. Why would you raise your hand? That's right. So we had to, we wanted to get rid of the super gross wage, the scam that once happened because 15% tax was promised, then it didn't work out, so this tax system was just introduced. Yes, we voted for it together. As mentioned here, the SPD raised its hand for it. And we have never regretted that step at all as an YES movement, that people could create a certain reserve of 7 percent of the net wage that they have left and that is helping them to overcome this severe crisis today. But I think that the President basically sent a message, because it is true that the commitment that was involved in the explanatory report was for 2021, 2022. And I think that he sent a message that he didn't see - because if there were to be any consolidation of public finances, then the legislation that would have had an impact on the structural deficit change would have to take place now in order to be effective since 2023, which means, I think he sent a message that he didn't see any consolidation of public finances. But we're already in 2023 and we'll be doing this again tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u7	Thank you, and I can see further into the debate that Mr Volný is in. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, coworkers, I'm not gonna be long, I'm just gonna sigh here, which I've been doing more than a lot lately. The President returned this press because he thinks there are small incomes and that the abolished supergross wage should be addressed, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. I think he meant it sincerely and that this was indeed the reason why he returned this amendment or this law. But the more I got scared of how the parties responded to it, like the TOP 09, which was against the cancellation of the EET, for a reason. I don't want to criticize whether it was right or right, we were in favour and I think it was right, but why the party that voted in favour - and I think it didn't feel right - reacted quite unstandardly: That's certainly not why the President returned it, that was definitely the 25 million we took from Lán. Colleagues, I don't think so. But I want to get to that, because I think it was proof - that it was taken from Lán 25 million or 30, I don't know exactly how much, thoughtlessly, without saying: It's to less feed the animals so they don't build fences so they don't fix it and that. It's just that there was a $25 million cut because this Balák guy is some suspicious felon who was pardoned by the president. That's not how you do it. [[The noise in the room persists.]] You want to run this state, yet you resort to such petty personal interests. And I'm a little sorry about the Minister of Finance, whom I really appreciated in the past period when he was in opposition, and when the pirát came, if they took the Castle 3 million, and they didn't say exactly where, then he and Mr Kalousek, who I think they didn't love Mr Zeman and the Castle, always or mostly voted against this reduction because they said, "There's no reason why we don't see it when it's not exactly named. And this time they nodded to the fact that 25 million, or as much as it was, 25 I suspect, would take the Castle from Lán without saying what title, that means what it's taken from. And I don't want to mention it here anymore, because it's a disgrace to the budget committee, too, that the money came from a budget where the money was no longer there, because by the end of the year, it was largely spent, and then it had to end... but I really don't want to get involved. I think the fact that it's decided this incompetence that money is being taken somewhere just that Balák is a suspect - gentlemen, that's really not the way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u9	I thank you and ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? Not interested. In that case, I am done with the debate. And I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word? Yes. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] And I'd like everyone in the room to keep their voices down, or move the discussion to the lobby. I ask everyone to keep their voice down once more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. Just to discuss the reasons for the presidential veto. I didn't comment, I didn't speculate, I just said the law was returned to the government that didn't give the promise to the president of the Republic. And to say exactly what happened then, it is black and white, so allow me to quote from Mr Andrej Babiš's amendment to the House press 910, which was the tax package that came out in the Collection on New Year's Eve 2020 and was valid, effective as of 1 January. The amendment is relatively long, and the explanatory memorandum is relatively long, and I quote the first sentence of the second paragraph: "This reduction is intended only as a temporary one for two years." So that's the thing the President of the Republic leaned on in his official statement. I was saying that even if those who promised did at the time, at least by proposing it, because perhaps - well, perhaps, there was such a strange time when there were two parties in the government and a third party in addition to the government, and a substantial change in the tax system was pronounced by part of the opposition with part of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u11	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to interrupt you and ask everyone in the room to keep their voices down! One more time, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u12	But even if it did, it was already about, as I said, the year 2023, and not the budget of 2022. Maybe we'll find out again that it could be 2023, but for us, I say we deliberately voted in favour, we don't regret it. And I also answer the questions of journalists, I have not noticed a single political party or movement in this Chamber of Deputies, which would have a different opinion and would have suggested increasing taxes on dependent activities. So if we didn't promise such a thing to the President of the Republic or to our constituents, then no one can expect us to propose such a thing. Yes, it is true that we would not vote for such a proposal, but we were not consulted. No one asked us to make a promise to the President of the Republic from the opposition benches. It's that simple. I'm not making any more comments, I'm just saying that the reason for the veto is strange, because I still understand if the President of the Republic vetoed it to the government or politicians who promised him, but not to those who never promised him. But I take that as a fact. Basically, it's just some technical delay, nothing dramatic by meeting here today after the legal deadline has passed, when we can discuss the amendment proposal, it hasn't happened. I didn't think I'd expect a long meeting, just because it's a veto. It is precisely because - I say, I have never called it into question, so if someone has announced it, does not know and cannot estimate the usual procedure and the usual debate in the Chamber of Deputies, because there is no new reality, nothing that we would not discuss, whether as support for this amendment or as arguments against this amendment, could not even be heard today. So once again, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, allow me to ask you, my dear colleagues, that the Chamber of Deputies should maintain its opinion and vote over the veto of the President of the Republic. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u13	Thank you for the final word. The rapporteur is giving up the final word, and I'm gonna go right ahead, because we're in the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic states that if the Chamber of Deputies insists on the passed law by an absolute majority of all Members, the law shall be declared. Otherwise, the law was not adopted. I have re-engaged and we will be voting here on the next motion for a resolution. I see an application for check-out here, so I'm gonna check you out. I will ask you to sign up, and in the meantime I will read: "The Chamber of Deputies insists on the law amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022, according to the Chamber of Press 284/4." Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 19, registered 181, in favour of the vote 103, was delayed against 73.5. Result: accepted. I state, then, the resolution... [[There's noise in the room, laughter.]] Mr. Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u14	Hello. It rarely happens to me, but I voted against, and I've got a pro on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-15-ps2021-045-01-006-002.u15	So we're going to vote to challenge the vote. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of questioning? Who's against it? Voting number 20, registered 184, for was 179, against no one. Result: accepted. So we're voting again. I will read once again: "The Chamber of Deputies insists on the law amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022, according to the House press 284/4." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, registered 184, in favour of 103, was delayed against 79.2. Result: accepted. I therefore state that the resolution has been adopted and the law will be declared. Thank you. And I'm starting another point number.
