ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u1	96. Government bill on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services /house printing 160/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, i.e. the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Robert Stržínek. The amendment is set out in Parliament's 160/4 press, which was delivered on 29 September 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 160/5. Now I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Is the Minister interested in speaking before the debate is opened? He doesn't. If it does not, I am opening up a debate in which the Minister is already claiming priority rights. In addition to the vote - Minister, I apologise, but the Member wishes to comment on the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to vote number 66, where I am high for voting in favour, but I voted against. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u3	Thank you, it's for the record. I am now giving the floor to the Minister in the debate on this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to brief the press today, just the most important information. We have had the opportunity here several times to discuss such big details. It is a draft law on the promotion of low-emission vehicles concerning the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services. This is the implementing regulation for the amended Directive 2009/33/EC on the promotion of clean, energy efficient road vehicles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u5	Sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u6	In fact, in its amendment text, this Directive requires Member States to ensure that certain fixed shares of low-emission vehicles in the schedule by 2005 and beyond are taken up in the procurement of road vehicles through over-the-counter public procurement. The proposal that lies here is intended to ensure this. I have mentioned this several times, the transposition deadline for the implementation of the amendment has already expired on 2 August last year, so it is one of the most pressing implementation debts of the previous period and proceedings have already been initiated against the Czech Republic for failure to comply with the Czech Republic's obligation to notify the transposition of the directive, and therefore we are in danger of immediate financial sanctions. It is very important, therefore, that the law be adopted as soon as possible, because any sanctions will depend on the delay of the transposition from the date to which it was binding. I would remind you, therefore, that if an action was brought that implementation was late, and even if we could finish it, the Czech Republic must pay by the time the action was brought. Therefore, the ambition was to discuss this press as soon as possible. I would just like to stress that, in the case of this proposal, this is a pure transposition, or the obligations contained in this amendment, do not make the requirements imposed by European law any more stringent. On the contrary, the Czech Republic has used every opportunity to mitigate the effects of this law. It is the possibility of individual exceptions, which are not covered by the legislation, whether it is the transport and the size of buses or the like, it will not involve any ambulances, which has sometimes been said, by fire vehicles or tanks, which I think has been pranked many times, it is definitely not a battery tank. We have also taken advantage of the possibility for contracting entities to fulfil the minimum share of low-emission vehicles together. These are, for example, cities that buy together, a city with pure bus traffic and a city that only has trolleybuses to allow the combinations. And, of course, the law gives the possibility to meet the requirements of the directive until the end of the reference period. Only one amendment has been tabled on the proposal, which is of a technical nature and with which I will be able to give my consent as the petitioner of the law. Other amendments are not even at second reading, and this discussion was primarily about whether or not this bill as a whole should be approved, not about its individual modifications. I would just like to say - and it has been said and I fully agree with this: this proposal is not an appropriate medium for a general debate on mobility, however, and I think that it is quite legitimate to debate, including how the issue of electromobility and the implementation of this law will develop in the case of other alternative or, say, cleaner drives, whether hydrogen or others, we have several years to support this change, which will just come one day, whether it is the MIT or another, as well as in the case of subsidization titles of European or good aims, let's say, national titles, if they will, in particular, accelerate the infrastructure investment that will take place in Europe and in the rest of the world, whether it is easier to place charging stations or pumping stations for specific propulsion in the cities in question, indeed the infrastructure that is also related to the gradual transition to electromobility that will take place in Europe and in the rest of the world is absolutely essential. It is therefore important to talk about this implementation in addition, then to accelerate the support of infrastructure development in the following years, which is fundamentally related to the modernisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u7	Thank you, too. Lochman and Král have now joined the debate. So I will now ask Mr Lochman for his speech, and I ask you, colleagues, if you have anything to do, whether you move to the lobby and keep the speakers more calm in the Chamber for more comfortable speaking. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u8	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As Chairman of the Transport Sub-Committee, I would like to comment briefly on this standard. As has already been said, this standard should have been discussed in the previous parliamentary term. It was to be transposed until 2 August 2021. We have been late for a year and two months, although the European Commission has extended this deadline to 6. 9. 2022, so we will not be able to make it and a penalty procedure has already been initiated against the Czech Republic. Here's where I'd like to say that we're gonna finish what the last House missed. We're fixing it, and at the same time it's obvious that if we had less obstruction, we'd make it faster. I would like to ask that, even in the case of all other transpositions and international treaties, we try to keep those deadlines to the maximum, otherwise we ourselves bring our republic to the unpleasant moments when the penalty proceedings are taking place, and indeed now this House is correcting the earlier mistake. It's about the trial. Some of my colleagues asked me if we were last or not. Well, friends, yes, we're last. Within the EU, only Bulgaria and Hungary have remained with us, which have not yet transposed this standard, so they have not adopted it into their legal order, because they do not have the law, so they create a special law. We can make the amendment, but it took us the longest time, so in this we have a really crappy victory, because it didn't get approved in the last parliamentary term. [[9.20 hours]] Otherwise, I would like to add to the content that we all want to breathe fresh air, we all want public transport in cities not to produce too much emissions, so this is definitely the right direction. However, I have consulted several operators, several municipalities, cities, public transport operators, and I have to point out here that by delaying and approving this significantly later, we also need to realise that some municipalities, some cities that only operate by bus transport, may have a problem with the timetable, because they will have to compete for 2025 next year. Larger cities with rail transport or trolleybuses will fill that standard. Those who do not have it may have a problem with their compliance with the standard simply having difficulty following it because they have diesel buses, even if they have very high, high or low emission levels. They just won't have enough hydrogen infrastructure or secure battery-powered infrastructure, that's what the Minister said. I am glad that the Ministry, the MIT in cooperation with the MMR, will prepare this infrastructure. By the way, there is also the challenge of IROP, which offers municipalities the opportunity to buy vehicles that are low-emission, and the challenge is now announced through the Ministry of Local Development. So these are the measures that we can tell our colleagues in the municipalities from here in the Chamber of Deputies that they are ready for them. However, as Chairman of the Transport Sub-Committee, I must point out that the timetable is really tense, and if the municipalities and regions are to ensure this for urban transport, they will fight it. Let us count on the fact that we will receive comments from the territories, regions, and municipalities on how they are to do this, about how traffic is going to get expensive. And it may also be worth talking to the European Commission and, for example, asking for a transitional period to adjust this standard. Anyway, like I said, we should approve. By the way, in the Economic Committee, all of them were in favour of, both part of the coalition and part of the opposition, i.e. clearly supported. And as I said, unfortunately, there is a delay and there is already a penalty procedure against the Czech Republic, so the less obstruction, the faster we can handle the laws, and this is what I'm asking for. Good morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u9	Thank you. Next will be Mr Král, so far the last one in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I wouldn't want to be haunted by the fact that we won't be able to make some transposition deadlines and that we won't be able to build enough infrastructure to operate these low-emission vehicles. I think the current situation in energy shows us more of a different problem. Let's think about what low-emission vehicles they are. These are vehicles that use electricity or natural gas as, say, a substitute for fossil fuels based on oil. And as you all know, we are experiencing an unprecedented energy crisis here today, where both natural gas and electricity are at risk of being unavailable, and I do not understand how these days when the energy situation is diplomatically uncertain, as we can ask the municipalities to use precisely these fuels to drive vehicles. I just don't understand. I do not understand why, at a time when the municipal budgets will be and are burdened with various other costs, such as energy, how we can ask them to spend more. So that you don't think of me as some kind of slow development, and God forbid I'm the enemy of progress, so believe it or not, I may have been the one who put these technologies into practice 15, 20 years ago. I have been in the development of gasification of public transport and partly electrification, and I very much support these solutions, especially in this, say, shared part, that is, for example, in local public transport. As an average Member, I just don't have the power to buy an electric car and take advantage of the advantages and disadvantages of electromobility, because the individual solutions are just hugely expensive. However, the shared solution, for example, in urban public transport, is also useful in gas and electricity, but at this point we just don't know if we'll even have the energy available. And as an energy man, I dare say here that we can get into a situation very quickly where we won't be dealing with whether municipalities can buy enough cars, buses or trolleybuses for these alternative fuels, but we'll figure out where they'll actually take the energy. And I think a lot of mayors sitting here today are dealing with it today, and they're dealing with where they buy electricity and natural gas for their schools, objects. We're going to be dealing with this in a moment for the big industry or the households, so it seems really short-sighted at the moment. And as a huge fan of these technologies and related infrastructure, I simply want to say that we should have taken some more time and simply wait to implement this regulation, say, or this law. When I return to electricity, allow me briefly to repeat a few of the issues here, and these are you, and I think that the analysis of CEPS is true to me, that we, like the Czech Republic, if we continue to shut down coal power plants, will be in relatively short time, that is somewhere around 2025, deficit and deficit in electricity production will also be the surrounding states of the European Union. This means that we - I don't want to paint the devils on the wall here, for God's sake - but we can very quickly happen that those purchased trolleybuses, electric buses and I don't know what else, and the cars will just stand and we won't have electricity for them. And I support this also because it is a certain diversification compared to, for example, deliveries to the future of scarce oil. But this danger is here. We just have to admit with one breath, if we want to approve this standard, that without oil, natural gas and coal it in the energy sector, and now we can't do it in transport, and until we build here in this country a 5,000 MWh circle capacity in the core, that is, the capacity that is able to supply stable electricity to that network for the propulsion of these vehicles, or for the production of biomass or hydrogen, and I could talk about this issue for an infinitely long time, but I don't want to tire you out. So we just can't move any further before we build this stable energy production. And I would like to support this standard, because I am really one or I consider myself one of the pioneers of these technologies in the Czech Republic, but I would like to hear from the Prime Minister - but unfortunately, he is not here, so at least Minister Bartoš, that the Czech Republic will continue its coal mining and energy use by 2050, because if you look at the balance sheets, then just until then and until those timetables, we simply will not build that nuclear fleet until then. And putting everything on renewables as someone here is trying to explain is a huge risk. We are now putting this risk not only into energy, but also into transport, which I consider to be another huge risk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u11	The rapporteur, Mr Stržínek, has also taken part in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government, colleagues, as rapporteur, I propose to correct the legislative technical errors that we have already agreed on the guarantee committee. The error lies in a false reference to the law. The proposal for a correction reads: "In § 8 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (2) shall be replaced by Article 5.'; That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u13	Thank you, too. No one is now reporting to the debate, which is why I am ending the debate. Is there any interest in the applicant's final word? It's not. And if so, is the rapporteur interested in the final word? The rapporteur, Mr Lochman, may also take part in the committee. Neither do I. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to make an amendment and to give an opinion on it before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u14	In the absence of a motion to reject the bill at second reading and, at the same time, not even a motion to repeat the second reading, I propose, according to the resolution of the guarantee committee, the following procedure for voting. First, proposals for legislative technical adaptations submitted under Section 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, second, proposal A, House document 1212, and third, draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u15	Thank you. Since this is a rather simple procedure, I will not put to the vote on the procedure. I don't see anybody's interest, but I'm making sure - I think it's pretty easy. So we will now proceed to the vote as the rapporteur has put it. So I ask that he show us what we are voting on first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u16	So, first of all, we will vote on the proposal for a legislative technical correction, which I read a little while ago in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u17	Thank you. So I'm opening the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 69, 149 present, 148, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u18	In the next vote, we will vote on Amendment A, this is House document 1212. It is a correction of the error in the reference to the Act on Liability for Infractions. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-001-096.u19	The plaintiff's position? Please turn on the microphone. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I therefore initiate the vote on the proposal tabled. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 149 in attendance, for 147, against none. The proposal was also accepted. We should therefore now proceed to the vote on the whole bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services, according to House press 160, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' So I'm opening the vote. [[Who's in?]] Who's against it? Voting 71, 147 were signed in for 125, versus 15. The bill was passed. Then I conclude that the bill has been approved, and I conclude the discussion of this point. I thank the rapporteur, the rapporteur. Before I go to the opening of the next point, I'm gonna load up the apologies. Okamura Tomio apologizes from 9 to 10 hours for work reasons, Okamura Hayato apologizes from 10 to 17 hours for work reasons, and Minister Válek Vlastimil from the whole day for work reasons. I am now opening the discussion of paragraph 97. It's about
