ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u1	1. Law amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 215/ - returned by the President of the Republic The opinion of the President of the Republic, stating his opposition to this law, has been delivered to you as House Press 215/6. First, I ask the representatives of Mr Marek Benda's plaintiffs if he wants to comment on the President's position? He's interested. And I ask you, colleagues, once again to keep your conversations quiet, or to move them into the lobby. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u2	Madam President, gentlemen, Ministers, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna try to be as brief as possible, because I think we've discussed this thing enough, and the opinions of all of us are well-known. The President returned the amendment to the Civil Service Act with a justification to simplify it, that he did not agree with the functions of political representatives, as he did not agree with the coalition in 2014, and for which he also returned the amendment to the Civil Service Act, or the new Civil Service Act. I understand his position, yet I think that the House has the right to make a decision, and I recommend that it decide that the degree of professionalisation and depoliticisation of the state service really goes beyond the level of senior directors, and the Deputys are the persons who bring in the new minister and leave with his departure. I think everyone in this House will be surprised to see how many deputies we'll have in each department after 1. 1st next year, when it turns out that the number is much lower than for all previous governments that have ruled us here during the period of the Civil Service Act. [[14.20 hours]] The other reservations raised by the President are in line with what has been discussed here over the long term, which is the length of practice. I think that the experts who prepared the President's position did not listen to what we said in this Chamber of Deputies that there has been a change of state apparatus over the eight years on average, so it is therefore necessary to extend the term of practice, as well as internal competition in the offices, which is also criticised in the President's opinion. I think that the state service has more than enough depolitical and stabilization mechanisms, on the contrary, in the course of the debate that was going on here, I was rather criticized for releasing some stabilization mechanisms, such as swimming pools and others, rather than continuing to fulfill them. That is why I do not fully understand this opposition from the President of the Republic. I think it is right for the internal competition to exist there and that, in fact, every representative and state service in charge is subject once every five years to a review, to a selection procedure, whether the position is right, or whether others, newer, younger, have already grown up to replace it. After all, we are subjected to this test every four years, not every five years. That is why I recommend that we overvote the President's veto. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, want to comment on the President's position? Well, I think he's here. There you are, I was looking for you in the second part of the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u4	Hello. Madam President, Ministers, fellow Members, fellow Members, I, as rapporteur, would just like to sum up what has happened and then I will speak in the debate. But I can't hear myself, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u5	Yes. My colleagues, my colleague, I beg you once more to keep your voice down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u6	The bill amending Act 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies as Press 215, was delivered to the President 10. 11. 2022. The President did not sign the law and on 18. 11. 2022 law returned to the Chamber of Deputies. The President has summed up his reservations in a very brief and concise manner. Its fundamental reservation is: the function of the so-called political deputy is not in the organizational arrangement of the administrative order of the stage of proceedings, its tasks are defined in part vaguely and partly to a minimum and ultimately a well-paid transaction. It is a regulation which does not belong to any law, let alone the Civil Service Act. Furthermore, the President expressed his doubts as to how much this amendment is in line with the requirement of depolitising and professionalising the performance of the state administration, as - I will mention all the points that the President has said - it allows the number of so-called political Deputys to be increased and, on the other hand, the so-called Vice-Presidents of the Section to be transferred to the office of Senior Director of the Section. It reduces the length of experience requirements for persons applying for a post of service, for example, it is not clear what qualification will be given to a person applying for a post of head of service who has been active for four years under Section 5 of the Civil Service Act during a period of 15 years, and for the next eleven years it has been doing something completely different. Similarly, this applies to applicants for a post of Senior Director of the Section, Director of the Department or Head of the Department. It provides that persons are appointed for a period of five years to the post of Head of Service, the Head of Service or the Director of the Department, which the petitioners justify by increasing internal competition in the civil service and uniting the career process. If the exercise of a public service is considered inadmissible to associate with internal competition, it is clear that the adopted regulation will simplify the change in the occupation of the functions presented for the first time on the basis of a transitional provision in relation to the current occupation of the functions presented but does not ensure the certainty of career growth based on pre-determined objective criteria.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u7	I'm sorry to interrupt, but the noise level is really too high. So once again, colleagues, if you have any conversations you need to deal with, it's in the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u8	So much for me as rapporteur, but I am reporting to the debate as a Member with priority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u9	Yes, I have you here in the order of your enrollment. I am now opening the debate. I would remind you that amendments are not admissible. There are already a number of priority-rights entries for the debate. First President of Okamura, second Vice-President of Havlíček. The following are President Schillerová, Vice-President Dostálová, the rapporteur and other entries, i.e. Mrs Štefanová, who has so far signed up. Now, please, the first one registered with the priority right, President Okamura. Everybody else, I'm asking you to keep it down one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here an amendment to the so-called Service Act, where Fialův's five-calice government wants to make new political trades for hundreds of millions of crowns a year for representatives of its political parties. The SPD will vote again against the expensive political newsrooms and troughs for the government's five-calice politicians. Petr Fiala's five-calice government wants to introduce an unlimited number of political deputy ministers. I would add that the cost of such a deputy is around CZK 100 to 150,000 a month in terms of salary, there is a car with a driver, there is a secretariat and other similar service, so basically the Fialův government is now in a situation where people are not able to afford expensive energy and when the Pural government has failed completely and has not provided people with cheaper energy, so now they want to give themselves dozens, maybe hundreds of political seats, political newsstands, for their political exponents, for their political friends, for those who may not even be able to find employment in the labour market, so they will simply give them from public money a expensive political newsroom, which will be paid hard by all citizens of the Czech Republic. [[14.30 hours]] Of course, the SPD fundamentally disagrees with this, and as I said, we will vote against it. And we agree that the President of the Republic has also put a veto on this law. Until now, the number of political representatives at the ministries has been limited to two, the rest being so-called expert representatives. So the Purple Government, the Purple Government's five-coals in the composition of the ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates, promotes with this proposal another strong politicalization of the state administration, a reduction in its professional level, an increase in its corrupt potential and, in particular, another massive waste of taxpayers' money. As I was saying, the proposal, among other things, cancels the positions of the vice-president. Now it needs to be said what the context of this proposal is and why the government coalition of Petr Fiala is pushing it here in this way at the expense of the money needed for Czech citizens and companies, and why, at any cost, the Fialův government wants to suck on those government, just at any cost, and essentially tunnel public money at the expense of the Czech needy people. Well, the pressure just went up after the municipal election. Because, as we know, first and foremost, the Pirates and the STAN movement failed in municipal elections. Well, of course, especially with the pirát, the number of loose functions has fallen. In short, for citizens, the political parties of the government's five-calice have lost their paid positions in the state administration. So now, of course, there's pressure to suck on the money lines, because, for example, Pirates, according to my information, there's pressure on President Bartoš, because, of course, there are a number of disgruntled parties who have lost their jobs and do not want to work like any other citizen for a few tens of thousands. And they just want to have over 100,000 salaries, cars with drivers, secretariats, and they just want these public functions. Well, of course, those who have also experienced a fall in the municipal elections are the STAN movement, the decline in the number of representatives is over 30%. Of course, the TOP 09 has also fallen, and basically all sides of the government's five-calice have fallen in the number of representatives. That means, actually, now all you guys have invented, instead of your party going to look for jobs on the job market like any other citizen, you're creating new positions out of public money, lucrative positions, which, by the way, you're also going to be in quotes to bribe your fellow partyers and bribe them for that loyalty, that of leading those parties to continue voting for you in your parties. Which I think is really a very monstrous model. It's just a monstrous model. The fact that I really, and I want to point out, in this bill of yours, you're really promoting and declaring an unlimited number of political representatives here, that's what needs to be repeated again and again, because it's just absolutely unbelievable. That means the number of political deputy ministers can be ten, fifteen, twenty. Let's multiply that because the average salary of the deputy with the bonus because they still get the bonus, normally 100 to 150 grand a month, so let's multiply it by the contributions, so we have 200,000 a month, times 12 months, so we have 2.5 million. Two and a half million a year cargo per deputy. You have 17 ministers, which means when I'm just multiplying it, 2.5 million times 17 if everyone had one political deputy. Well, he's gonna need five, ten, maybe more. Well, that's really - plus the driver, plus the secretariat - so we're really moving around with this bill that Purple's five-calice government is pushing through here, so we're moving in hundreds of millions of crowns a year. The budget is in debt because of your government. You've got almost 400 billion, you've put it down this year. For next year, you are proposing a budget deficit of 295 billion. During your four-year reign in your budgetary perspective, it's CZK 1.2 trillion minus, which will have to be paid back by all citizens here, even their children will have to pay it back. And you're just sitting here in a situation where people don't even have the basic needs of life, and companies are crashing, so you're having a lucrative political bed here with public money for your fellow partyers. It's just a completely unacceptable proposal. That's a completely unacceptable proposal, and I don't know how to explain this to the five-police government. But with you, it's like playing the wall. Well, of course, she's in a worse situation. Because not only do you want to suck on the public money yourself, you want to suck on your fellow party, but you also want to punish the citizens, because what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs says here and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, what he says here in the media and the public, so, by the way, for the last time, KDU-ČSL President Marian Jurečka, he is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which means he speaks on behalf of the Government, he is the Minister of Government, speaking on behalf of the Government of Petr Fiala, so he says that the government is considering increasing the retirement age from 65 to 68 years. That means you want to take money from people, you want to raise the retirement age, or reduce the amount that will be paid to citizens. Logically, if a citizen doesn't leave when he's 65 years old, he's looking forward to it, he's worked out, and now he's going to go back to 68, so logically, it's a reduction in retirement in other words for the citizen. So you further, your government is proposing further restrictions on traffic discounts, and so is the incredible argument of President KDU-ČSL and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka, who in an interview for News said that he feels that his children do not need a discount on transport. Well, that is so incredible arrogance, because he, who has hundreds of thousands a month, and based on what I read in the media, his wife, to whom he transferred his agricultural business, still collects millions of subsidies from the European Union, so they who have millions so arrogantly say that because he doesn't need a discount on transport for his children, so it's actually supposed to cancel for everyone! It's unbelievable what's going on here - the arrogance that Petr Fiala's five-caliber government is doing! So, on the one hand, you want to give your political fellow party the hundreds of millions of crowns, but you also propose tax increases. You're talking about raising taxes for people working. This means, in order to make money for your political traders, you want to punish citizens across the board and increase taxes, reduce pensions, reduce fare discounts, limit support for building savings. You are simply going to introduce a double standard of health care, as we have also heard from Minister Válek, Minister of Health and Vice Prime Minister for TOP 09, that is, a double standard of health care, or worse care for the poor and better for the richer. This is also an unacceptable proposal for us. And of course, the absolute highlight was the appearance of President of the House and the TOP 09 of Pekarová Adamová in the Prima Parti the day before yesterday, when, after Mrs Pekarová Adamová, President of the House of the TOP 09, she broadcast a report on 82-year-old seniors who worked as an accountant all her life, and now she has 19,000 energy reserves and has a pension of 13,000, so Mrs Pekarová's answer to Adamová, the advice on the question of Mrs Tománková's moderator, was that an 82-year-old desperate senior should apply for benefits and a revision of advances! [[The speaker raises his voice.]] Eighty-two-year-old lady! This is incredible arrogance! I'm ashamed there's a House President like this. I just don't want anything to do with you, with an antisocial person who talks like that about people who've worked their whole lives! [[Applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] That's unprecedented, your arrogance, really. It also has legitimate feedback on social media when I saw it. Millions of people have played this video of you expressing yourself. After all, only on my social media is in hundreds of thousands when I saw it. So - and the comments, you should read them to start acting normal, Madam President. But that's your arrogance, that's your government. [[14.40 hours]] That means I'm going back to what I'm talking about here, so instead of sending an 82-year-old person to a dose! You still recommend on TV a desperate lady who is there in the winter in one room: go get your benefits. You send people who have worked their whole lives, a lady who's 82, who still said she was alone - watch out, alone - and worked her whole life, so you say go ask for benefits. That's disgusting, that's crazy! That's crazy, I've never seen such arrogance, such an oversight. You don't have a pinch of empathy. It's really awful who represents the Czech Republic here, who even represents the Chamber of Deputies here. You should be ashamed of yourself, Madam President, and you should apologize publicly for these outrageous statements you made against people who have worked their whole lives!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u11	You should address me through the President. I mean, it's interesting, it's weird, but it was. So follow the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u12	Well, that's a good one, your nipple. Because I think whoever listens to this... I thought you wanted to get out and that you wanted to set your words straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u13	Which you know I can't. So please proceed through and stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u14	Well, by your means, Madam President, you can apply with priority rights right now, and about five in a row, because there are four of us, if I sent it well. You can come forward and put your words in the right place. So I know you can. Not that you can't. So I don't know if you know the Rules of Procedure or what you're talking about, by your means. With priority right you can apply immediately and you will be the fifth in the order. I mean, I'm the first one, so it's three after me, so you'll be in line. So you can state that, it's up to you. So don't tell me you can't. I know it well, these things. So, in short. But you're not going to come forward, of course, to set it right, because I know you. So if you get off, you're just gonna attack the others again, and you're just gonna blame everyone for how bad the SPD is and how bad I am. That's what you always like to say. You told Prima the other day that the government isn't here for people and so on. These are your comments to get people to wear two sweaters. So, 82-year-old lady, that's your advice. That's what you forgot to say on Sunday - take two sweaters. This would be your advice to a desperate lady who doesn't even have the heat, the neighbor has to wear it. There are many such stories here in the Czech Republic. Well, you could have said that in there, through you, to take two sweaters. Terrible, terrible, terrible. Instead of figuring it out. This also means from this point of view, as we said today and at the press conference, we will start following the end of the service law and how you want those Ukrainian soldiers to practice here for a billion dollars in the Czech Republic, so a new meeting will start. We will propose an extraordinary point on energy solutions, because the situation is really unbearable in the Czech Republic. People are really starting to get special... or they already are. They already are, and now it's escalating, now they're starting to get the other expensive backups, the other people, and the situation is getting awful. No, she's been unbearable all year. But now it's starting to escalate even more, the situation is unsustainable. So we're going to propose an extraordinary point, by the way, about the energy. In case you don't approve of this special spot as an SPD, we're gonna try to collect signatures for an emergency meeting so we can just discuss this. Of course, it is fully appropriate that the next phase will be, that we will try to collect signatures again to call for mistrust to the government. Because such a government, which is unable to solve expensive energy and actually puts literally millions of citizens in unsolvable situations, such a government must resign. You just have to leave because it's clear that you're not able to help those citizens. I'm not enough to stare at what the Minister of Industry and Prime Minister Síkela Fiala doing here. They've been saying for six months, three quarters of a year that they're waiting for some kind of EU solution. The Union's solution doesn't come or come, of course, and we're just wasting our time. And you keep throwing millions of people into energy poverty, into financial poverty. On the other hand, you're giving yourselves a hundred-million-dollar political trade here. That's not normal. That is why I wanted to say that the SPD will oppose the fact that you want to establish an unlimited number of political representatives. We simply disagree because it is necessary to give this money to decent people and simply help Czech citizens and Czech companies that are in huge trouble. Those political exponents of yours that you want to pin on these political newsrooms, they can, like any citizen, look for jobs on the job market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u15	I am now logged in with a factual remark, so I will ask for a change in the management of the Vice-President's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u16	Good afternoon. Madam Speaker, please, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for the floor. Well, we've had the classic theatrical performance here. It's a classic at every meeting. However, through the President, Mr Okamura, I will limit myself to facts, which is a common problem for you. So, facts about the report. You know, I turned to Prima, because I wanted to see how we could help the very old lady. What did Prima tell me through my co-worker? That this lady, thanks to the help of a nonprofit organization, is already dealing with the situation. First of all, the backups are already down because it's a price cap that our government has put in place. A benefit in material aid, which is right here for these people, even if you're trying to downplay this place in any way, to challenge that it's outrageous that people are asking for social benefits. Imagine that they've always been here, and they probably always will be, who just need the help of the social system. That's what this social system is for, and it's precisely because of it that this lady has already paid her due. This lady, thanks to him, may have more help from the state. That's what's going on with her. So let's just say the facts here. You know, I was really interested in her story, and I didn't want to just use it here in that political canonade like you do. I found that, unfortunately, TV only gave half of the story and not the whole, which we can already picture ourselves about. But as far as yours is concerned, all I ever do is spit out some shit, and I don't know what you're saying, that's about you, not me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u18	Another in order to make a point of fact is Mr Jakob. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we just saw the way my two previous speakers behave. The only one who is arrogant is not President Pekarová Adamová, but you, through the President, are you, Mr President of the SPD Tomio Okamuro. You're being arrogant here. And not just that. You're not even a gentleman. I'm really sorry, but you're acting like an asshole here. Now to the essence of the problem. What kind of atmosphere are you creating in society? The situation is difficult, it's heavy, of course we all know it. But I beg all citizens who get in a difficult situation, let them not be shy, let them not be afraid, let them ask for help, let them go to the city authorities, to the social unions. Everyone will be happy to help them and help them find the right way to get out of this difficult situation. It's no shame. We are in a difficult situation, please do not hesitate to contact the state, the city authorities. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u20	The President of Okamura is now registered with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u21	So, from the performance by President of the House of Mrs Pekarová Adamová, we learned that there is one case where one person has problems with expensive energy. That's why Mrs Pekarová said she went to ask for the show individually. I mean, you've completely convicted yourself. These people are hundreds of thousands, millions. So the work of your government is that you always go through one person? Where's the system? Where's the system help? After all, you yourself have convicted yourself of total incompetence, and that you do not know which beats and what is the state of society. So the Speaker of the House can solve an individual case. Please, there are millions of people here with problems, you don't know? There are thousands of companies that have problems. [[14.50 hours]] A nonprofit organization. Well, if a non-profit organization is helping, then your government is no longer needed! Because apparently the government isn't able to help, so there are others. Put it down! Next thing. You have no idea that the Czech Republic has the highest increase in energy prices in Europe due to your government - 60 percent! You don't know? You're the worst. Even the Polák in this year-on-year comparison, the Maďar have a drop in energy prices. The division of the company? How your government divided the company this year is unprecedented and it is the largest division of the company ever during the independent Czech Republic! And the main, the main culprit of this division is you, President Pekarová Adamová, your outrageous statements, through you. And as for the arrogance, yes, that I'm defending desperate citizens here, that I'm defending hundreds of thousands of citizens who are in a desperate financial and social situation, and you're calling arrogance the fact that I'm defending them here, that just illustrates your behavior and your attitude.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u22	So I'm gonna ask you again to take a turn in the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u23	Good afternoon. President Pekarová came forward with a point of fact. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. You can see it. It's unbelievable what you're doing here. Through the President, Mr Okamura, please, the systemic solution is that the social system is ready to help people who need it. Of course, it's not just for one of the reporters, but you yourself mentioned it as an example of how this government does it wrong and so on. We all know your song and your roundabout, which you repeat here every week at every meeting, we know your speech very well, sometimes you do a little bit of a new one, but it's like the same thing through the copier, you keep saying the same thing incredibly. So I responded to this particular example, which is one for all. I think it's also unfair, and I say this in the direction of such reports in general, that only the catastrophic part is mentioned right now, but that the state has helped, no one will ever know about it. That's what I'm trying to do here from this place, when I can fix it, so that everyone doesn't fall under what you and your colleagues have been trying so systematically for a long time - that is, fear. The fear that you're sowing here so that everyone's falling apart from the idea that they're looking at an invoice like that, even though it didn't happen at all, so that they'd be worried about going for help at all. That's what you're doing here. I think that if we were really interested in all citizens, and not just some of us, you wouldn't be doing these kind of shows here, because you'd be asking people not to be afraid to turn to the state when they need it. But it's always been you talking about inadaptables, sustenance, decent people and stuff like that. That's your dictionary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u25	Another point of fact is made by President Tomio Okamura. Mr. Chairman, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u26	Yes, so now the performance by President Pekarová Adamová was again a pearl, because President Pekarová Adamová, one of the highest people in Petr Fiala's government, I would point out once again, the government's TOP-09, confirmed that the government's solution to expensive energy is to send people to social welfare! Well, that's the top of the line, that's what you just said. So your solution is to send people who work their whole lives, or even have their work done, to social welfare! Put it down! Pass the resignation! I can't believe what you're saying here. Yes, Prime Minister Petr Fiala bragged about it the other day on TV, and I immediately criticized it. He bragged about his speech, if you remember, by increasing the number of people receiving welfare benefits. You're crazy. You brag about rising people who receive welfare benefits. You should be bragging, every government, by reducing the number of people at doses, by not being decent and working people at social benefits. You guys are so Mars, you don't know which one's beating. What are you guys bragging about? Like, if it's your solution to send people to social services, seniors who have their work done, go away! After all, the solution must be to keep people out of dosage. As far as fear is concerned. The fact that you're saying that people, when they're worried about their livelihoods, like you arrogantly said about those protesters who are demonstrating over there, I'm not talking about organizers, I'm talking about protestors, people who are afraid that they don't have backups... You created the atmosphere of fear. They're worried about your inactivity because you're incompetent. They're worried about everyday living that they just don't have money, Mrs. Pekarová Adamová, through you. They don't have those hundreds of thousands a month and a seven-line beamer paid by the state like you. They just don't have money, they're desperate. And you're saying someone's creating fear. That's totally unbelievable. You don't care about the citizens. You said your government wasn't here for the people, that's your quote on Prima TV, we all saw it. You don't care about the citizens, and it's a terrible shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u27	Mr Michal Kučera is now registered with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u28	Hello. Thanks for the word. Mr Okamura, through Madam President, I have already convinced myself that you do not understand the written text, but you do not understand the spoken word. It's very difficult to talk to you. You're such a scared businessman. A fear dealer who based his political business on it. I mean, it's probably worth it. That last MP of yours, he went bankrupt, I think his name was Dawn of Direct Democracy, he was sitting there, just like we are. So he went bankrupt, and you got kicked out of there. But I want to say another thing. Consider that the one thing you are denying here is that everyone in this state will be helped. And he doesn't need to be clinging to extremists like Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u29	So now we're going back to the next logged in. Vice-President Havlíček is registered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, gentlemen and Madam Secretary. Don't be shy, I've heard, don't hesitate, don't be afraid to ask for social support. All we had to do was give you an example. So let's go back to the Civil Service Act and recap your vows, honourable members of the five-calice. Do you remember before the elections, but even before you began to rule, when you won the elections, you promised the so-called professionalization of the state sphere, as you promised to slimn the state sphere? What did you start with? You started by symbolically but not only symbolically adding three ministerial positions. But not just ministerial positions. You have added a number of political representatives to this, almost thirty in the end. You have created new authorities, useless authorities, for research, development and innovation, which previously carried out its activities in a completely different way from what you have designed today. So is the European Union. We have the Minister of Foreign Affairs, we have the Prime Minister, but we have the Minister of European Affairs today, we have the Minister of Legislation. We didn't get any of that. I know you're going to say that it's tens of millions of crowns, it's symbolism, nothing more, nothing less, at a time when you're going to save money and when you're telling us all, and that's why I started it by saying that we shouldn't be shy, not us, but those who have problems going to work offices. If I had to bring it up to myself, three ministers are doing my job today, and they've taken six new political deputys. I didn't have either. Yes, you can say that I'm a freak, that it's not normal, that I've held multiple offices, and to a large extent you may be right. But it's also not normal for a minister to do nine other jobs today. Let's figure out how much money and resources it makes in the horizon of, say, one year or the time you're here, because I have no doubt that it has to be reduced again after that. At the same time, under the ideological concept of deagrofertization, you started systematically replacing people in state organisations, but not only in state organisations, but also in individual ministries. I would, and you have every right to, if you came and said, "I have a better man here, I'm going to take him for a man who is proven to be worse." No, you started replacing people who were only technically connected to those who were there before you and who were from the YES movement without looking at who was better and who was worse. And I could show you units, if not dozens of cases of people who are competently out of control just to replace people who have been there for ten, fifteen years, who have been guilty not by being associated with Agrofert, but by being our deputy, or by being named there by us. You didn't plant better people there in the vast majority, and a handful of those who are worth something, so let's honor you. [[15.00 hours]] You're giving it a crown by the Civil Service Act. But before that, I'm going to mention your criticism, which I'm sure you remember, about the number of civil servants. Do you remember laughing at us and saying you're increasing the number of civil servants? And we have argued to you that the number of officials is falling, but that the number of teaching workers is increasing because there are more children, that the number of police officers is increasing, because we need to strengthen security, that the number of soldiers is increasing, among other things, because of their enormous deployment in the time of the covid crisis and that the number of firefighters is increasing for the same reasons. You ignored this, you mocked us. What's your result after one year? You have 8,000 extra civil servants. And if we tell you, what's your argument? But they're not officials, they're people like policemen like soldiers, like teaching workers and the like. You're caught in your own trap. You haven't done anything about it, but I don't blame you, because I understand that the number of educators has to grow logically with the number of children and not to mention soldiers or firemen and police officers. A law that you will undoubtedly push yourself through today despite opposition, despite Mr President, despite all those who are buying, and despite all those who might want to see at least some symbolism from you, it will come into the word and into the letter of the tsunami of modern-day politicians. Yes, all your friends, your friends, your lovers, your lovers, your lovers, your mistresses, your mistresses, and vice versa, all will have the perfect opportunity to take up positions, your dream positions as prime ministers. You don't want us to call it political deputy, but what else is it? He's a political deputy who can come there without any system selection procedure, without any qualifications, purely because you want to control the ministry politically. No offense, I understand that if someone wins an election, they want to control something politically. But at the same time, the fact that you're sending the vice principals to the positions of the so-called chief executives is going to be in charge of the political vice presidents, so I consider this to be the top of the bad taste, because the exact ones that are the ones on which the departments lie. Forget that he's lying on ministers, the minister can't do his job absolutely in terms of expertise. There's no way he could've done it without the deputy professors. These are people who have often been there for many years. They're experts, they're people familiar with detail, they're people who had to survive all of us, you, us who survived five, six, seven, maybe ten different ministers, and who, despite all the political upheavals, have managed to manage those ministries well or reasonably well. You say to all of you today: there will be politicians above you, you will go to the position of chief executives. And leaving them the same money isn't what you're playing for. It's not all about the money. And believe it or not, those people in those position as deputy professors aren't all there because they've got some dizzying money. Remember that these are people who are responsible very often for billions, sometimes tens of billions of crowns, and even sometimes over 100 billion crowns. They're at great risk. They're there because they like the job, because they're hearts, because they're experts. And of course they care about their social appreciation, their status. And you're gonna send them under the politicians in a defensive way today. That's what I consider to be the worst. The problem is not what you are trying to tell us that all these changes will cost just hundreds of millions of crowns. So be it, he spends himself on other things, even though it is undoubtedly a shame. The problem is that symbolically, at a time when you say it should be saved, at a time when you say that everyone has to adapt to an absolutely extraordinary time, at a time when you send people to the social authorities, to the authorities of work, and you call them not to be afraid, so at the same time you enjoy it. And that's what bothers me most about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Have a good afternoon. We will continue to discuss this amendment. President Alena Schillerová is currently registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. The translator isn't here. I wanted to say hello. Dear colleagues, after a relatively short time, we have a second law returned by the President of the Republic. We used to be more accustomed to dealing with the laws - rather the laws - returned by the Senate, which was the second opposition to our government. Today, however, such a return is absolutely minimal, despite the fact that many laws literally call for adjustment. Perhaps no one thinks that this is the reason that the quality of the proposed laws would increase so substantially. There's a simpler explanation. This is simply because the majority is now the same in both chambers of Parliament. And now the Senate logically defends its parties' policies, defends government policy. I respect that, that was the will of the voters, but we also see live that it may not be completely healthy. That is why I am glad that, at this point in this case, the other insurance element that gives us the constitution has worked, and that is the President of the Republic, who, in his veto, has pointed out that the amendment to the Civil Service Act is nothing more than the creation of new tobacco shops, smugglers and hot spots for his acquaintances. But first things first. When you guys were jamming the e-booking bill last Friday, I was talking about you returning us back to the '90s. At that time, the gray economy was experiencing golden times, and you only returned this time with your only and only political decisions. You voluntarily cost the state budget an annual income of 13 billion. Yes, I repeat, but you have to get used to it, you'll hear this from me every chance you get when you say you're short enough funding for Czech households or companies. And it's not just the opinion of us, the YES movement, as you may be trying to fool yourself. I have read the comments of political scientists, the reactions of economists, and not only the Czechs, but also foreigners are shaking their minds about it. The Czech Republic simply took a step backwards. And I'm pretty sure sooner or later we're going back to some electronic system, even if not EET, we're going back. On Friday, I said you were returning us back to the '90s probably because you were doing your best. And you know what the next symbol of the '90s was? It was a newsstand. It was the distribution of smugglers to friends and people related to this or that traditional political party, political deputymen who only get to their posts because they have the right color of a party book, and after the election they always clean out their drawers, pack up their agenda and go back to waiting. Continuity minimal. That's what bothered people so much. That was why people lost their confidence in politics, and, yes, I'm not afraid to admit it, it was also one of the reasons that caused your party's long-time voters to start looking for new policies to change the circumstances. Now, on live air, they see that it wasn't a time, that it was human. The thinking is back with everything now. On the one hand, I understand this, I know that politics is particularly the art of compromise and agreement, and I also see that five hungry necks are a lot and it is hard to feed them. That doesn't excuse you. I remember you guys talking about slimming the state before the election, that was your kind of mantra. But from the first moment you opened the door of the strakovka, you've been denying yourself. The record number of ministers, the enormous number of political representatives, the creation of a digital agency, where, if it is finally approved, we will certainly soon see the import of pirate waiters, and now the amendment to the Service Act. [[15.10 hours]] Yesterday it was a year since the appointment of Petr Fiala as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, so it may also be appropriate to provide a brief summary of what is more fundamental about the Russian aggression in Ukraine and the energy crisis. The first priority was to collect 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies. You managed to do that despite our great resistance. And, world, wonder, less than a year later, we're starting to discuss the introduction of overstandards and we're talking about increasing the fees for visiting the emergency room. Another thing - you have postponed the effectiveness of the construction law, which would speed up construction, and Minister Bartoš has submitted his own proposal with which none of the major trade organizations disagree. You've canceled the above-mentioned EET. And today, you're finally gonna pass the government's trade law. On Friday, my colleague Munzar reminded me of an increase in the VAT limit for compulsory VAT to 2 million. Yes, I commend that. That's what our government has prepared. I have still managed to negotiate an exemption on EU soil. I'm glad the government moved it here. But back to the amendment to the Civil Service Act. The law is wrong in every way. It's just that he's making today's professional deputy section director, devalues their position. I consider this to be a mistake to abolish the limitations of two political representatives. That's the undiscovered intention of creating the smugglers I was talking about. Of course, it doesn't mean money for the small salary, but there are a number of other expenses involved. [[♪ Just ♪]] The political deputy is entitled to the apparatus, the car, the driver. And there'll be five or seven of them in one ministry, but there'll be more. We'll know soon enough. Systemization must now be approved by the government in order to be effective from 1 January 2023. And don't worry, we'll introduce her to you for the government in our shadow government. And that, of course, will also be reflected in the state's spending. Although these are not multibillion-dollar sums that will break the government's management for better or worse, it is a symbol. A symbol of the government coalition embezzling with her promises. The planned savings are not being made, and, on the contrary, according to my information, extensive systems are already being prepared, which I was just talking about. Believe me, we'll keep a close eye on everything, draw attention to it, and contrast it with your recent promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. It is now registered with the priority right of Vice-President Dostálová. Please, you have the floor. And before I give it to you, I'll read an apology. Jaroslav Bašta apologizes from 15.30 for work reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, what we're going to say to each other, we've said a lot about the law here, and the President's veto really doesn't surprise us. Perhaps it would be worth recalling the entire run with this law, because the coalition had prepared a change to the service law that would guarantee the depoliticisation of the state administration. However, the important proposal from which the government majority promised better functioning of the state did not come through the standard way, and this needs to be recalled. It was submitted by five of the heads of the MPs, arguing that this process was faster. The original review procedure for the proposal was cancelled and was approved directly by the Government. The law, which is a fundamental condition for drawing European funds, has not been discussed with the European Commission and has not been allowed to take an inter-residual commentary procedure. Although the memoir procedure was announced, it was to take place from 16 to 27 May this year, but in the end the Ministry could not deliver any opponent of the MP's amendment to the important law. Minister for Legislation, Mr. Michal Šalomoun removed the proposal from the commentary proceedings and recorded it again without him. Moreover, the material was included directly at the government's meeting. I would just like to remind the Government's programming statement, which states that the Cabinet undertakes to present the laws in the usual way, i.e. legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration will be presented in a standard legislative way, and before they are submitted to the Government, experts within the Government's Legislative Council will comment on them - it stands in this government's programming statement, that is, a document signed by all the government parties. According to the reference report, the main result of the amendment is to simplify and accelerate the process of entry into the civil service, establish a term of office for senior staff or extend the circle of people who may apply for these posts. Other objectives include abolishing the limit for the number of political representatives or allowing civil servants to work from home. Probably the main goal was to get your friends into office as quickly as possible. For this reason, the government coalition is actually coming, or, in fact, five committee chairmen are coming up with the idea of making the current senior director of the section. Since they are likely to be aware that not every political deputy must be a qualified expert, they have put in the law a sentence that the relevant member of the government may determine that the head of the section is entitled to take part in the seat of a member of the government's meeting. This was pointed out by the Legislative Council of the Government from the position of President that this could be an unconstitutional step. But that's okay. We need it fast, yesterday was too late. Renaming should also take place in the case of the Deputy Minister of the Interior for Civil Service, who is to be the Supreme Secretary of State. However, criticism in the past did not fall under the name of the position as rather a concern about the politicality of the so-called superofficial who formally provides the civil service. The Supreme Secretary of State falls under the Ministry of the Interior and is appointed by the Government. While the Deputy Minister of the Interior could have been appointed only for 6 years, according to the amendment he could repeat his mandate. At the same time, the Supreme Secretary's requirements for his expertise are reduced. Because, to put it into context, it is actually newly introduced that you have demonstrated expertise over the past 15 years. This means that when they board their positions in 2023, it's been since 2008 and it's enough to be interrupted. That means, when you imagine the position of the Supreme Secretary of State, that really means a person who should have great managerial skills, so he doesn't have to document them, for example, in the past four years, eight years, six years, but in the last 15 years and interrupted. This means that if he manages something in 2008, then he won't do anything in this management position, then something will run in 2012, then he will fall out of these management positions again, of course, then he will do something in 2017, for example in 2019. And that's how he gets those years of practice. That means that really, the professional and the qualifications, the increase in qualifications here, there can be really legitimate doubts. At the same time, the reconstruction of the State pointed out that the impossibility of being reappointed was the only insurance policy against subjecting the Supreme Secretary of State to inappropriate political pressures. They could also repeat their five-year mandate according to the proposal. Then, of course, the deputy professors and union directors will always be appointed for five years. And here's the rock of injury again. And that's why I really think that the amendment deserved bigger debates, maybe even bigger debates with the opposition, where it is in opposition that there are people who just have a really high executive experience from past years, because the problem is that you actually compete half the house, half the resort, half the office every five years. But what happens to these people? You overcompete them, but they won't leave because they're indeterminate. That means they end up in so-called space, officially called a pool, we've already talked about it, and there's another six months in that pool. [[15.20 hours]] So you're going to appoint a new head of the department or head of the section. Whoever's been there so far stays in that pool for six months at 80 percent of the salary. And because they are elderly officials, because we have always respected the opinion of the European Commission, which gave us a big knife to the neck to draw European funds, these people have been there since mostly 2014, 2015, 2016. This means that they have more than three years of practice, six years of practice, and now take it that if a person is there for more than three years, then he is entitled to three salaries, six years of six salaries, nine years of nine salaries, over nine years of twelve salaries. So we take this step that we really just need to create a floor for our friends and so on and so forth, so we're really going to charge a record state budget, because we have to deal with the people who are in that pool. And here, of course, at this time in the energy crisis, we count every crown, we lack money for the state budget, so it is legitimate to ask: Why? Not to mention they're people without an expert agenda. Political deputys are people who will just have the car with the driver, the assistant and will probably have access to the minister. But the political deputy is not in the hierarchy of management of the service office. This is only the head of the section, the head of the department and the head of the department. So what are these people gonna do there? Will they advise professionally? Yes, but what do we have a counselor for? I mean, we can all have advisors at the resorts. Why do we make them political deputy? In the current law, there could be two political deputys at the most. We as opposition tried to understand, of course, the motives of the current government coalition and we suggested, well, if you have political deputy, you have to represent a member of the government, so where can such a political deputy represent a member of the government? It can thus represent him in the Government, in the Chamber of Deputies, in Parliament and before the European Commission. That means four tops. Why the unlimited number? What is this? What are we supposed to imagine under this? Even the opposition was so helpful that it went so far as to say well, about four, given that it is a five-calice, so it will probably be little, so we went by the amendment to make the political deputy always above some specific section. This means that if the resort had five sections, five political representatives, seven sections, a maximum of seven political representatives. That didn't even work. It is simply still insisting that an unlimited number of political representatives be held. That means there can be eight, 10, 12, 16, it doesn't matter, I can just have an unlimited number of deputys. But every deputy has their bonuses, and these bonuses have come into the bill. And what are the bonuses? Bonuses are a car with a driver, then a car for personal use, an assistant, those are all the things that the political deputy will be entitled to. But at the same time, without any responsibility to control that office. Just any subordinate of his will be no one. He'll only have his fellow minister, but he won't have any officials to run the agenda with. These officials will only be provided by the head of the section, the head of the department, the head of the department, who are in the hierarchy under the service office, or under the civil service. Another target of criticism, which, of course, has come to light, is selection procedures. Very rightly, the fact that he's actually... I guess I'll start another way. The European Commission, when it actually gave us the criteria on which it would actually allow the drawing of European funds into the Czech Republic under the so-called Service Act, was three. The first is professionalism. We've already talked about this here, that basically without college, we're gonna have political deputies there, we're gonna call off the director every five years, so I guess we can't talk about professionalism here. The second thing is stabilization. Well, that's what I said for the first time, so stabilization, if you switch half of the office every five years, obviously it can't be discussed either. And the last one is depoliticization. Well, depoliticization, if we have an unlimited number of political deputies who basically run non-existent agendas because they don't obviously have a powerful apparatus, let's just have some fun here, and let's face it, we're gonna politicize the state administration. And the selection procedures we're talking about here. We were just going to do the stabilization in that the selection procedures would be two-way, so that in the first round, those people would actually be able to apply to the pool or to any other career process within the individual authorities in the first round. But we agreed with the objection that we needed to open the resorts and the outsiders. That's why we turned three rounds into two laps so those outsiders would have easier access to the government. But the current proposal only has a one-wheeled tender. That means career officials zero, as if they didn't exist. We've given them terrible money for education and so on, and they'll replace them, and now forgive me for saying that word, street people. Well, that's not about stabilizing and professionalizing, that's for sure. The last amendment, of course, also allows, in fact, the current proposal for the amendment to loosen up the practice that I have already discussed here. I think that it really needs to be remembered, so that those people who may be looking at us know that entry into the state administration will never be easier. If, of course, he gets to them because of the number of friends and acquaintances in the tender, just so you know what you have to meet. So the Supreme Secretary of State must be over 40 years of age, and five years of experience in the field are sufficient, and you must have experience as a manager for at least 4 years over the past 15 years. It doesn't have to be in one piece, it just has to add up every year to four years. The State Secretary is appointed for 5 years, professional experience is only 4 years and only 3 years as head. The Head of the Service Office for 5 years shall be the same as the Secretary of State and shall add that up again. The senior director of the section is appointed for 5 years, but professional practice is only enough for 3 years and 2 years as a supervisor, and again, please, from 2008 onwards, it does not have to be in one piece. The director of the department is appointed for 5 years, but professional experience is only two years away, and only one year will suffice if you are, for example, McDonald's manager. So I think that the real professionalization of the state administration is being pushed in the best direction. And I really have to ask myself why there is a proposal here that is actually conditional on the drawdown of European funds, and that therefore we do not have a few in front of us, because the government of Andrej Babiš negotiated CZK 960 billion. And now we're really playing with what the European Commission has to say. Because no one has negotiated this proposal with the European Commission. I'm really worried that the way this novel is prepared, that we should still take our mind off things, that we should go back to the beginning, act. It doesn't have to be long after that, the approval. But let's talk about the real problems that the Civil Service Act brings. And I say again, we know there are problems, but none of these things have actually been written into this novel. Let's have some fun, think about how these people are actually progressing in their careers, if they're in the pool, whether it's really a waste of resources. Whether or not there's a way to make this more effective, of course. Let's also talk about the fact that if, of course, there's going to be a re-compete every five years, and here it can be viewed from different angles, that maybe it can be that these people are constantly educated and so on under the civil service. But why do we always have to have a tender condition? Why can't we do it like with school directors that if, of course, a person is satisfied, like now I mean from the position of minister, with the work of such an official, there's a vending machine. Just when I have no reservations, I have no reason to compete with him. After all, these are terrible costs, and once again, all of this is true of the state budget. I've prepared a recap so you can actually have an idea of what's changing. Because, of course, there's always one sentence in the media, and I had to laugh all the time today when I listened to the press conference saying that there was a declaration that the number of Deputys would be reduced! Come on, he's gonna go down, 'cause we're gonna make deputy chief executives of the section, but we're gonna make up for political deputys. So instead of saving these levels on the hierarchy, we're adding them because we're going to have another level, or political deputies with no responsibility, with all the prebends we can imagine. [[15.30 hours]] So just for the recap. The so-called deputy professor is canceled, so they will only be the head directors of the section. The head of the section will be able to represent a member of the government. That there's a possible conflict with the Constitution, no one's gonna figure it out. Deputy member of the government - the number is not newly determined, it can be unlimited. There are only two in the current law, so the new one will be unlimited, but of course with all possible bonuses such as cars, drivers, the costs of the secretariat and so on. It will be necessary to demonstrate citizenship and knowledge of languages immediately upon submission of the application, before it could be added later. Newly, CVs will have to be documented with data on practice, professional knowledge and skills. Spare date of interview for excused applicants only with the consent of the Service Authority. Earlier, all proper apologies had to be given a substitute term. Newly stipulated that the department heads will be appointed for an indefinite period and will not compete, on the other hand, the Supreme Secretary of State, the Secretary-General, the Head of Department, will be re-competitive every 5 years. That means there's no chance of the minister or the administration, any office, so that if he's satisfied, he automatically extends it and doesn't burden the administration with the apparatus. Again, I would like to point out that all these people who fail in competitions will have to give priority to other interests and other acquaintances, so they will end up in the so-called pool at 80 percent of the salary for six months, and then they will have a really big payout. I repeat: Three years of ministry or office work - three salaries. Six years six salaries. Nine years nine salaries. Twelve salaries over nine years. So I think this gown is really going to pay off. At the same time, a newly modified service leave for individual purposes - five days. Officials just ask for it and they don't have to prove what they need it for at all. So, of course, we need to not know what's going on with our officials. At the same time, there are transitional provisions. Transitional provisions are that, on the date of application of the Act, senior directors of the section and department heads will be considered to be appointed for a fixed period. If the period from the appointment has already expired 5 years, then they must compete. And here I am glad that even in cooperation with the coalition MPs we at least extended it to 24 months, because originally there were 12 and 18 by step, and I really think that at one point it would be a huge burden for the resort to compete almost the whole house. The open selection procedures for the Superiors will be terminated and announced again under new conditions. This is also a transitional provision. And the open selection procedures for rank positions will be completed according to the original adjustment. So we're gonna have rank, they're gonna be OK, but everyone who has some management leadership, they're gonna be overcompetitored. Whoever you have experience with the office, when you get in there, mayor, deputy mayor, minister, it doesn't matter, so you value those who have some historical experience, who can tell you, the clerk, how it went down here in the years of those and those. Now, we're gonna get rid of these people, they're gonna have a whole new face, but I'm wondering who's gonna pass on that historical memory, and now forgive me for the expression, from generation to generation, but, of course, it's meant by the electoral system, that means four years to four years, and so on. We are very well aware of the need to really change the law of service, but I think we do, and the question, as the President of the club has said very rightly here, that actually the insurance policy in that we are doing something wrong, unfortunately it did not stop in the Senate and put it up to the President, so the question is, should we not really use it, we should not take our senses, go back to the negotiating table and try to really change that law of service in all those parameters where it deserves it. If we approve, as it is today, as we have it on the table, as you're about to overrule the veto, it's really just a quick way to get your friends to the resorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, the rapporteur, Ms Ožanová, will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, at the outset - I agree with all the reservations made by the President. The use of the veto was entirely justified and the law should not be approved in this form. Unlike my colleagues who spoke before me, I will deal with a little different questions and divide my speech into four chapters. As is customary for me, a little bit more brief. First, speed, second, Senate, third, fourth, impact. To one, to speed. The course itself was quite unusual. It was excellently fast for this House outside the legislative emergency. Please, the proposal was sent to the government for comment 16. 5. The government had its position two days later 18. 5th and already 1st and 2nd June of this year were held in plenary and 30th. 9. the third reading was completed. The government was able to give its opinion in two days, and within 15 days it was the first reading. I'm sorry, in this House, unless there's a legislative emergency, I don't know this situation, so instead of a legislative emergency, it was probably a newsroom emergency. So much for speed. Interesting is point two - Senate. In the Senate on the bill, two committees recommended that the Senate return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies with amendments. Two Senate committees said it would come back. It was a Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment and a Constitutional and Legal Committee. The amendments concerned clarification in the related legislation - in the law on courts and judges, in the administrative order of law, in the law on conflicts of interest and in the law on the processing of personal data. The changes concerned replacing the original terminology of functions with new terminology, which clearly determined and specified the powers of the relevant persons. These amendments had the character of correcting the omissions of the Chamber of Deputies, yet they were not adopted by the Senate. This raises the question of whether the Senate is in office. What good is it if there are obvious errors and yet the law does not return the Senate? I believe that the control mechanism has failed completely. Point three, age. I was also talking about it at the third reading, so let me remind you a little bit. I have to comment on the idea of increasing the retirement age. Are you asking if this is related to this press? It's related. The Civil Service Act provides for termination of service cases. These include reaching the age limit of 70 years, when the service ends automatically by law. If this government wants to increase the retirement age, as Minister Jurečka considers, at least according to information from the media, why doesn't the coalition want to allow active people to work longer? I merely point out that this limit is not only in this law, but it also applies to the judiciary, for example. How do I put this? There are people who need to retire early for health or other reasons, but there are also some people who are at the top of their work just at an older age, and it is a shame not to use their knowledge and experience. On the one hand, you want to increase your retirement age, on the other hand, you won't let people work. Just to the brink: The amendment to the displacement of the said age limit was introduced into the system under the number 1036 by Jana Mračková Vildumetzová and read in the second reading by Renata Oulehlová. You could have voted for him. Now perhaps a more interesting point - point four. In general, it is aware that this amendment concerns only ministries, which is a big mistake. I have already pointed out in plenary that, according to the annual Civil Service Report 2021, 234 authorities are affected, so they will re-compete leading functions, for example, by the cadastral authorities, survey authorities, mining authorities, Czech Environmental Inspections, National Archives and the Punco Office. If anybody's interested in a list of all the authorities, I'm available for inspection. Colleagues, you can come to me. [[15.40 hours]] I am surprised to hear that some commentators narrow the impact of this law only on the ministries. I have some advice for them. You don't have to listen to what the opposition says so you don't have to agree with God. Try asking Uncle Googl and see how many offices there are. I am a member of the Economic Committee and, when discussing the chapters of the budget, I thought to ask about the implications of the amendment to this law. I think I'm getting to the most interesting part of my speech. I was intrigued by answers from two authorities, the State Office for Nuclear Safety and the Czech Telecommunications Office. The President of the State Nuclear Safety Office, Mrs Dana Drábová, replied that the amendment will very much touch the Office. There is a risk that a number of executives will not need this and will not apply for the selection procedure. Hana Továrková added that the situation is similar, and some executives have already announced that they are not prepared to change their contracts for an indefinite period from a period of only five years, while the Authority has long faced personnel problems. Please, you can, of course, find this information in the minutes of the Economic Committee. Does any of you really want to convince me that the Nuclear Safety Authority is a political office? I've always thought that the main thing in this office is expertise, but maybe I'm wrong. And then, just like with the Digitalization Agency, there won't be any need for a college education to sign up for the real experts. Just to conclude. Dear colleagues, are you really okay with possibly destabilizing other - apparently apolitical - authorities?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, rapporteur. We have exhausted all the priority rights, and we will now proceed to speak properly for the debate. Madame Iveta Štefanová, please. You have your word. And Mr. Richard Brabec will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment here on the Civil Service Act. The ruling coalition in the past has called for the depoliticalization of the state service. But this law is rather a step towards its politicalization. The proposal newly introduces a five-year term of office for certain civil service functions. For the continuity and stability of the state service, the possibility of exchanging up to practically the entire management section every five years does not serve much according to the party jurisdiction of the current minister, as permitted by this proposal. While existing workers will be able to apply repeatedly to tender procedures and apply again, the problem is that, according to the proposal, some managers will not be appointed for five years but for an indefinite period. This in practice will mean that the worker who does not defend his post in a public service tender will remain and the state will look for another suitable location for him for up to six months, for which he will receive up to 80 per cent of his current salary. And if he doesn't find a suitable location for him, he'll be receiving a considerable severance payment from the state. This unfortunate wording in this bill will in practice only mean increasing the number of people in the civil service that the state will pay. I also disagree with the extension of the number of political representatives, which in practice is actually a kind of promotion of the minister's advisors to the Deputy Minister's posts, but, of course, with the salaries of the Deputys and other advantages such as the car, the driver and so on, who, according to the proposed change, will not manage the individual section, and therefore are practically without a substantial agenda and especially without responsibilities. All of this will lead to further expansion of the number of people in the civil service and will cost up to hundreds of millions of crowns a year out of public money. The proposal also changes the section's specialised deputy directors to the head of the section, who will be able to represent the minister in the meeting under this law, even in the House, which is contrary to the Constitution, namely Article 38 (2) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. That is why the MP club supports the President's veto and will vote against the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Madame. Mr Richard Brabec will now appear, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Those factual arguments have fallen many times today, but not just today. And I think that even the slightly poisoned faces of a colleague and colleagues from the ruling coalition, or rather their lack of participation rather than participation, speak of the fact that you are clear and you are decided. I accept it, I respect it, I take note. However, it was the President's veto that gave him the opportunity to say that again. Journalists, I don't personally follow this, but journalists have calculated somewhere that I am supposedly the longest minister in service, or I have been the longest minister in service since the November Revolution. So seeing what's going on at the Ministry of the Environment, I don't think anyone's gonna get over it for a while. But perhaps it gives me the opportunity and perhaps the right to judge from my own experience, and I have said this here several times, the functionality of the amendment to the Service Act. And it has also been said here that yes, we also know within the framework of the YES movement that the amendment or the service law would deserve certain changes. They were also preparing. But as my dear colleague here said, Madam Vice-President of the House, Klára Dostálová, the changes are not there, but there are other changes that are based on one fundamental thing. So let's get this straight, 'cause it really is, and you know it, too. I know it's hard to sign up for this, but it's just the standard political parties that have it in their genes. It's in your genes. Those guys just have to settle down their smugglers, 'cause those guys decide whether or not they're gonna be elected in those different congresses and assemblies. And it is necessary to please and, of course, satisfy individual regions so that they have their representatives in those ministries, and that's just the way it is, that's in the genes of those political parties. The YES movement was such a perversion in this that it didn't have it and it didn't and it didn't stuff its people somewhere. And you can really check it out at the ministries, just like she used to. And if, today, President Benda, Klára has already said that, Klára Dostálová, she says that we will be surprised that she will actually be the least of the ministers in history. Well, first of all, I'm on it -- sorry, Deputys, the political deputy. So, first of all, I'm curious. So today, I've noticed in the media that Minister Rakušan spoke of three at the most in every ministry, but I'm really curious. But even if that were the case, you forgot to count the head of the section, which, of course, are tens. That means you're going to add to that number that you think is historically the lowest, and it's going to work out completely differently for you, of course. Or we all understand math differently. So you've actually created a whole new structure for the senior directors of the sections, where these people will move, with which, of course, you also have some intentions. But once again, I say yes, as a minister, he should be able to bring in a group of closest people. But then why do you have the problem if you don't consider that there's a lot more to limit that number? Because the designs were here, but the interest wasn't just to limit them. So it's obvious that there's something in the back, of course, that the wine isn't completely clean. But I'm saying again, it's that standard political parties have it in their genes, to cry somewhere, and the ministries, they're offering it directly, their people. And that's how it's going to lead to it, of course. Today, when I look not only at the numbers, of course, in the future very likely political deputy, but advisors, it's also housing in the ministries. We are, and I've already said it, and I'm gonna say it again, and we've just cut the titties off, but the snout still stays. I know you're gonna tell me it's a repeat, but it took over at the time, and it's conceivable to the general public. You just have a lot of noses, which, of course, are eager to get sucked in, but the titties are down. That's why we need to re-enlist the titties so there's nothing to suck on. That's all it's about in the finals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The last one is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, I have performed in practically all readings during the negotiation of the service law, and because the service law falls under the Ministry of the Interior's department, although the Deputy Minister of State is independent, but he always has his place there, he attends meetings with the Minister and also the competent law of the Ministry of Interior falls under the Ministry of Interior's department. So what I'm a little sorry that the Home Secretary isn't here at the moment, because I saw him here, so I thought to myself, I guess he's interested in the service bill, so he didn't care about the data boxes being canceled when he didn't care about setting up the Digital Information Agency, that he wanted to take these agendas from the Ministry of the Interior as a minister. But now for the service bill. I would certainly pass on some things and I would definitely squint over some things as regards selection procedures and other things. But what I can never close my eyes and what I really can't agree with is the establishment of an unlimited number of political representatives. Even if there's no one here at the moment from the coalition, I'd like to tell them that the people who are looking at us are saying that today, the veto of the Service Act is coming back to us - I think it's a good thing - so they have to think, what do you approve of in this Chamber of Deputies, what are you doing here? Do you not know what problems the citizens of the Czech Republic have today? You don't know that we have one of the highest inflations within the EU? You don't know how expensive energy is, how expensive fuel, food, and what's bothering these people? You tell these people not to drown, to save money, to wear sweaters, and on the other hand, you want to create a few dozen news outlets on individual ministries in the form of political deputys. It is indeed a mockery to people, to ordinary people, who are now fighting each crown in individual regions. And if you're from Prague, go to those structurally affected regions. When Mrs Pekarová was talking about the lady from the Karlovy Vary Region today, she's not the only one there, there are hundreds of people there that need help. And you call them "save," and on the other hand, you create countless political representatives. If I compare it with the counselor, then if we look at the consultancy contracts that are concluded in individual departments, the amounts in the consultancy are moving, and I don't want to offend anyone, but from 10,000 to 50,000. I don't think they're taller. Do you know what the political deputy's reward is? In the order of 100 to 150 thousand! That's the reality. Let's get some pure wine, please. It's incredible that you want to transform the vice presidents into senior directors, which means they're going to do the same job they did, and you're going to bring political deputys for 100 to 150,000 who can't control anyone and have no responsibility. Well, tell that to ordinary people. No one can understand that, and it can never be defended. I listened very carefully to Mr Výborný today, through Madam President, when he spoke at Radiožurnál this morning, where he clearly said: We want to separate the political-manager and the professional part. And he knows very well that they were, KDU-ČSL, with us in the government in 2014 and you approved the service law with us. With us, you raised your hand for him. And that service law had to be approved in this form so that we could draw European money. And it was the emphasis that was put there that was depolitical. If you could convince me that it's depolitical... that's not depolitical at all, and we're going back virtually to what was here before 2014, because at that time, too, they were only Deputys who were political, which means that when the new minister came, he switched all of these Deputys. So we're going back to the old order, and we're going back to the way it was. What I do not understand at all, and I believe that the European Commission can never approve this. We were in that year 2014 under a great deal of scrutiny, so that the emphasis on depoliticizing, the professionalisation of the state administration, should be included. And we were really under a lot of scrutiny. And if these elements were not there, I believe that this would not be the drawing of European money. I'm terribly sorry about the deputy professors who are going to transform themselves into those senior directors that they're going to have a five-year term. I think it's very unfair to the people who are at those ministries. I could perhaps mention at the Ministry of the Interior - Mr Henych, the longest serving there Head of the Elections Department, and so on. If this is introduced, so is this sphere...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u43	I apologize, Madame, for interrupting. Serious colleagues, colleagues, please keep it down. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u44	This sphere, I believe, if you put a five-year term in office there - and I am speaking to Marek Výborný now, by means of Madam President, that by becoming the Chief Executive Officers, who will have to go through the selection procedure after five years, I am convinced that even here it will not be depoliticized, because the Minister can practically come to his ministry, and of course there is a five-year term in office, but after five years he can say: I am no longer interested in such a principal in quotation marks, of course he will say that someone better has applied. But I don't think it's going to lead to the fact that the experts aren't going to report to those positions today. So I think it's against them, even for those people who are at those resorts, so I think it's really very, very unfair to them. And now that it is said that - and it has been said by Mr Brabec, my colleague Richard Brabec, who said here that there is therefore talk of bringing in three other political deputys. Please, I'd like to tell you that the law was passed in 2014 and two political representatives joined the Civil Service Act, so it was still very critical to the public and very badly taken. For everyone, a political deputy equals a newsstand. And now you're coming up with not two of them, and most of the resorts are already two of them. I don't want to say that during the last reign of Andrej Babiš, the political deputy wasn't. They were in no way to the extent that they are today, and that's just a fact and it's true. Yes, I'm not saying they weren't, but they weren't to that extent. [[16.00 hours]] And I really have to say that I am wondering at all that you will come up with such a law and, above all, that, at the first stage, in the Chamber of Deputies on the depoliticisation of the state administration, the law on officials touching cities, municipalities and regions was passed here. So it's okay there. There the director of the regional office does not have a term, the head of the department can practically be, can not be in quotation marks, canceled, it must be with some reason and so on, so I personally think that if - and I spoke, I also said here within Marek Benda that if you want to approve here, and at this point you have already approved the service law, even though we have a veto here today, the Minister of the Interior should come up with an amendment to the Act on Officials, which therefore affects cities, municipalities and regions. I think that would be fair in relation to the service law. Mr. Výborný here was trying to gesticulate me for speaking relatively loudly. It's very hard to talk here when there's a lot of noise. I must say that there is certainly no such noise at the moment, but I must say that in this speech and in this speech it is very difficult to speak if other colleagues are speaking. I think the Service Act is a law that wasn't supposed to be here at all. I am convinced that we should be dealing with completely different House prints that are bothering people, but it is a key law for the current coalition and for the current government. I would like to compare this to the fact that we have a lot of slugs and little kale, which is why we need to approve such a service law as soon as possible in order to bring further policies to individual departments in the form of political deputy. I'd like you to reconsider. Well, I've tried that a couple of times. I'm gonna try that now. I'm convinced that if you really approve of this and apply to those ministries, that means you bring countless of those political representatives, I'd like to tell you that in 2014 people were bothered by two people, and if there's more of them, there'll be five, six of them in those departments, so please don't tell people to save money, and I think that if someone says that, they should start with each other in the first place. And you, as a coalition, should first of all be aware of that. If you want something from people, you start doing it and then ask for it from others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. With a point of fact, the President is signed in Excellent. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, my fellow Members, through you to Mrs Vildumetzová. I don't want to start a firefight here, but I can't completely forgive myself for two notes. First of all, the law really sounds clear, and we're not going to have any political deputies here since 1 January. Not one. It will be the Deputys, as you rightly quoted me from my morning media appearance, so it will be the level of political management of the resort, and your ministers have brought the team in as well. And the other thing. And please, sometimes it's fair to admit that you're wrong. Yes, the intention with which we agreed in the joint government in 2014, the law of service, depoliticizing the civil service, it failed. That's right, and we're actually fixing it right now. And if you want to know where and how it went wrong, one walking piece of evidence is sitting there in the bench, and this is a colleague Tom Philipp, who, although he was a deputy, you are your government, you have thrown him out of that position and the court has given him the truth, not you. So this is clear evidence that, on the contrary, there has been a politicisation of the state service as it is not to be. Tom Philipp's colleague is clear evidence of that. And that's exactly why we're clearly separating the two planes here, and that shouldn't happen in the future. Then I'll just explain it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Mrs Berenika Peštová, came forward with another factual action. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. I just want to, because it's always said here, and Mr. Výborný said it here, the Deputys. Yes, but you're going to make these deputy directors, so, for example, because I don't know how to explain it anymore, if there are five professional deputy professors in the Ministry of the Interior today, then I'm going to make five professional deputy directors who are going to drive and do what they've been doing so far, and I'm going to bring five other political deputys, maybe three, it doesn't matter who practically can't run anybody, they're not responsible for anything. So what's different? A political deputy equals a newsstand. It's the only way. That's the truth, and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Mrs Peštová has withdrawn her factual comment. So is President Schillerová. Now, Minister Jana Černochová, with a factual remark. Please, Madam Secretary, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u50	I would like to ask my colleagues to stop insulting the political deputy. I have two deputies at the Department of Defense. Neither of these two political representatives is a member of any party. One has experience from the Ministry of Defence department, when he was a cabinet director in the past, and the other is a career diplomat who worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Neither of them is a member of any political party. They work well, and I'm very glad to have these two Deputys at our resort. So stop insulting them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mrs Ožanová came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u52	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I think, Madam Secretary, through Madam President, no one is offended. The fact that the situation is like this with you, as far as you know, in other ministries, it really isn't. There are people who are stationed there because they are in the right political party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr Havlíček, Vice-President, came forward with another factual claim. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u54	Hello. Madam Secretary, it's nothing against a few or even more capable political deputies. No offense at all. And I imagine you guys have really good people there. And you said right, two people. Then let's drop it. The problem I'm seeing today, or we're sensing, is that the floodgates are released to make it not two, but to make it three, five, seven, ten. I know, you can say it's excessive. And then let's pour some pure wine. It is clearly at the expense of those professional vice-president, who, to say this exactly as you are, are certainly also very capable of being among them, and they are going to fall into the positions of senior directors today, and they will be political over them. And that's what bothers us. If it's like you said, you've got two good ones, everything's fine, keep these two good ones in there. But it's not like we're releasing the floodgates for more tens and tens. I don't think that's right anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, through Madam Vice-President, I even have fewer deputies than my predecessor, former Minister Metnar. And by the way, when my colleague Ožanová said that she played a role here or played a role, or a party book will play a role, yes, there was a representative of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia Mr. Müller who ended up in the Ministry of Defence after my accession as political deputy first. So, yes, he had the right party book in your coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. With a factual point, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u58	To the Secretary of Defense, I hope she listened well to me for saying that in 2014, when a new law of service was passed and it was said that every minister could bring two political deputys into this law. That's how it was in the law. So at that point, it was very negative to the public, and the truth is that, of course, the political deputy may possibly represent the minister of government and so on. And I also didn't say the same thing about these two political representatives, and I wanted to say exactly what my colleague Karel Havlíček said, and that we are now talking about making one function into two. That means we're paying double. And you're really right, Madam Secretary, about the fact that you have political deputies for a party, but they're not political. But in the other resorts, such as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, there are already really political representatives: Edvard Kožušník for ODS, Petr Třešňák for Pirates and so on, but I do not question it in any way. At this point, I am questioning the fact that we will have countless political representatives and that we will make one function into two. This means that it will have a major impact on the budget as well. And I still don't know what the Deputys are gonna do. Because I'm saying again, and you know very well that if you have two political representatives, they can represent you, but they can't control anyone, they don't have any responsibility. That's just the way it is with the political deputy of the Service Act, that's just the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. [[Mr Metnar is coming to the speaker's desk.]] Mr Metnar, I will stop you because there are many facts before you; first Minister Válek, then Minister Černochová and Mrs Peštová. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I'll leave it at that. But political deputy. Then I will explain why I consider this beneficial from the point of view of the Health Department. The last year of the previous government was replaced by four ministers at the Ministry of Health. I get that. The Prime Minister doesn't like the Minister of Health, so he fires him, takes the new one, doesn't like it, takes the new one, takes the new one, doesn't like it, doesn't like it, doesn't like it, takes the new one to go back to the original one. And that's perfectly legitimate, it's a management decision of a capable manager. [[Laughs in the right side of the meeting room.]] But what's funny is that there were also four vice ministers for health care. One, Professor Černý, says hello to Professor Černý, Professor Šedo, hello to Professor Šeda, Professor Vašáková, and finally to Professor Prymula. They weren't political deputymen. Those were the technical deputys who won the audition, and then they left and they won and they went and they won and they left. And I'd like to have either stability, so there's no deputy like that who's gonna go and come, or support. And, unfortunately, neither of those ministers had that in these deputies. That means I wouldn't demonize it, I wouldn't dramatize it. There are a lot of capable, extremely intelligent, extremely hardworking career officials at the Department of Health who are doing their job perfectly, and I greatly appreciate them for that. But I need a stable team around me, and what's been done through a variety of travels behind my predecessors in health care, so now he's gonna be normal, legally. The Minister or Minister of Health will bring a team of two political representatives there who will implement the programme and give the program the task of implementing the professional staff of the Ministry who are top-notch. I assume it's gonna be on all the resorts. And, yes, we can disagree, but I wouldn't demonize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for keeping time. Now with the de facto Minister Černochová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. All I'm going to do is answer my colleague Vildumetzová Mračková, through you, what the political deputy is doing. For example, they will be holding the so-called NGA at the Ministry of Defence since January. Mr. former Secretary of Defense Metnar knows what I'm talking about. It's actually a possession of cash on the phone when there might be an incident in the airspace, so we're just the authority that has certain privileges. And you're not going to transfer that to the head of the section, unfortunately. So we're going to hold only three or four people, the minister and his deputy. And maybe former Minister Metnar will tell me it's quite challenging, because you can't really let that phone out of your hands and out of your sight for a minute. The next meeting led by the political representatives, maybe I can say it this week, and this week Deputy Director Blažkovec will be taking me to Vienna at the Central European Initiative meeting. The Czech Republic is to be president of the Czech Republic next year. I cannot send a deputy there who is not political, and I am presenting the mandate of the Senate missions at the same time as the Central European Initiative is held in Vienna. So he has to go behind me. Now, perhaps I have given some examples to you, colleagues, in practice, to imagine what political representatives are doing for the minister and what cannot be delegated to someone else, because they are political decisions that, on behalf of the minister with his political responsibility, none of us denies that otherwise, these Deputys do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. It is now Mrs Peštová's turn to make a point of fact, Mr Metnar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u64	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Of course, I was waiting for my show to come, but unfortunately, I couldn't. Madam Secretary, this isn't just about you. Looks to me like it's all about the Ministry of Defense. But that's not true at all. We're talking about a service bill that will affect not only the ministry. We're talking about a service bill that will affect another 200 organizations that are set up by the Ministry. This isn't about the DOD. Oh, my God, let's finally get this straight! I listened to a press conference before this House this morning, and I was shocked to hear Mr. Výborný, who says that they are not political Deputys. These are the Deputy Ministers. That's a big difference. No, they're political deputies. They're political deputies, because they're gonna be section heads or, uh, section heads, or, uh, sorry, they're not section heads, yes, section heads, you could say that. Senior directors, section heads. So, basically, why don't we just pour some pure wine here and say yes, so we're just trying to get more people in the ministries? And not just the ministries, but the other organizations? Because we can't just talk about the Department of Defense. Let us also discuss other organizations. Or don't we have them here anymore? Thank you. I'll wait for my show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, Madame. Now with Mr Lubomír Metnar in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u66	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, I would like to set the record straight here, which has been heard from the Minister of Defence. During my time under the current law, there were still two political representatives - two political representatives. I had one taken. And there was a name, which was Mr. Deputy Müller, who was a former member of the ČSSD, a former employee of the Embassy in Germany, a former member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and had no party membership of the KSČM. So it's just that when we're telling each other the truth here, like it was. At the time, the YES movement was a coalition - coalition government - with social democracy, and I had only one deputy who came from social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Vladimíra Lesenská will now do the de facto deed. I don't see it here, so I'm erasing it. And the rapporteur, Zuzana Ožanová, then the Minister, came forward with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u68	Thank you. Maybe I'd like to ask you a question like that. If you want to have your political deputies, the people you trust, which is understandable in a way, then why are there going to be more than 200 executive positions competing for this? That really doesn't make me crazy. For example Czech Trade Inspection Authority, Czech Office for Testing of Weapons and Ammunition, State Energy Inspection, Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing. I could read you more of the authorities, please. In all these more than 200 offices, management positions will be recompetitive. You could have done it another way. You could've made a novel that only touches the ministries, and let the rest of the authorities work, execute the state administration, as they have in their job description.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. The Minister will respond with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u70	Yes, I want to respond to Mr Metnar, through you. I didn't say you had more political deputies. I said you had more deputies, Mr. Colleague. Which is true, and I insist. I also insist that at one point you always say what you need to say. When it was convenient for you to say that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia decided that you wouldn't have ten billion in your budget within the Department of Defense that they took them away from you, it was convenient for you to say that they were communists. And suddenly Mr. Müller wasn't a communist?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. We have now exhausted all the factual points, and it is finally coming to its turn in a proper debate with Mrs Peštová's proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So I didn't want to react with a factual point anymore, because I expected my time to be coming, so I'd rather be in this one where I have unlimited time, so I'd like to respond to the Secretary of Defense. You say you only have two deputys. Maybe I can tell you that I was the deputy too. I've just been put off duty, I've said it here several times, and my work is currently being done by three Deputys. What I did as a woman, as a deputy, assistant professor, is currently being done by three Deputys. So I don't know if it's quality or quantity or what's going on in there. In any case, I say that every ministry is different. You can't keep referring to your Department of Defense. I understand you're upset, but it's really not about you. It's not about you. There. And now, of course, I'd like to, maybe a lot of things have been said here, but I just want to recapitulate to reminisce. This law, or the amendment to this law, was not in the proper legislative works of the Ministry of the Interior or the Government. It wasn't. So if we don't accept this amendment, nothing will happen to us. That means, since it's not a transposition, we're not gonna be forced into any sanctions, there's not gonna be any infringement, there's no reasoned position, there's no threat. It's just this novel is useless. For her to be useless, she's driven at an incredible pace. I'm sure that's already been said by my fellow Member Ožanová. When she entered this land, how quickly she flew through here, how she flew through the Senate and so on. Speaking of which, I've been kind of enjoying watching the Senate lately, 'cause I'm wondering if it's the only democratic insurance policy they've taken on individual laws. I always want to know what the debate is, what anybody has to say about it when there is democracy and they are the only ones who are elected directly, and they always point out to us that they are experts, and that's why these people want them, and that's why they're in the Senate, so I was also interested in the debate on this law. She was really beautiful and apparently insisted on plenary less than an hour. It was wonderfully summarized by Senator Goláň for the ODS - I quote: " Madam President, thank you for the floor. A total of seven senators spoke in this general debate. One of the senators was basing on the amendments. One of the senators actually told us that the law is neutral because he said it's half delicious and half bad, which makes me mathematically converted zero, so neutral. The other five senators who spoke in the debate essentially commented on why we should approve this law as referred to by the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal was approved here. First, we will vote on the proposal." So there was no vote on the amendments at all. So that's the quality of the Senate. That's the quality of the Senate. I was also interested in the quality of the Senate when the amendment to the Energy Act was adopted, the windfall tax, where only Senator Kolářová spoke. Again, Senator Goláň, who explained to her that this is not the case, and that is the end of it. That was the whole discussion on the windfall tax that we had here for hours. A few hours. The debate on the EU regulation, which lasted here for several hours, was also absolutely beautiful, so there was no debate. There wasn't any. So that's how the Democratic Senate works for us. We're sitting here, explaining, then it comes to the Senate. There's an even bigger steamroller that's gonna run it over. And then it goes to the president. Thank God the President dropped this bill and came back to us. Because exactly what he was objecting to, it was said here. Oddly enough, nobody said anything in the Democratic Senate. It's funny, it's sad, but it's true. So what bothers me, or what bothers Mr. President, and that has already been said several times, is an unlimited number of political representatives. You can call it Prime Minister Deputys, I call it political Deputys. They're just political deputies. It's just that he doesn't have to have expertise and we just put them there because we need them there. You're saying, this morning at the press conference, there were three at the most. Three, tops, when the press asked you about it. Why didn't you put it in the law, three tops? Here were the amendments that fell here. Why didn't you agree to at least one of those amendments when you said three at the most? No, because it won't be three tops. Maybe that's to feed the wolf and keep the goat in one piece. So we told three journalists at the most, they're gonna write it beautifully, that's readable, but in the finals, when we wanted to give it to us and put amendments here, none of you raised your hand for it. Why didn't you pick her up for it if there were three political Deputys tops? Furthermore, of course, what bothers me about the amendment is the five years. Of course, that's what the President also mentions. Not just him, but we mentioned it here because we have some kind of career order at the ministries, and not just at the ministries. It was clear here that there were other organizations that were more than 200. When we were on the Economic Committee and discussed the budget of the individual organisations and, of course, on the Economic Committee there were representatives of individual organisations and defended their budgets, these were the issues that fell. They fell from the mouth of Mrs Ožanová, and she asked them clearly if their budgets remembered that new places would have to be set up, if they had the money to do so. And you'll be surprised, quite a lot of them were saying that they were having trouble filling their organizations at the moment, that they just weren't people. They even meet with people telling them straight away that they won't be taking part in any competitions, and they'd rather leave. So that's where your beakers stay, your experts. Because if those civil servants who have the expertise go away, the fundraiser, they've been there for years, they know the history, they just know, they're gonna go away, and actually there's gonna be your experts that you put in there, who can't really be experts in the administrative order, because they can't do that. In fact, they're just gonna sit there and collect the money they're probably doing it for. So I think I've briefly recapitulated what's constantly bothering me about what I didn't get the answers to. I didn't get answers from individual ministers when I asked them if their budgets remembered. Neither of them answered. Now I see, there's only one sitting here again - no, two, three ministers, three ministers sitting here. But no one answered me if their budgets count on it - yes, I've heard you before, Secretary of Defense, but the other ministries would be quite interested in me. [[16.30 hours]] I would also like to know the Ministry of Interior, which prepared this law. Officials prepared this law, gave it to them, tried to put it in proper commentary proceedings. He was there for three hours... You don't have to hold your ears, I, just say the word, I'll pull it down. But I say he was only there for three hours, and after three hours, this law was withdrawn because he didn't have the impact study he needed to get through the proper process. But I also wanted to know the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, why it did not come to an end, why it did not do so by a proper legislative process, why it had to go through the amendment of the law tabled by Members here. Unfortunately, not a single answer. And the only thing we've ever seen is a rolling machine that's probably going to happen now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. With the priority right of the rapporteur, then Mr Nacher from the place applied for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u74	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I thank Mrs Peštová, through the Vice-President, for actually supplementing what I said in my speech, and it concerns why I asked the Economic Committee about the impact of the forthcoming amendment to the Service Act on the authorities present there. Do you know why I asked that? Because just one director of the survey board pointed out to me that he was involved, and that people wouldn't want to go to those competitions, that he just doesn't have the experts. Also, there would be many experts on nuclear safety, I don't think so either. And they will certainly find better paid employment in another sector or go abroad. Even at the office of--
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u75	I'm very sorry to interrupt. Colleagues, colleagues, please be quiet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u76	- for nuclear safety checks, you know that there's been a fall in salary money in two years? And we're supposed to take the experts and compete there? I suppose it's not the only office that has a problem with this. You have really forgotten that these are not just a few ministries, but really many authorities. I know I can't convince you with my rhetoric today. It's quite clear to me. But I will ask, not for me, but for the authorities and for the people who work there, for the experts, I suppose real experts, even with the university, whether it would be appropriate in the upcoming amendment, which was announced by the plaintiff's representative, that there will be another amendment to the Service Act next year, whether you would consider dealing with the fact that you really wanted to compete not only in the ministries, but also in these other offices. I'm putting it more like a subject on whether or not to consider the logic of these things. That's where I read - an office that investigates accidents - I don't know if it's important to compete there every five years. Either I can count it, or I can't count it. And they're really professional authorities. Try to reconsider. As the plaintiff's representative, Mr Marek Benda, has promised that in the next amendment he will also deal with the amendment by changing the law on official self-government bodies so as not to be more stringent in some calls for tenders than the Civil Service Act. I just hope this doesn't just stick to words, and I'll look forward to it being realized. Please try to reconsider. I know you can't do it today, but at the next novel. And thank you for the people involved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u77	Thank you, Madame. Now a colleague Patrik Nacher is logged in from the site. Ambassador, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u78	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will surprise you, I will look at this from a different perspective. Honestly, a political deputy isn't a dirty word to me. What bothers me here in this case is my favorite double standard, because either I'm in politics and the political deputy doesn't bother me, whether I'm in coalition or opposition, or I'm in principle bothered. But what I'm experiencing here - and now I'm turning to my fellow pirát, who I see here, a Member, I welcome you, so I resent you - they ran, they went into politics with the political deputy being a dirty word that everything needs to be depoliticized. And all of a sudden, the political vice presidents are fine. That's what bothers me. I hate the difference in how I act when I'm in opposition and when I'm in a coalition. I'm honestly saying here, and that's why I said I'd surprise you that the political deputy isn't an automatic word to me, but consistently always. And it's not like I'm gonna change it one term from another. So I'd like to ask the pirate Members here where the change took place that they said: we're depoliticizing it from the communal sphere to the nationwide. I remember it in Prague. And it's different everywhere. In Prague, you said that you would be conducting selection procedures for everything - board of directors, supervisory boards and so on. And the result is that there are representatives of the pirát everywhere, and I think the record is now in Prague 5, where six of the representatives are all relaxed, so you guys have been giving each other all those positions, all the elected representatives are being released, are being paid. And as far as the national level is concerned, you ran with the political deputy being a dirty word that you're going to depoliticize it. Now let's ask how many Deputy pirát have. I bet you have more deputies than you have Members. [[Applause and laughter of opposition Members, cry: Excellent!]] Well, I guess I could end up with that, 'cause I'm kind of interested in the answer. I'm simply defending those fundamental positions, whether I'm in a coalition or in opposition, or I'm always changing them according to where I'm sitting at that moment or on which side I'm standing. So that's basically what bothers me about this. I'd like to see the Pirate Party's fighters fight those political vice-president here right now. But of course I'm not gonna see them here because they're at the ministries themselves. And I remind you again, it doesn't fit in. They're not experts, the pirates at the ministries. Why? Because they originally ran for the Chamber of Deputies, so they were counted as Members. So the fact that they've become Deputys is actually a coincidence that they've been skipped by colleagues from STAN, so that's the real situation, and that's why they've become Deputys, which means they're typical political deputys. Like I'm saying, I'm ending it again, it wasn't a dirty word for me, it's not even now, I might be different from some of my colleagues, but it bothers me, it bothers me to change my mind. I'm glad Jakub Michálek just got here. It bothers me about the change of opinion in the Pirate Party, where it bothers them so much that it is the reason for them to actually enter politics, it was the mantra's biggest, depoliticizing, selection procedures, experts. I remember when Jakub Michálek and I argued at the council that basically, when a politician is somewhere on the Supervisory Board, it's already wrong in itself. And I asked him back then, he'll remember - politician, man in politics means he's lost his expertise? It's not like that. I appreciate a whole range of colleagues across for their expertise. That doesn't mean you lose the expertise. But back then, we were talking at this level that a politician is actually losing his expertise in some field and that he shouldn't really be in those positions at all. That was the position, the authentic position of the Pirate Party. And all of a sudden, it's 180 degrees somewhere else. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm concerned about this moment, this disproportion, this change of opinion and this double standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u79	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is still reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u80	Thanks for the word, I'll just take a minute. When we were discussing the law of service, he went through third reading, we have a veto here today. I've already talked about this. I always fight for the injustice. I am convinced that when we change the terms of the Service Act, so that the conditions of the Officials Act should also change and that we should ask the Mayors and the Captains if they also want to change certain things in the Officials Act. [[16.40 hours]] Marek Benda, through the President, clearly told me that there would be no problem with this, so I will, at this point, allow myself, if the veto is overvoted, that means that the service law in this form will be approved, so I will be able to read the accompanying resolution. And this is that the Chamber of Deputies, in connection with the approval of the Service Act, asks the Ministry of the Interior to submit an amendment to the Officials Act. It is clear that the debate will lead to this, but I am convinced that if the coalition has promised this, too, I hope that it will confirm it today by its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. Who is next to the general debate? No one is reporting anymore, general or, respectively, I am ending the debate. Please, if there's any interest in final words. I beg the petitioner or the petitioner's representative, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u82	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think everything has been said, but I will create the space for the four minutes to get to the hall, because I think you know that the government coalition must have 101 votes to vote and that it was nice to spend two hours of opposition criticism here today, but not everyone will. So just a few comments on what was constantly being said here. To Mrs Peštová, who likes to be here and repeatedly upset and reproaches us for being stupid, through Mr President, I would like to say that there has been no proposal for three Deputy Ministers in the debate. There were variants of four, five and leaving the existing two and according to the number of directors of the sections. We made it pretty clear, and we declared it here that not everything has to be written in the law. You know me well that I've been saying this my whole life, some things have to change the world itself and we don't always have to have carefully written - we have so many directors, we have so many deputy ministers, we have so many ministers. He works the world without it. And the more we write, the more often we modify those laws over and over again. And I consider it unnecessary for us to have to intervene in the law for every change. This was the main reason why we resisted the attempt to limit the number of deputy ministers and declared that we are, yes, dividing the civil service to the level of the senior directors of the sections, who should be the expert apparatus, then to the level of the Deputys, who should really be the one who comes with the minister, and then leave with the minister and help him manage the relevant resort. That's the first point. Second point. I spent quite a long time in the Senate over the Civil Service Act, going through three bodies, two committees and one committee. And I have to say that I have been blamed for things that did not finally come to the Senate resolution because I implored them that I expect the President of the Republic to return this bill to us so that we could discuss it as soon as possible. I have been accused of things that are not reflected in other laws, such as the law on conflict of interest, in the law on judicial order, administrative and in others, in the laws on courts and judges, which, let's say, are technical errors, but to the very version that arose and left the House, no more fundamental reservations were made except for the individual senators, and it was clearly stated on all those committees that the the thesis which are part of the bill, that is, the minister comes with his representatives and those who run the resort and the state service is supposed to have a competitive assumption that once every five years each must try to defend their position and function, these two parameters in the Senate have in no way been questioned. So much for my final word. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will overrule the veto of the President of the Republic. I completely understand the opposition, and we did it in opposition, too, that it criticises the Civil Service Act. But I hope that the opposition understands that we need a situation where the civil service is completely concreted by the people who first came to the governments of Bohuslav Sobotka and then Andrej Babiš and who correspond to this political composition, that there is a need to create at least a certain degree of internal competition and a certain degree of shift of people who actually have the expertise and not only loyalty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. I'll make sure you asked for a four-minute break? No, no, no, good. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Yeah, so we got this straight. I will also ask the rapporteur for the final word. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to sum it up a bit. Yes, the Senate did not return this bill to the Chamber of Deputies, even though it was proposed by two Senate committees. We have now dealt with a fundamental subject in plenary, mostly a fundamental subject to the President. The essential clause for which he has given the veto is that the function of the so-called political deputy is not in the organizational arrangement of the administrative order of the stage of the proceedings and so on, and ultimately it is a well-paid transaction. We also discussed other arguments put forward by the President in his veto, which were distributed and supplemented. So much for that during today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u85	I thank the rapporteur for the final word. Article 50 (2) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic states that if the Chamber of Deputies insists on the passed law by an absolute majority of all Members, the law shall be declared. Otherwise, the law was not adopted. I will ask that the necessary quorum be set for this vote. In the meantime, I'll read you what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the following motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies insists on a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended, pursuant to House Press 215/5.' I've also noted the application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log in with your I.D. cards again... I think that the number of Members in the Chamber has settled, I have read the motion for a resolution to you, so we know what we will be voting on. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 182 Members voted in favour of 103, against 78. The motion has been adopted and I note that the resolution has been adopted and the law will be declared. We have now had an interest in voting on the accompanying resolution. I'll read it to you. The accompanying resolution is proposed by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and the accompanying resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Ministry of the Interior to submit an amendment to the Officials Act in connection with the approval of the Service Act." This is the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u86	I'm sorry. I will only use my priority right to say to Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, we expect that the law on state officials will be passed. Nevertheless, I consider it to be a huge villain that we are trying to pass laws, and even to add some accompanying resolutions to the adoption of laws that come back from the President of the Republic, from the Senate. For this reason, we will abstain as a government coalition. Not because we don't think we want to submit an amendment to the Officials Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u87	President Schillerová and Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. I would have responded to President Benda. So I would ask, is that contrary to the Rules of Procedure? [[Member Benda responds from the scene.]] Then express your will by voting. You're just declaring that you're counting on it. Then I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u89	Minister Stanjura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u90	It is therefore in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to submit a motion for an accompanying resolution, but the proposal must also be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And no matter how I look at it, the Home Office doesn't have a legislative initiative. A legislative initiative. The Home Office cannot submit a bill to the House. It can be done by a Member, by a group of Members, by the Senate as a whole, by a council of a higher administrative unit. And the government. But the Ministry doesn't. So, in my opinion, this motion for a resolution is not voteable, because even if we did accept it, the Ministry of the Interior simply cannot comply with it, because it does not have this power to submit a bill to the Chamber of Deputies. And I would ask the House not to modify who can submit, which ministry, a proposal to the government. This is a matter of executives and not the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u91	Madam President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u92	So obviously, Minister, you've returned to a role that you've certainly been better off with, and that was the chairman of the ODS MP's opposition club. Here you were a fish in your pond, it's worse at the Treasury. Tell me the truth - you don't want it. And don't look for excuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u93	Lady of the resolution, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. [[He doesn't have priority rights!]] There is no debate. The only way out of this situation is to adapt the motion for a resolution. [[Mr Benda responds that this is not even possible at the moment.]] That would be something that someone would have to step out of the ministers, reopen the debate, amend the motion for a resolution in the debate, and then vote on it. [[A commotion in the hall.]] Madam Speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u94	Don't be mad at me, you're looking for substitute problems. You all know what my esteemed colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová was going to say by this resolution. So let's vote, say you don't want it, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u95	We probably have nothing else left, although this resolution does not make any sense, but it has been read in the debate. [[Laughter from the right]] I think the cleanest solution will be if we all vote on it and see how it turns out. I will read the resolution once again to make it clear what we are voting on: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Interior Ministry to submit an amendment to the Officials Act in connection with the approval of the Service Act." I think it's obvious. We will take a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the motion for this accompanying resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 182 Members were enrolled, 61 voted in favour, 16 opposed. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. Madam Speaker is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u96	Thank you. Not to the accompanying resolution anymore. I would like to say that, of course, we are aware of the majority here in the Chamber of Deputies, so we can predict how the presidential veto will end. However, all the debates that took place today during the two hours - two Deputys, three Deputys, as it will be, what it will be - will soon be answered. The government is already on the agenda this week, I think it's point B.5, state administration systemization from 1 January 2023. The material is in eKLEP, we're studying it, we'll introduce you to it when the government approves it, and most importantly, we'll introduce it to citizens and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-001-001.u97	Thank you. If there is no one else reporting, I will end the discussion of the House press 215/5 of the Civil Service Act. We will continue with the next item in our approved programme, which is:
