ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u1	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up. Commencing session 34 of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with your identification cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 33rd meeting. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 65 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 17 August this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Petr Vrána and Members of Pavel Žáček. Mr. Ambassador, I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? Please, I give my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u2	Mr Vice-President, maybe interrupt me, I will respect that, but I do believe that the procedural proposal under Paragraph 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 6 may also be submitted before the vote on verifiers. This is a situation where an extraordinary meeting is convened and a five-day period is not respected. In this case, this meeting was actually convened on Saturday 4.37, if I remember correctly the time, 27. 8. although the proposal was tabled 16. 8. This means that this meeting was actually convened on the 11th day. The President has not complied with the deadline for an emergency meeting. I'm pretty understanding because it was basically caused by the last long meeting. However, I would point out, quite kindly, that this is a very dangerous precedent, because there is a violation of the right of a parliamentary minority, the one fifth, the forty, who have the right to have an extraordinary meeting within ten days, and this in quotation marks by the method, if someone had thought this through to absurdum, it could be achieved that another parliamentary fifth would have done its counter-meeting or, in cooperation with the House's leadership, the counter-meeting would have always been a little earlier, and then it could have been disproportionately prolonged. And that method can actually be used. And so it would happen that the extraordinary meeting would not be within ten days, and that is the essence of Section 51. The deadline is inexhaustible, it's mandatory. Even the legislator didn't even count on it not to happen. There isn't even a defense against it, it just has to be a meeting in ten days. The only defense is when a Member argues that he did not receive an invitation five days in advance, then the vote is on it. Therefore, I perform by analogy pursuant to § 51 para. 6 and I say the same proposal that we first vote on the adjournment of this meeting because the ten-day deadline has not been complied with, and I propose that we adjourn indefinitely to meet the chairmen of the Members' Clubs and, where appropriate, determine when this meeting will take place. Thank you for your attention. It's really not my nitpicking, it's not just that I want to rot in some way. I see it as a dangerous precedent when a ten-day deadline is broken. Thank you for understanding. I don't want to deal with this extremely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u3	I respect that, including the procedural proposal. I'm just saying, for the record, there wasn't a deal made so we could vote on it, which means... I'm still assuming President Benda's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u4	I will, of course, not object to the President's procedure, but I believe that nothing can be voted on before the appointment of the verifiers - nor on the procedural proposal. Verifiers are the ones who need to verify the meeting that took place at her. This is the first step under the Rules of Procedure that must take place. This means that the first vote to be taken is the vote on verifiers. All other votes must be taken afterwards. On what Mr Vondráček said when we got there, I quite agree with his objection. If the opposition behaved more reasonably last day, the organizational department recommended that we put in a meeting at some point. But unfortunately, if it takes 11 hours to approve the agenda of the meeting, and that lasted, I think whoever's mowing the wind is picking up the storm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u5	To deal with Mr Vondráček's remark, I think that the proposal is legitimate, and I will ask the chair of the ANO club to take this issue to the meeting of the Gremium, so that we can deal with it within the framework of the great Gremium. I also want to say one thing for myself: it is not just about the vote, but in that case also about the presentation of procedural proposals. In that case, it must be made clear that it is not possible to present procedural proposals or any other proposals until the verifiers have been read and approved, and only after the verifiers have been identified and approved, it will be possible to speak with priority law and even within procedural proposals, because these things are closely related. At this point, I understand that President ANO is reporting, but the only concern here is that at this point there will be only an argument against the argument of who has behaved. And we are at a stage where we are unable to even vote or actually set up this meeting because we are not a quorum. I will ask you, Madam President, of course, to give you the floor, because there is no use in how to proceed so far. But I would ask all of you, even in the light of the late night's time, to be of some assistance so that we can interrupt this meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. It's an advanced hour, Mr. Vice-President. I don't think you should give me your word. The meeting has begun. I have priority rights, I can get off at any time. Of course, I'll take the problem to the grémium meeting. I will also ask House legislation to comment on this, on this procedure. Above all, I would just like to respond very briefly with one sentence to President Benda, with the fact that I have translated his words: because you have been naughty, so we can break the Rules of Procedure. That's how I understood it. So I'm sure I'll want to go to Gremium, because we'll continue to propose extraordinary meetings, that's one of the basic instruments the opposition has. And as my honourable colleague Radek Vondráček explained, we could basically be very often and very dangerously reduced to our rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u7	So, more or less, what I assumed was that a series of priority rights would call for a discussion of priority rights, when individual arguments would disprove each other. Of course, at this point, there is no common sense, which means I will grant the words, but I point out again that we are not in a phase where we are in a position of quorum and therefore the meeting is not set up. Mr. Chairman Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think I must look back, Madam President, through Mr President. To really talk about some kind of punishment, it didn't really happen here. There is no quorum here at the moment. This is also a matter for you, because, of course, as an opposition, you could have been in a position of quorum here without any difficulty, the meeting could have somehow progressed somewhere. And I am convinced that, as the Vice-President said, as colleague Marek Benda said, at the moment, there is nothing left but for the political grémium to decide on progress towards this meeting. We can still go through the interruption here through the President for five minutes. If you have other MPs here, bring them in so that we can be acquiescence and vote on the verifiers. If that is not the case, the meeting, although formally launched, cannot continue, and then the political grémium must decide. But it is no punishment from the coalition against the opposition. I really don't. Most of it's your business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u9	Please don't shout at yourself. And Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u10	Just on the political grémium - I would like to clarify the question of whether anyone may speak before the verifiers are appointed. I think it's impossible. Verifiers, and everywhere it is done, on all the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies, it has always been that way at the Chamber of Deputies meetings, it has always been that way, first the verifiers will be established, because they are the ones who are supposed to testify if that was the case. And since we're already playing this fact as a very formalistic interpretation, in this formalistic interpretation, and I said I wouldn't blame the Vice-President of the House, he shouldn't have been given the floor to his colleague Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-08-27-ps2021-034-01-000-000.u11	Since I am leaning on the interpretation that this is not specified, I will be glad if we really return to the Gremium to make it clear for futuro, how we will continue in the opening of the meeting. And I think the initiative that President Vondráček came up with is quite appropriate. Thank you for this cultivated discussion. And since we have not been able to reach a quorum and we have been able to approve the verifier, I am interrupting this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you and I wish you a good morning and a good Saturday.
