ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u1	11. Government bill on medical devices and diagnostic medical devices in vitro /house print 167/ - second reading Vladimír Válek, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health, will present the proposal submitted for the plaintiff. The President of the KDU-ČSL Club shall apply with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, Government, Colleagues, Colleagues, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, I would like to make a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Section 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 8 a proposal to merge the general and detailed debate in second reading with the Press Houses 167 and 168, i.e. with the Government's draft Act on Medical Devices and Diagnostic Medical Devices in vitro, that is printing 167, and a subsequent government bill amending laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on Medical Devices and Diagnostic Medical Devices in vitro, the House's press 168. Please, pursuant to § 54 para. 8 has now been formally voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u3	Okay. It is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote and then I will merge the debate. So I am opening the vote and asking who is 167 and 168 in favour of merging the debate with the House press? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 26; 128 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 117, against none. This proposal has been approved. For the sake of order, Minister Šalomoun Michal, Minister for Legislation, will present this press for the duly excused Minister of Health. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the floor. I take the liberty of presenting this bill here. He actually responds to two regulations, the first is the regulation on medical devices and the second is the regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. These regulations are directly applicable, but there are some things that need to be fine-tuned in the Czech legislation, especially in specific laws the authorities that will supervise the implementation of the regulation and then some sanctions and other things need to be adjusted. The problem was that these regulations had different effectiveness. While the first regulation on medical devices has already been implemented and we are satisfied because we also have a special law, the second regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices does not yet apply, and the proposed legislation serves that there is another vision so that we do not actually have two parallel laws, where one will, so to speak, implant the regulation on medical devices and the other regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. So that one law is actually abolished, and the material is transferred to a separate law that you should vote on. So instead of two laws, we're actually going to have one, which I think is pretty positive news. As for the other, the accompanying law, these are really just technical things, where the advertising regulation law is slightly changing in connection with the adoption of this law and also with the Act on administrative fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u5	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 167/1 and I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Věra Adámková, take the floor, informs us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, it hasn't been that long since we've been here discussing these prints at first reading. Thank you for bringing the debate together, because one really complements the other, and without that merger, we would be spending twice the time here, which I do not think would be useful. Allow me only for those who are not members of the Health Committee and therefore do not have this press so studied that I can sum up very quickly what we will actually approve and what we will move forward to the next reading, very quickly. So first, print 167. As the Minister said, the content is a proposal for uniform and comprehensive regulation in the field of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices, and therefore replaces actually the current legislation, which would no longer be fully in line with the current wording. This was due to different dates, where the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 5 April 2017 on medical devices and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 5 April on diagnostic devices was directly applicable at European law level. That is why we are discussing this proposal with the Parliament's amendment press 168 because they are closely related, they are interlinked, and I therefore have to say that although this proposal was prepared by the previous Ministry, the current Ministry has left all the benefits, and even there - and this is rarely happening to us - a draft implementing decree has been tabled, for which I have to appreciate both ministries, although that is not there anymore, but the officials are more or less the same, so here they have prepared this for us. For those who do not do so, they still want to know something about it: it is the definition of the person who carries out the administration in the area of funds. I'm just pointing out that we have here the State Institute for Drug Control, the Technical Standardization Office, Metrologists and State Testing, next to the Ministry of Health, so we already have three very important organizations. The scope is defined here, including supervision and other obligations, the issue of free sales certificates and it is also defined who is the founder, administrator, operator and so on, where there was no clear definition. I will not read individual parts, there are eleven of them, it would be really long, but I must conclude by saying that this proposed draft law on medical devices and diagnostic medical devices in vitro has tried to adjust a wide range of issues including clarification of clinical trials and evaluations, clarification of the rights and obligations of state administration, market surveillance, control, vigilance and offences. Part four defines the rights and obligations of the Ethics Commission, where some questions were raised at the committee at the time of the hearing to the representatives of the Ministry of Health and the committee were clearly explained, so the definition also became clear there. In addition, part eight, section 47, service and routine technical inspection of instruments were discussed, where the rights and possibilities of the owner of the apparatus were again clearly defined, or these things were not discussed there briefly but very sophisticatedly. Furthermore, the obligations of distributors and servicers were defined, including a description of their duties to the Institute, where the definition is clearly clarified. As regards the use of funds, including the safety of use and the imposition of an obligation on the provider to maintain a unique identification of funds, including exceptions to the possibility of special use in the event of a threat to the health or life of the patient, Section 33 of Part Six describes the delivery of funds, where some additional inquiries were again made to the Committee towards the Ministry and was explained. [[12.00 hours]] So it's all from this press. Allow me, given that we have a merged debate, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u7	Madam rapporteur, there is no merged debate; the second point will be mentioned separately. I will then merge the debate. I'll ask you to maintain this structure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u8	Okay. I will just sum up that the passed law takes over the existing legislation for prescribing and dispensing medical devices from Act No. 89/2021. It applies it to the area of in vitro diagnostic medical devices. This is largely dealt with by regulation uniformly in the European Union. However, the Member States are to be left to the competent authority to assess applications for clinical examination and so on to have its own word there, which has been fulfilled here. So much for opening the press 167.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-003-011.u9	Thank you. At this point, I interrupt printing 167 as we voted, and I open
