ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u1	97. Government bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Rights Related to Copyright and Amendment of Certain Laws (the Copyright Act), as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Printing 31/ - Third Reading Please - and it has already happened - Minister of Culture Martin Baxa has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table - and also the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, i.e. the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Šimon Heller. The amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 31/6, which was delivered on 27 September 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House press 31/7. So now I ask the appellant whether he has an interest in speaking before the debate is opened? He does, so please, Minister. And please, colleagues, once again, about silence especially in the right, but also in other parts of the hall. Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, dear fellow Members, honourable guests, at third reading today we are discussing a proposal for an amendment to the copyright law and other related laws which transposes two directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. In my second reading, I think I presented not only the proposal of the novel itself, but also what has already been read...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u3	Yes, Minister. I will ask you once again, colleagues, to move to the lobby if you want to deal with anything, no matter how peaceful the atmosphere is for the plaintiff's performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u4	Madam President, thank you. What was read in the meeting of the guarantee committee, and I want to comment on other parts of the proposal. Let me just say, before I comment on some amendments, three particularly important points. The first is that I am glad that we have reached out to our joint negotiations that this law can be voted on at third reading. This is, as I have already mentioned, a transposition where we are very late, and if we are able to discuss and approve this bill at third reading today, I would say very far away from the possibility that we are being initiated a procedure involving some financial sanctions. The second thing is that - and this is true at every opening of the copyright law on legislative ground - this proposal has, of course, provoked a number of responses from the actors concerned. For copyright, it is particularly true that it balances the situation in an environment where different interests meet and differ and where it is necessary to tread very carefully in this respect. It is my great thanks to my colleagues from the Ministry of Culture for the very detailed and detailed debate they had with the actors at the time when the proposal for transposition was prepared and prepared a proposal that was generally acceptable. However, after it was due to take place on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I do not think that, to some extent, the not-so-great energy of my predecessors in the ministerial office has brought this up, so I have finally brought this proposal here. Let's just say he's triggered a whole series of other initiatives that somehow appear in this and which I will then comment on. The third thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that at the moment we are aligned with the vast majority of the amendments, which I am commenting on with one exception, which I will also mention in detail. I consider it very fair to say what the Ministry's position on individual amendments is, because it is not only essential for the vote but, above all, for the matter itself. Let me now comment on the four amendments that appeared at second reading, and I would add another amendment that has already been agreed by the Guarantee Committee, but to which the big debate has now developed. The first of the amendments I would like to talk about is marked in the Houses of Press 31/6 as B. This is Mr Lacina's amendment and is related to the newly introduced right of publishers and periodicals. The aim of this amendment is to strengthen the protection of publishers, in addition to the protection provided by Art. 15 of the Directive. I would just like to underline that one of the two main reasons why this European directive was issued is actually strengthening the protection of publishers in relation to so-called information society service providers with a dominant position on the market. The term "information society service providers" refers primarily to the largest platforms, I would mention, for example, Google or Facebook, and in fact, the whole directive and our transposition are dealing with what their relations are and what needs to be done to make the environment more balanced. [[9.40 hours]] Mr Lacina's proposal is therefore the result of very intensive discussions with representatives of publishers, including publishers of online periodicals. I would like to emphasise - and this has appeared in several of the suggestions that have come to us in the last few days - that the aim of Mr Lacina's parliamentary proposal is certainly not to make it difficult to combat disinformation or to limit the development of these information society services in the future. I want to stress it this way and underline that it really was not our aim to block the fight against disinformation or to limit the development of these services in general. I would say the diction of some of the dissenting materials would be very urgent, so I consider it important to assure you that some of the points that have been raised there really do not correspond to what is contained in the amendment itself. The Ministry of Culture has a favourable opinion on Mr Lacina's amendment. Another amendment I would like to address is the amendment marked C, which was tabled jointly by fellow Members Michálek and Heller. This amendment complements Section 23 of the Copyright Act on the negative definition of the term "public communication' in the case of radios and televisions in certain premises. It's important here to say one important thing. There is talk of the concept of "public communication', which is an autonomous concept of Union law, and its interpretation is solely for the EU Court of Justice. That means, it's not a random connotation that was used to denote something, but it's just one of the key pillars of this part of the copyright law. I stress that the provision proposed in this amendment can only be interpreted in euro conformity, in accordance with the case law of the EU Court of Justice and very restrictively. Again, I stress, very restrictively. All criteria must therefore be met at once, accessibility for a narrow circle of persons, random, independent of the wishes of the beneficiaries and non-profit-making nature. As a result, this amendment concerns a limited number of establishments or rather specific situations, because virtually in any case a radio or television apparatus located and set up in the premises is placed there not at random, but is placed there to make the environment more comfortable and to improve the quality of the services offered - type-sized shops, restaurants and the like - and thus indirectly contributes to a greater profit. I would therefore like to stress that Mr Michálek and Mr Heller's amendment does not undermine this fundamental principle of interpretation of what it means to communicate to the public, but it concerns a very limited number of establishments and situations, or if I use a simplified term, it may concern situations where the saleswoman plays the radio for herself in the next room and the sound can be heard at random in areas accessible to the public. In this case, it would not be worth operating here if I put it this simple, this communication to the public. It doesn't change in all other cases. It is a proposal that raises a great deal of debate. We not only discussed it in detail at the Ministry of Culture, but also had a debate with the actors. We are aware that this is some extreme position or extreme position of the case, but we believe that it fulfils both essential features, i.e. compliance with the case law of the EU Court of Justice. It is therefore not a provision that is against European legislation and therefore very restrictively fulfilling all the criteria must be applied at once. That is why we are giving a favourable opinion on Mr Heller and Mr Michálek's amendments. After the first reading, the amendment agreed by the Guarantee Committee has caused quite a lot of reactions, especially now in recent days, and I will therefore return to it. It is Mrs Kocmanová's amendment, which relates to the so-called automatic blocking of content. It's used for this simple "overblocking" jargon. I want to go back to him because even though this amendment was agreed by the Guarantee Committee after first reading, it did not raise any more debate or second reading, so I stress that in the last few days, really in the last few days, I would say a little storm in our e-mail boxes, and I had a few suggestions on this matter. So I would like to sum up why we support this amendment and why we do not think that the concerns that arise are justified. We would like to stress that this amendment is intended to specify that the so-called automatic blocking - this amendment only concerns the so-called automatic blocking - will only concern the content which is identical or equivalent to the content reported by the right-holder. The definition of "identical content' and "balanced content' is added. This amendment is based on the European Commission's Guidelines for the Application of Art. 17 of the Directive, from the Opinion of the Advocate General and from the Court of Justice's caselaw in the case of an action by the Republic of Poland. We are aware of the concerns of representatives of some of the entities concerned, particularly rights holders, regarding the provisions on automatic content blocking. The most frequent concerns are that the amendment will narrow down the interpretation of the obligation to remove or block illegally recorded content and that the content, which should be blocked in the opinion of the rights holders, will continue to appear on the storage sites. This does not concern this amendment. I would like to stress that, in addition to the relationship between platforms and publishers of the same European directive, the very objective of number 2 is to strengthen the position of right-holders. The purpose of what we are translating here is that - and I do not want to name anybody specifically, but in the Czech environment certainly at least one of this repository is widely known - so the aim of this transposition is to make it difficult to use this illegal content. But what Mrs Kocmanová is proposing does not have anything to do with the fact that it should make it difficult for those who are holders. This applies only to situations of so-called automatic filters and nothing changes that the obligation to block or remove content will apply to specific parts on the basis of information provided by the rightholder to the storage operator. In my opinion, there is an unjustified concern that Mrs Kocmanová's amendment would make this worse, which is why my ministry is giving an opinion on this amendment. The last, fourth amendment I would like to comment on is the only amendment from those tabled, on which my ministry clearly gives a negative opinion. It is Mrs Kovářová's amendment. It is related to the newly proposed modification of licence agreements in the Civil Code. These are so-called buy-out contracts. For those who know this environment, this is a very important matter. If, hypothetically, we should accept what Mrs Kovářová proposes, this will have a very negative impact on the licence market and will lead to a deterioration, I stress the deterioration of the position of some authors and performers, namely the exact opposite of what the Member has probably followed with her amendment. It is another issue of copyright, which, of course, is complicated, which describes the situation, if I simply say so, when performers, authors who create the work, can either receive a one-off reward for it or receive an ongoing reward for how it is handled. This is also always the subject of some trade relations between the various actors. But what Mrs Kovářová is proposing would not help in this situation, so we are giving a negative opinion here. Finally, in view of the fact that this proposal has taken some time, Mr Heller, the rapporteur, will, after agreement with the Ministry, make a technical amendment regarding the change of effectiveness. It's just a little something to do with it. By focusing on this issue for several months, ladies and gentlemen - apart from that one amendment, we have paid great attention to the amendments tabled - several other amendments have remained in the walls of the Ministry and the parliamentary offices, which we have not found appropriate. Thanks to this good dialogue between Members and my Ministry, I think that even in the wording of the amendments that we will support, the transposition will be approved in a good way. [[9.50 hours]] I would therefore like to conclude by saying that, in the wording of the amendments that we will be voting on here, except for Mrs Kovářová's amendment, I will clearly recommend approving this bill. And I think that it will mean both in the part concerning relations between information society services and publishers and in the part concerning copyright protection, especially in relation to so-called storages, it will be of great benefit. Thank you and I am ready in the debate to respond to any questions that will be raised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u5	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I am now opening the debate to which Mrs Pokorná Jermanová and Mr Babka, Jáč and Heller signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Minister. I will be very brief and I will not surprise you that I will say what I said in the first and second reading, and that I am very sorry that we have not retained the consensus, the agreement that arose in the original bill, which lies here for quite a long time, and I am sorry that we are only getting to it now. However, my colleagues - Mr Babka, my colleague Jáč, will comment on the various amendments, and I will not take their topics away from them, and I am glad that they have taken such an active stand. However, let me conclude by saying that whatever form we adopt the copyright law, I just hope that it will not be attacked and that it will not conflict with the European directive, because I am not convinced, and I am not alone. And once again, I am sorry that the consensus reached here is not at the moment. I commend the excellent dialogue you have with the Chamber of Deputies, Minister, unfortunately, with the other actors, the agreement is already worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u7	It is now registered with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's factual remark and followed with priority rights by President Michálek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u8	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, I would like to respond to your speeches and, above all, to the amendment tabled by Jakub Michálek. I would like to say that at first reading I called you for this amendment, where I announced that we had already tabled this bill in the previous term with the amendment, so that entrepreneurs who have a radio on in their quotation marks in hardware, hairdressing and so on do not have to pay for it. I am very pleased that Mr Jakub Michálek tabled this amendment, because I must say that I felt that you were giving a negative opinion on this at first reading. That is why I am very pleased that you have changed it and that a coalition partner has put it forward, because if we may have presented it, the question is what would that opinion be. I would like to say that, just in the last term of office, we have brought this up with Milan Ferenc, with Adam Kalous, but there has been no discussion, so I would like to say that I am very pleased that here is that you have changed this position and that you have given support to this, because it will certainly make it easier for entrepreneurs, even at this difficult time, that they will not have to pay the fees if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u9	Thank you for keeping time. President Jakub Michálek is now registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on some of the proposals that I have been involved in or on by colleagues from our club. Firstly, we have approached the whole issue of copyright with what we had in the Government's programming declaration, and there we have committed ourselves to sensitive implementation with emphasis on users' rights and a fair reward for the creators. This is also the basis for all the amendments that we will be voting on today. In Amendment A1, which the committee recommended, this concerns not creating a new union that would decide for people who do not represent, which we considered not to be the ideal direction for further development of copyright. In Amendment A2, my colleague Kocmanová proposed an adjustment that would draw up the European directive in terms of filtering, because the European directive as such contains new requirements for filtering access to materials stored on storage sites in some way. This may, of course, be useful from the point of view of copyright, but it raises a number of questions in terms of freedom of expression and not overstepping the right rate so that it does not effectively censor, for example, satirical video recordings, video sequences and so on. So Mrs Kocmanová's proposal ensures that the filtering mechanism will be properly implemented, which we have expressed some doubts about ourselves. Another proposal we have made with colleague Heller is the so-called lex hardware store, or who wants a hairdresser, or the Minister has a saleswoman, so that is a proposal that really follows the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I must respond here to the concerns that have been raised here that this proposal could be contrary to European law. This is not the case, on the contrary, I think that the Ministry of Culture has processed it well and completely at the limit of what is possible, how it is possible to help people in this group. It is true that the proposal does not merely contain the condition that the communication, that the operation of the broadcasting must be non-profitable, but there is also a second condition that it must be in relation to a narrow circle and it must be made available at random, so that these conditions must be met simultaneously. It doesn't really mean that in large shopping centres or in luxurious operations, under-drawing music is free, it really doesn't. We follow the principle of a fair reward for the creators, which we have expressed by collecting a fee where music actually has an economic effect, and, on the contrary, it must not be chosen where public communication does not take place. Unfortunately, historically, the practice was that interest groups tried to expand and expand their fields of competence to logically raise as much money as possible for represented entities, but in this we must follow the principle of justice - everyone who belongs to them. This proposal was also supported by the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, so there is really demand for it. And it's true what my colleague Vildumetzová said here that the proposal was already under consideration in the last parliamentary term, where unfortunately it didn't get to him. It was designed by us as pirát, designed by YES, designed by the SPD, and proposed by the Senate, so I think that is a very remarkable consensus of a united will across the political spectrum. I believe that today we will be able to bring this matter to an end and that we will accept the proposal as submitted by the Ministry of Culture and on the basis of a coalition agreement. Finally, I also wanted to thank the Ministry of Culture, namely the Minister and the coalition partners, because the energy involved in this - it really worked very honestly, it was the subject of many debates and fine-tuning and discussions with interest groups, various actors, so that we could actually submit a proposal that corresponds to promises in the government's programming declarations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u11	Mr Babka is now registered and Mr Jáč will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u12	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I'd probably start my act by responding to the Minister. You have spoken here with the fact that the copyright law has been prepared very carefully, that it was prepared well, and then in the second breath you will add that you will undermine this laborious compromise by supporting various amendments which, as it came here, introduce new concepts, for example, and those actors who are involved in this strongly disagree with some of the amendments. Before I get to what I want to emphasise here, I may comment on Mr Michálek's amendment, and now I must say that I completely agree with the principle of this and that I think that the objective that this amendment wants to achieve is correct. However, unfortunately, as it is written, it is in my opinion written wrong and the concepts that it contains, such as a narrow circle of persons, random access or non-profit nature, are very vague and are not known by the copyright law. And I'm just expressing my concern here that there will be a number of lawsuits in the future that will have to be resolved. The aim of my speech here - and I therefore ask the rapporteur to listen to me at this point - is the amendment by Mrs Kocmanová, who, as has already been said here, concerns overblocking, and I see the problematic introduction of the new § 51a. Therefore, either in response to the rapporteur, when he proposes a procedure, or I would like to ask him if this could be set aside and let § 51a vote separately. And now I come to the reasons why I am not in favour of Mr Kocmanová's amendment A2 and, in particular, Section 51a. I consider Mrs Kocmanová's amendment to be a good example for the use of saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. The problem of the Czech Republic is not in overblocking, as could result from the amendment by my colleague under point A2, but in copyright violations. I draw mainly on the reasons why I do not support the amendment from JUDr's position. Tomáš Dobřichovský, who is a recognised capacity in copyright and co-author of a great academic commentary on the copyright law and lecturer of the Constitution of Copyright - you have all received these opinions, especially by members of the school committee - and also by the section of the cultural and creative industry of the Chamber of Commerce. The good intention of the Member is that he wants to prevent the operator of the shared content service online - and here we can say, for example, Save. that or Rajče - he did not block, for example, the recording of holiday photos containing some author's work or maybe they are named the same as some author's work. In such a case, the automatic filter will intervene and will not upload the photo to you for copyright protection, even if there is a solution to such a partial problem, for example, in the fact that the filter would upload the photo, but to eliminate the problem of copyright violations, it may limit its sharing to only a small number of users, let's say a hundred, so that it can be limited to 100 so that you can share the photo with your friends, your family and so on. As a result, the amendment by the Member will have a very negative impact on the functioning of these shared content services as such, on the grounds that constitutional rights to a fair trial on the part of the service client will be violated, on the part of the service operator, on the part of the authors' copyright infringement, and these are the three main actors in breach of their rights. And now I'm gonna get to how. The infringement of consumer rights will simply result in a consumer who will not be able to defend himself, because an action by a legal person entitled to defend the interests of competitors or customers, virtually any legal person, maybe deliberately planted to lose the action with the platform, appears on the scene. There will therefore be an action by this dubious legal person, who will take precedence over the consumer's litigation, and will suspend the dispute. So instead of correcting the operator's infringement, for example, by recording the photo, the consumer will have to wait for the outcome of this dispute, which leads to the operator by a legal person who either loses and the consumer does not record the photo, or the legal person wins the dispute and the consumer does not record the photo, because the victory of the legal person in the dispute means that the operator must not continue to operate the sharing service, i.e. the recording of the photos. In both cases, the consumer will not achieve what he seeks, i.e. to upload the photo. It violates its consumer rights and constitutional rights to a fair trial. Now, about how there will be a violation of constitutional rights to business. This will be done simply so that the legal person who wins the dispute with the service operator cannot seek to upload the photo, but only to ban the operation of the service, because I think the changeling is unthinkably written. So, I repeat, he can't try to upload the photo, but only to ban the entire service. Therefore, in the event of losing a court, the service operator is disproportionately punished by a ban on the service, in no time and locally limited manner, contrary to the principle of proportionality. Instead of having the service operator record the photo - the one that was the subject of the dispute - and paying for the damage caused by it to the consumer and, above all, that other consumers are not negatively affected by the dispute and can continue to use the recording and sharing service and share their photos. So I'm going to say it again - whoever wins the dispute isn't going to get a backup, but the cancellation of the entire service, so it's going to end up on all the other users of the service. Copyright violations will occur so that an incorrect operator of a shared content service online - because, of course, not all entrepreneurs are correct - so, for example, a pirate website that serves to share illegal content will have an excuse not to set up an effective filter to prevent the storage of this illegal content. I have tried to explain in a very simple way why a good intention in preventing freedom of speech and the right to private life will lead to the exact opposite, i.e. a violation of the rights of consumers, entrepreneurs and authors. I hope that I have explained this in a very clear way and that you will also recognise that the whole amendment is wrong in my opinion, but that Section 51, which introduces a mass lawsuit, does not just belong in the copyright law. Therefore, allow me to reiterate once again that I am not likely to support or will certainly not support the amendment by my colleague Kocmanová. I shall ask the rapporteur, if it is possible to set aside a vote, at least that section 51a, and I thank you accordingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u13	Mr Pavel Svoboda is now making a point of fact, and then the Minister with priority rights has signed up. First of all, I ask the honourable Member, in fact, she has priority over priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u14	Thank you. Colleagues, let me briefly express my position as chair of the Sub-Committee on Culture on the Amendment to the Copyright Act. First of all, I'd like to say that this is the first time I've had this level of lobbying here. Yes, I'm a rookie, but at least that's how I know how things are going around here, and that's why I understand why the minister doesn't want to open, even for partial reasons, a memorial law. Copy that. As far as copyright is concerned, if I make it very simple. So we have things on the left that we all want for free, people who aren't willing to pay for it. On the other hand, we have people, companies and associations who just want to make more money. And the Ministry here, in my opinion, has come into some very fragile compromise that is negotiated. [[10.10 hours]] I will honor the opinions of the Ministry of Culture, I will support them, and I know copyright from my own experience from many roles, both as an interpreter represented by INTERGRAM, which means that these organizations are also pushing me. Then as the organizer who pays the Protection Union to the author, that's the second plane again. And we just need to balance these things. We have a compromise here, please, let's support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u15	Minister Baxa is now reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u16	Thank you for the floor. Just a quick step towards Mr. Babek. Mr President, through Madam President, I very much appreciate your interest in this matter, but I must ask you not to really confuse colleagues and colleagues from all sides across the Chamber of Deputies, because the analogy you used on this photo is completely missing what is the aim of what Mrs Kocmanová says and I am defending myself against it. You're still using an analogy with your photo or the photo that this person takes and wants to record somewhere, but that doesn't even concern overblocking, because whoever takes the photo is the author. So you're using a completely off-limits approach because in this situation, you're using the fact that whoever takes the photo is therefore the author of the photo and seeks to record it, whereas co-worker Kocmanová and the whole issue of that concerns blocking works that are contrary to the right-holder. The right-holder here is the author of the photo himself, okay? That is completely - I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador - but the analogy is beyond what we're talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u17	Mr Jáč is also entered in the debate and will be followed by Mr Heller. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly add some comments to the amendment of the copyright law. I think that here in summation there have been significant opinions and substantial arguments, and we are getting into this situation, as the previous speaker has already indicated before me that we should - and of course the responsible ministry should - accept some resolution of this not perhaps a dispute, but this complicated situation. I was a little concerned about this even in the past period, as it was remembered here, when it was almost approaching a successful outcome. Of course, we know the situation that we have, that nothing is certain and everything can change all the time, so here we are again. Four amendments have been added, which are those parties, as has been suggested here, which protects their rights, and those who want to use them in some way, I do not want to say abuse in quotation marks, and find some compromise. Perhaps I would remind you, since so many criticisms have already been made here, at least some positives. As an educator myself, a university professor, I very much acknowledge that the amendment should allow, first, the non-lution of content, as we have said here, cartoons, possibly satir and simulator, which is often more in the position of virtual content and some, say, artworks, but they can also have a very futuristic-technological intention to outline some perspective of human development, perhaps, but it can also be in the beletrical position. That's one thing. Secondly, I very much welcome the fact that today's teaching can be used quite a lot so-called Internet, i.e. that we can use teaching materials for non-commercial study purposes without payment, or some revised sources and teaching materials, and distribute them among the students so that it is possible to provide these documents in a very timely and original manner without any meta-processing. I would also like to say that we, like everyone who deals with this, have received an incredible number of different expressions from associations, interest groups, defenders of various works and, on the other hand, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic, which I am also a member of, and I would also not like to ignore its role - in turn asking that the other party, the user, the business, the operator, may be the cornerstone of the accident in the case of that one amendment by Mr Michálek, through the President, please, that - it has already been discussed here - it could be said that I am in the establishment or we have an establishment, we are playing something there, but we claim that it is not an establishment, because there is no one at the same time, or does not notice it. So whether he puts the radio or the TV in the air somewhere, with permission, and he listens to it himself, or we just have to find a compromise. I said maybe I'd try a suggestion, too. Let's think about whether the Chamber of Commerce or Chambers of Commerce could enter into this, which would have some delegated authority - perhaps a strong word - to help solve this problem on specific premises so that they could invent some reasonable reward for the licensed copyrights used so that both parties - do not want to use the case from the animal empire about the wolf and goat - both survived, okay? Well, maybe we could at least think about doing this, because we know that sometimes, when they visit us, an establishment, an Osa worker, they'll come up with some overwhelming amount and, after some discussion, they'll give way to dozens and more percent, so it's obvious that there might be a will in this and that the chamber - although we're not in the Federal Republic of Germany, when it's mandatory for tradesmen - that it would be possible more across the board, but it might also lead to some tradesmen - and because I'm also a representative of the Protection Union over there (?) in Liberec - they could therefore enter more, because there would be some kind of protection or some kind of approach that would enable them to defend themselves even with some rather brutal enforcement procedures, the collection of those fees. Well, that's probably a question after some other future. I would, if I were to allow myself to end my comments, I would certainly be able to continue. I can only say that I would not in any way like to recommend or conclude any assessments, yes - not individual amendments. We will probably decide this by some plenary vote and practice will still have to help itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u19	Thank you. Your speech raised Mr. Babka's factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u20	Thank you. It was not a performance by my colleague Jáč, but I would like to respond to the Minister, precisely because we did not understand each other. I didn't mean the authorship of the photo, but the fact that the photo contains something that needs to be copyrighted, or maybe it's a name, and that's why the automatic filters are there, and that's why the creation of paragraph 51a will lead to the very consequences that I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Heller is another member of the debate and Mr Lacina can be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, let me read the correction of the date of effectiveness of the bill amending Act No. 121/200 Coll., on Copyright, Copyright-related Rights and Amendment of Certain Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, House Press 31, as the Minister has already mentioned. This is the adjustment in Part Seven, the effectiveness of Art. VII, the words "with the exception of the provisions of Part Six, VII, point 2, which shall become effective on 7 June 2022', shall be deleted. [[10.20 hours]] The reason is as follows: the government bill envisaged divided effect - while most of the law was to take effect on the 15th day following its publication, the effectiveness of Part Six, Art. In accordance with the transposition Directive 2019/790, point 2 was submitted on 7 June. In view of the course of the legislative process, the length of which could not be anticipated, there is now no division of effectiveness as that date has passed. For this reason, it is proposed to delete those words. The law will therefore take effect as a whole on the 15th day following its publication. For the sake of completeness, the effectiveness of Article 4 (1) (a) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be assessed in accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 8, "This law shall take effect on the fifteenth day following its publication. " Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u23	Thank you. So now the last one in the debate, Mr Lacina. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u24	Thank you for the floor and I wish you all a pleasant Friday morning. After all, I feel like one of the players of what has now been happening at this point in the last roughly six months, the need to make a little comment or a brief comment. We, as the STAN movement, are based on the fact that at all times we protect Czech authors, Czech producers and publishers so that the funds from their invention stay here, and not only from the invention, but from all that they create, and promote pluralism, creativity, diversity and quality, whether they are works of music, or, for example, the work of journalists, publishers of the periodic press and so on. Figuratively speaking, we are always on David's side against Goliáš. Of course, there are more David and Goliáš too. The EU directive is heading towards the same. The European Union is a slightly stronger player on that scene against the entire planetary players who have already been mentioned here. National states are relatively weak in this regard, so I welcome the high probability directive to see the light of day and to approve it today. Allow me to thank Minister Bax for the mediation of the compromise that we are putting forward today. Sometimes, as representatives of the STAN movement, it was a little on the threshold of pain, but pain that can still be endured. It is indeed a compromise proposal. So I would just like to declare here that the STAN Group will support those amendments in accordance with the position of the petitioner, the Minister of Culture, Baxa. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u25	Thank you. If there is no one else in the debate, I see no one else in the debate, then this is the end of the debate. Before we come to terms with the various amendments, I will also read the apology received. Mrs Peštová Berenika apologizes from 11 a.m. to 9 a.m. tomorrow morning for health reasons, Mr Skopeček Jan from 9.30 a.m. to 11.10 a.m. for work reasons. I'll ask if there's any interest in the Minister's final words? He's interested in getting off, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u26	[[There's a noise going on in the O.R.]] Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to thank you once again for the debate that has been held over the past few months. I would also like to thank you for the debate that took place here. As Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová mentioned, this is a proposal that already has a history, so in its context we also considered it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u27	Please, colleagues, I'm sorry, Minister, but please keep it down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u28	I also tried to explain to my colleague Babka the context of the argument he was using, and I would like to conclude by saying one more important thing and actually follow up on what Professor Jáč mentioned here. He specifically named one important thing: in the case of copyright in general, no matter how precisely formulated the text of the law is, there is always a great deal of space and many actors who are actually only in practice aiming at how the standard is applied. Therefore, any interference with the current text of copyright - including that, and I would like to emphasise that this is the transposition of the directive - is causing some, I would say, a nod to the environment. But I think that even in the past, this situation has always been resolved to the satisfaction of all parties, including that in some cases, as has happened in the past regarding - I have - the feeling of hotels or health facilities, the court finally corrected what was originally adopted in the Chamber of Deputies. So we have really approached with the best knowledge and conscience to give consent on what does not undermine the fundamental principles of copyright as far as the amendments are concerned. And we believe that if this standard finally takes effect after the Senate is discussed, we will be able to turn these amendments into effective and functional practice. So thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u29	Next I ask, is the rapporteur interested in the final word? He doesn't. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. I'm also registering your interest in the check-out, which is why I've checked you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. Please, Mr rapporteur, and others, please turn down and pay attention to what we will be voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for voting in the House press number 31, the amendment to the Copyright Act. The procedure would be as follows: the proposal to reject the bill was not filed, so first of all we would vote on the technical regulation submitted under Section 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 Efficacy. We would then vote on Amendment A1, the launch of extended collective management, then Amendment A2, where points 1 to 3 are. The proposal for a procedure is to vote en bloc so called overblocking. Following Amendment A3, the ban on the general supervision of the content of stored storage users was expressly supplemented, then Amendment A4, repealing the obligation to report live music production to the collective administrator of the OSA, and then we would vote on the amendment of Mr Lacina B1 to B4. The draft procedure is to vote en bloc again. Following the amendment by Mr C Michálek and Mr Heller, aka "hardware" and then by Mr Věra Kovářová D1 and Mr D2, vote en bloc as a whole. Finally, vote on the final bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u31	Thank you, rapporteur, and since there has been a request from Mr Babka for a separate vote, the Member does not apply it any further, there is therefore no interest in counter-proposal for the procedure in question. However, given the greater number of individual proposals, I would still vote on this procedure as presented by the rapporteur. If anyone else has any counter-proposals for the procedure, now's the time to sign up. I don't see anyone. I shall therefore begin the vote on the draft procedure. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 153 in attendance, for all 153. So we approved the draft procedure. And I again ask the rapporteur to take us through the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u32	We would be the first to vote on the draft technical regulation submitted under Section 95 of Act 2 on Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 Effectiveness and this is the release of the text as mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u33	Opinion? I suppose... [[Rapporteur: Positive, consent.]] Yes. And the Minister? [[- Agreed.]] Initiating vote on legislative technical adaptations. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 153 in attendance, all 153 in favour. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u34	Amendment A1. It concerns the launch of an extended collective management for the publishers of periodicals. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u35	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] I am opening the vote on this amendment. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 153 in attendance, for 102, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u36	Amendment A2, so-called overblocking. We are voting points 1 through 3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u37	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: agreed.]] Mr. Speaker's opinion? [[Agreed.]] I am opening the vote on the motion tabled and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 153 in attendance, for 101, versus 40. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u38	Amendment A3 - expressly supplemented by a ban on the general surveillance of content imposed by users of so-called repositories. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u39	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 153 in attendance, for 148, against none. The motion was accepted. Please come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u40	Amendment A4 - cancellation of the obligation to report live music production to the collective administrator of the OSA under certain conditions. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u41	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] I am opening the vote on the motion tabled and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 153 in attendance, for 140, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u42	Now the amendments tabled at second reading. Amendment B1 to B4 en bloc of Mr Lacina - supplementing the amendment of the new law of publishers of periodicals, in addition to the protection of the provider, Art. 15 Directive, introduced new implementation of the Minister of Culture for the situations listed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u43	Opinion? [[Agreed.]] And the Minister? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposals? Who's against it? Voting 78, 153 present, 148, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u44	Membership proposal C of Mr Michálek and Mr Heller - hardware store alias hairdressing. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u45	Thank you. Mr. Speaker's opinion? [[Agreed.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 155 in attendance, for 138, versus 3. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u46	Membership proposal by Mrs Věra Kovářová D1 and D2, voted en block. Restrictions on the scope of cases where the licence fee can be agreed in the form of a lump-sum payment. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u47	The petitioner's opinion? [[Disagree.]] I am opening the vote on the proposals tabled and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 155 in attendance, for none, against 101. The motion was not accepted. That is what we have dealt with all the amendments, isn't it, rapporteur? [[Yes.]] Thank you, and we should vote on the bill as a whole. I have Mr Cogan here in fact, but that will be a mistake because we are out of the debate. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright, Copyright-related Rights and Amendment of Certain Acts, Copyright Act, as amended, and Other Related Laws, pursuant to House Print 31, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I am opening the vote on this resolution and I am asking who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 155 Members and Members signed in for 128, versus 17. And I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. I'll hand over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-002-097.u48	Have a nice morning and open point number
