ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u1	46. Members of Patrik Nacher's proposal, Robert Králíček, Milan Wenzl, Lubomír Brož, Marek Novák, Ondřej Babka, Martin Kolovratník, Josef Kott, Roman Kubíček and Zuzana Ožanová to issue a law amending Act No. 229/2002 Coll., on Financial Arbitrator, as amended /German Press 34/ - First Reading Once again, the Government's position has been delivered to you as House press number 34/1, and I will ask Mr Patrik Nacher again to present the proposal. And I beg you, fellow Members, to be quiet so that the Member may address you. All right, Mr. Ambassador, hold on. Even Mr Munzar, please go to the foyer if necessary. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the peace of mind. I will try to convince you, colleagues, especially from the coalition benches, to put this proposal on second reading. It's press 34, Act No. 229/2002 Coll., on the financial arbiter, which extends the circuits to deal with the financial arbiter. I'm going to say these circuits in a minute, and you're going to find that it has a ruthless logic, but I'm going to remind you that we've already expanded the circles of things that are going to be dealt with by a financial arbitrator twice in the last month, and it was completely without problems - one pan-European fund and the other was yesterday's vote on the issue of the DCC, a dynamic currency exchange. Even there was a financial arbiter law, so it's actually nothing special. It is proposed to extend the scope as an out-of-court dispute resolution body, which is always cheaper on principle for consumers and faster - or it should be - than to refer to a court, namely to settle non-life insurance disputes. Today, the financial arbitrary is covered by life insurance, but not non-life insurance, and there are products that even have both of those ingredients in them. In the middle, the consumer turns to a financial arbiter, and in the second half, he turns to a ČAP Ombudsman - the Czech Insurance Association. It's just as confusing for consumers, I'm going to give you a parallel here, like the energosminds, where the moment you're offering them energy, it fell under the ERO, but when you were offering them some convenient light bulb or participation in the auction, it fell under the CHOI. And we've united that all these cases fall under the E.R.O. Another thing that's spreading is pension insurance with a state contribution and supplementary pension savings, a logical financial product where people have some expectations that if there's a problem they might turn to outside the court - a financial arbitrary. And at the same time, that circle of consumer-credit disputes would spread when the guarantor's in there, which isn't where these cases are right now either. I'm asking you to let this go to second reading, because we're able to heal by voting and by amendments any changes that I've noticed in the hallway chatter that maybe there might not be a non-life insurance dispute, and we could at least put something in there. But I will convince you or I will try to convince you - I am convinced that it really makes sense that we simply have to do things the way we do at the Energy Regulatory Office, at the Czech Telecommunications Authority, and at the financial arbiter, so that those things that fall under financial products, so that consumers know who to turn to and have an alternative to an independent out-of-court body. This means that even though you may not agree with the extension and would like to put an amendment there, so you can simply report it in the second reading, it can be narrowed down, but I think that the extension of one of the three items that I have informed you about here makes sense for me as part of the expansion and increase of consumer protection, which, by the way, is the point that you have in the government's programming statement. The government's position is neutral, as I read it. I will read the first point, and I do not want to delay: "The government is aware of the problems posed by the current fragmented resolution of out-of-court consumer disputes in the financial market, where the jurisdiction to resolve these disputes is entrusted to several entities and the way in which disputes are resolved is different for individual entities. This fragmentation is particularly pronounced in the case of insurance disputes where two different authorities are responsible for their resolution in the event that both life and non-life insurance are agreed under one insurance contract.' That's what I've been talking about. "This situation certainly does not contribute to a clear understanding of how consumers are to deal with their disputes with service providers on the financial market, nor to legal certainty in this area of consumer protection. The proposed solution to the current situation is considered by the government to be systemic and universally beneficial for the area concerned.' Then, of course, that's why it was neutral, there are some criticisms on some points. The question is whether I should read it now or leave it for the next reading, but I think we should give this proposal a chance to go through it for the second reading. At second reading, we may have been struggling with some amendments that narrow it down, or maybe somebody might even suggest enlargement, and we will also show that we are going to have consumers have an institution to turn to in consumer disputes, and they do not have to use the courts in each of these disputes and to overwhelm the courts. Let me just remind you at this point, because these are products that are, say, automated or similar, that we still lack a thing that might help solve this in another way, and that is the institute of mass lawsuits, that means mass proceedings, which we will still have to accept here sooner or later. And that's what we're missing because, for example, some of these insurance policies are similar, or even the same, they're like a copycat. That means, maybe there's a substitute for that by being a class action suit, but there would be one lawsuit of thousands or tens of thousands of cases. So briefly for the introduction and I thank you for any support from government benches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u3	I thank the appellant's representative, Mr Nacher. The rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Jan Kuchař, should now take the floor, but I do have information that there is an agreement to change the rapporteur, namely for Mrs Barbora Urbanová. We must vote on this change. I'm just gonna ask if Mrs Urbanová is here and she's okay with it? Yes, so we're going to vote. We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of such a proposed change? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 70 vote, 142 Members were enrolled, 116 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. And I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Urbanová, once again, to introduce us...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u4	Good evening, colleagues. I'll start with the reason for the proposal. The scope of the financial arbitrary includes the resolution of consumer disputes from almost the entire financial market. There are still sectors where consumers are denied their dispute with the financial institution through the financial arbitrary. The mass financial services are mainly non-life insurance and both variants of individual old age insurance, i.e. pension insurance with a standing contribution and supplementary pension savings. Explanation of the main principles of the proposed legislation, let me sum it up for you. It is proposed to extend the scope of the financial arbitrary as an out-of-court resolution body for consumer disputes in the financial market, which is responsible in a binding manner to decide the dispute between the consumer and the financial institution. Newly, the financial arbitrary should be responsible for resolving non-life insurance disputes, supplementary pension insurance with State contribution and supplementary pension savings. [[19.30 hours]] At the same time, it is proposed to extend the scope of the financial arbitrary to another range of consumer credit-related relationships, which as such is already within the scope of the financial arbitrary. For example, where, in addition to the consumer, i.e. the credit recipient, the guarantor is acting or if the debt is secured by a lien or if the consumer has recognised the debt. With the club's opinion, I will join the general debate. I'm sorry if I repeated my colleague, but it's quite a new situation for me, the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u5	Thank you very much. Before I open the general debate, I will read the apology received. Mr Benda apologizes from 19.30 pm to the end of the working day for reasons of work; there is also an apology between 19.24 and 21 pm of Mr Kobza, also for work reasons. Between 7:30 and 21:00 he apologizes, or until the end of the day he apologizes because of the illness of Mr Faltýnek and between 18:00 and 21:00 he apologizes Mr Karel Tureček, Mr Karel Tureček - without giving a reason. I am opening a general debate. Mr Karel Haas is attached to the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u6	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, in the general debate, and then, of course, in the detailed debate, I am signing up for a motion to reject the motion tabled, for a complete rejection. I believe that the petitioner or the translator's representative, because he is a group of petitioners, will understand that I do not have to waste political reasons, but a set from my point of view of relatively strong - and you will decide in the vote how strong those reasons are - strong, factual, professional reasons. I take the liberty of having a little bit of self-esteem in the fact that I will be spoken of for 21 years in practice, by November I really spent 21 years in the financial sector, so 21 years in the practice of a lawyer who has passed a lot of proceedings both before the financial arbiter and before the court of financial disputes. I've got two sets of reasons. The first circuit will be organisationally functional and financial reasons and the second circuit will be legal reasons. For those organizational and functional reasons, I'll start with the speed of control. I am turning again primarily - because the material is very technical - primarily for lawyers in this House, who will confirm that the ADR ADR ADR ADR ADR ADR system is based on European regulation and the underlying reason for its introduction in the 2013 ADR Directive was, among other things, the speed of management. In a specific article of the ADR Directive, it is even stated - it is not an absolute rule - that all ADR systems should operate within 90 days of reaching a decision. There is, of course, an exception in the directive that the time limit may be exceeded, and the average duration of proceedings before the financial arbiter in the Czech Republic in 2019 was 523 days, in 2020 360 days. So take, if this tool brings what it really should have brought to consumers in the Czech Republic, that is, the speed of control. Well, it doesn't, and it doesn't bring for many years. You can check these data in the annual reports. I haven't brought up, I haven't called you here since 2011, since the financial arbiter existed, so I only took the last two years. So we are moving in numbers and lengths of proceedings that go beyond the vast majority of the functioning of the prime district courts, which should have been an alternative dispute resolution substitute. Compared to how the state certified works, I emphasize not the private but the state certified Ombudsman of the Czech Insurance Association. I'm drawing again, please, from the annual reports, it's not gonna be a defense, it's not a fiction. Average duration of proceedings with the Ombudsman of the Czech Insurance Association in 2019 40 days, in 2020 46 days. So compare the time performance of the Financial Arbitrary Office, because it is not about one person financial arbitrary, but about the operation of the office, and the non-state, but certified by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, certified by the NSA for alternative dispute resolution. So the speed of management in the current Czech regime, in the current Czech practice, the Office of the financial arbitrary absolutely does not meet. I'm sorry to be so critical, but the data is hard and relentless. The second organizational-functional and financial reason - costs. The office of the financial arbitrary is a budget sub-chapter of the Ministry of Finance, managed in 2020 with costs from the state budget of CZK 69,6 million. It had 57 systems, and in 2020, it adopted 1 228 proposals to initiate the procedure. I will again make a comparison with one of those non-state centers with the ČAP Ombudsman. The Ombudsman of the CAP, the cost of the state budget zero. Cost from the state budget, I repeat, zero against the CZK 69.6 million. 3,13 seconded staff from the annual report and 200 proposals, 200 proposals received to initiate the procedure. This means, when you compare the numbers, 18 times more employees of the Financial Arbitrary Office, but only six times more proposals to initiate proceedings, with simple numbers roughly three times less efficiency. And it's not necessarily about people, it's about the organization of work, the functionality of the office inside and so on. And now, the figures, the hard facts from 2019, 2020 I will complete the impact of the proposal I propose to reject. The submitters themselves - and they say this fairly but not entirely - put an impact on the state budget in the explanatory statement of the circus of CZK 24 million, an increase of 34 percent compared to the current state. This number is really from the point of view of wages - and now I emphasise three times, only wage costs - really probably the right estimate, it also comes from the annual financial arbiter reports, but it is not a complete number. If we put non-life insurance disputes into the scope and powers of the financial arbiter, then I will get to that in the legal pillar, which means, among other things, the enormous costs of expert opinions, because who you have ever represented in non-life insurance litigation, these are compensations for non-life damage to health, extremely complex. For an expert assessment of non-material injury to health, there is one of the most demanding fields of expertise, combining what is almost in the law of the most difficult, some financial assessment of severe injury to the injured or even compensation of secondary victims in the event of the death of the primary victim. It is a big dispute, for example, from insurance of buildings with the amount of costs for repair, reconstruction or re-establishing the destroyed construction. See thousands of harmful events after tornadoes, after other natural disasters. The costs of expert opinions and prizes on expert opinions can be imagined by all lawyers in this hall, at least in the order of units of another million crowns. If the financial arbiter takes over disputes from non-life insurance - then I get to the other proposals - then it is expected that the idea will be at least the same as it is currently with the Ombudsman of the Czech Insurance Association. Non-life insurance disputes aren't all 200, but they're the prevailing majority. So the explanatory memorandum certainly underestimates the impact on the state budget of CZK 24 million. Other things that are not included in those costs are the technical cost of seats for the new 20 employees. There's no ICT technology costs, rents from their offices and so on and so on. The reason report does not count on it at all, and perhaps even the petitioners will recognize that the 20 new employees have to work on some hardware, some software, they have to sit in an office, they have to light up in their office, and so on. So they are, that's the set of organisationally functional and financial reasons for which I really consider the proposal to be bad for me to be gorgeous. And now for the legal reasons. I've already given them a little hint, and I've really tried to distinguish those two pillars of reason. I've already hinted here, and now I'm going to speak for the non-life insurance area that's scheduled to be entrusted to a financial arbiter. Then I will touch on the area of liability for debt or security of debt from consumer credit. [[19.40 hours]] First, the non-life insurance dispute area. Dominantly, and it can be seen again on hard figures, because the CAP Ombudsman publishes these figures in such detail in annual reports, really dominantly attack consumer disputes from three types of insurance from non-life insurance: construction insurance, vehicle insurance, vehicle accident insurance and vehicle liability insurance caused by the operation of the vehicle. And I've already suggested - and I've actually had a very three-digit number of these disputes in courtrooms - these are disputes in which it is typically a professional issue that is not about the legal assessment of the insurance contract itself, as is needed in life insurance disputes. This is typically a technical question so that you can imagine the cost of reconstruction of damaged or destroyed property, the cost of repairing the vehicle or the most difficult cases of compensation for injury, in particular injury to health or injury in the event of killing. The court knows the law, but does not know the professional question, so an expert opinion must be drawn up on any expert question. You will probably confirm to me again that it is not Haasův's invention that the situation with the capacity of experts in the Czech Republic - and this is a long-term state - is unhappy. The experts are actually declining due to their low ratings, so expert opinions are expected in the order of the month. I'm not really talking about the costs right now, but they talk or wait in the order of the month. And today's disputes about non-life insurance - and I do not praise any of the parties to these disputes - are typically transformed into a multi-layered war of expert opinions, where the opinions of the parties, both sides of the dispute, are started, followed by mostly a court-ordered expert opinion and ended with at least a review, if not a review expert. You can imagine that we will entrust this agenda to the office of the financial arbiter and that it will help - I can imagine that we will commit it, but we will make the most fundamental mistake and it will totally go against the whole ADR system, that is, against the entire ADR ADR system. I'm going back to the carrier. Simplicity and speed - well, we won't get the speed. What can we expect if this proposal goes through? In my opinion, we can expect a significant extension again at the time of the financial arbiter's management. In 2019 it was over 500 days, in 2020, the office actually withdrew it for the 360 days. I think it's going to be a significant increase in the three-digit number of days. We can expect a significant increase in costs for the state, even those not mentioned in the explanatory report on the proposal, which means the cost of expert opinions. Can we expect that, of course, disgruntled entities, whether from the financial arbiter's management, which is supposed to lead to reconciliation, so if one party, either a financial institution or a consumer, leaves dissatisfied, then what do they have left to manage the financial arbiter? They have to turn to the administrative justice system. And can you imagine how a poor consumer will end up in administrative justice? Do you think that one of the consumers in this country is normally a party to administrative justice? Well, people aren't part of the administrative justice system. They are typically involved in civil disputes, but they are not members of the administrative justice system. In administrative justice, paradoxically, but that's how part of the Fifth SEC is set up, it will no longer be a participant in the management of the financial arbiter, that is, the financial arbiter will not at all defend its statement, which it has in the finding of the financial arbiter, in administrative justice. That means, there will only be a given institution against the other participant in quotation marks, there will be no financial arbiter behind his back. So we're going to throw a very likely large group of consumers into the disputes that I'm going to say are going to follow up on a few hundred-day financial arbitrary proceedings. That's simplification, and that's an alternative solution to consumer disputes? Well, no one can be serious. And that last legal reference. On one point, in my opinion - I allow it to be assessed, it is my personal legal opinion - the proposal is unlawful, and it is precisely within the scope. In my opinion, there are three powers, and it is contrary to how the European ADR Directive - it is implemented primarily by the Consumer Protection Act, which defines, I will tell what disputes and disputes about which legal relations may fall into the ADR system at all. And I'm stressing now, that's really higher legal, I'm sorry to all the non-lawyers, there's no consumer credit to secure consumer credit. Securing, whatever form it takes, liability, real estate provision, provision of mobile property, provision by some hedging transfer of law, hedge institutes are in the Czech legal order a number. It's a separate legal relationship, it's not a primary relationship from the consumer credit agreement at all. So to propose that consumer credit disputes be the subject of financial arbitrary proceedings, in my opinion it is contrary to both the European ADR directive and realize that Czech law must - for this there is also an x decision of the Constitutional Court, the Czech Supreme Court on the fact that the implementation of European directives and then the application in Czech law must be euro conformity. Those are the reasons for which, indeed, perhaps out of substance - and I have promised that there will be no waste of politics in them - these are the factual reasons for which I propose rejecting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u7	Good evening, honourable Members. We continue further in the general debate in which Mr Aleš Dufek is enrolled, which is the last one so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be much more brief than my previous speaker, who has put a lot of emotion into this, but I dare say that I support his legal opinion or political opinion, and it also leads me to experience as someone who has been living for 25 years as going to court. They say the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I absolutely have no doubt that a fellow translator, and this also has to do with him as a political past, is fighting for consumer rights, but in this case we are not really helping the consumer. I experienced a wave 15 years ago when it was said that our courts were incompetent, slow, inefficient, so everyone was screaming, so let's settle matters in arbitration. So they all wrote arbitration clauses in the contracts, then they issued referees, then those referees went to execution, then they were subsequently interrupted by the court, those referees. And then some courts, when the arbitration findings were attacked, admitted a suspensive effect, some did not admit a suspensive effect. And I'm afraid that, in fact, there would be a similar process in this case. This means that, at the beginning, the decisions of a financial arbiter in these matters would be respected, and then, after a certain period of time when there would be various excesses, there would be suspensive effects and then, of course, it would be that, in its essence, all of this would be considerably stretched out and complicated. And one last thought. I support what my colleague said that right here, in the case of some non-life insurance benefits, I can't imagine when those people would run out of their rights. That means, even though I have huge reservations as an attorney for our courts, and it's logical that I have reservations about them, I would leave them more at their disposal and let people handle these things through the courts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u9	Thank you, too. Now the rapporteur, Mrs Urbanová, has come forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u10	As promised, I signed up with the position of the STAN movement on the proposal. We see, above all, three risks linked to the adoption of the proposal. Firstly, the extension of the financial arbiter's scope to consumer credit debt disputes may appear problematic because the existing out-of-court consumer dispute resolution system introduced by the Consumer Protection Act is designed for disputes arising from purchase contracts and from service contracts concluded between businessmen and consumers, which also applies to the financial market. The financial arbiter then resolves disputes about contracts for the provision of financial services, which is to secure the commitment, although it is not from the financial service. The second of the problematic areas to be subject, according to the proposal, to the extension of the scope of the financial arbitrary is the non-life insurance area. This includes in general both certain insurance of persons, such as the permanent consequences of accidents or illness, invalidity insurance, civil liability insurance, and insurance of property property property and their equipment, motor vehicles for example. [[19.50 hours]] In fact, non-life insurance disputes are not limited to the assessment of the validity of the contract, as is typical of death or survival insurance, but are often concerned with the examination of the specific circumstances of insurance transactions, i.e. whether there has been an insurance event, what is the amount of damage and what should be the amount of insurance claims. The need for expert opinions will lead to an extension of the length of disputes, which is contrary to the nature of the financial arbitrary as a place for quick and effective resolution of consumer disputes. Thirdly - and this has already been done here - we believe that the proposed bill would be linked to a significant impact on the state budget, much higher than the estimated CZK 24 million. And I won't do it again, colleagues. So STAN's position is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u11	Thank you. This has been the last one in the general debate that is still under way, but no one else is reporting, so I am ending the general debate. [[Mr Nacher is reporting for the floor.]] I'm sure you'll have the final word, Mr. Speaker. So I am ending the general debate, and I am now asking for the final words of the petitioner first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I would like to thank my Honored colleague Karel Haas for actually taking it professionally and for not really having any indication of any policy or simplification or anything like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u13	My way and my thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u14	I just thought, thank you for letting me go straight, but okay. Well, I'd like to thank you for your help. I am not a lawyer, so I would like to answer some of these questions to my colleague, through you, to explain some of these things and motives. First, in all disputes before the financial arbiter, if one of the two parties is dissatisfied with the outcome, then he can turn to the court. This applies to all cases that are still being dealt with there. In other words, basically, when we look at it with this view, basically, when you look at the statistics, whenever the client, the consumer wins, the institution always turns to the court, or almost always, to drain all the possibilities that our legal order allows it. While if it's the other way around and the institution wins, the citizen doesn't usually go to court after that. This means that, unfortunately, if the consumer wins, he will inevitably end up in court. This means that this optics would actually make no sense of the financial arbiter and would have no added value, because, as you yourself said, through the President, according to the OSŘ, the dispute begins again and the consumer is himself before the court, he is sued and is not represented by a financial arbiter. By the way, I've been thinking about this with my colleagues and we have another number here - I don't have it loaded here - but we have an OSŘ amendment here, which would make it possible that when the dispute comes to court, at least the financial arbiter will learn about it, because today's practice, when we talk about the legal perspective, is such that if the consumer wins, the institution will appeal and goes to court, the financial arbiter may not be informed, starts again from the beginning in court, and there is a consumer himself who, of course, is much worse defending the position of the financial arbitr. So at least this change, which I will read in the next opposition window, which basically, our debate, has exposed it and on which is the positive position of this government, solves at least the fact that the financial arbiter in general, the out-of-court authority, will be informed that there is a trial. In other words, in fact, all these cases - this is not just about this extension - will end and end up in court. I even came up with the last parliamentary term with a revolutionary idea - with which my colleague here, as a lawyer, would have driven me, that it was unconstitutional - that the decision before the out-of-court authorities would then be immeasurable, meritorarily, so that it would have added value here, because really afterwards - you said it here in those cases where I and the petitioners are expanding it, but that is true in practice. The moment this guy ends up in court, the lawsuit begins again, including the evidence. It's from the very beginning. That means that at this point, the consumer - and as I've already said here - the added value of the financial arbiter, when I look at it with this point of view, is actually zero, because whenever he wins, he's gonna end up in court anyway, and that's where he's gonna have to hire a lawyer, an attorney, and he's gonna end up where he could theoretically start. That's the first point. Second point. Yes, I know the activities and activities of the čap Ombudsman, but we're talking about an out-of-court authority. And again, I appreciate the analysis of my colleague, but we could use this optics in other cases that are being dealt with by the financial arbiter today, so they could actually be dealt with by the ombudsman of individual banks, because even individual banks have their ombudsman. But a financial arbiter, like all the other out-of-court bodies that solve ADR disputes, it's built on the principle of some independence and unbiasedness, and that's the added value. I do not like the speed of driving, as you, my colleague, through Madam President, because as far as I know, there is even a limit of 30 days, in exceptional cases 60 days. Let me just remind you that there were a number of cases involving investment life insurance and so on, but it also has to do with the fact that the office is underfunded. We have honestly written plus 24 million there, but I will remind you that in the draft budget for this year there is a decrease of 27 percent, a fall in the budget of this out-of-court body, and you know - as well as by the way the out-of-court body of the ER and the ČTU - and you know that in the context of the consistency of the consumer protection debate, I have proposed amendments to the budget for 2022 that will return ČTU funds, ERÚ, and I merely commented on this in the financial arbitrary. As far as non-life insurance is concerned, I said there is an easy way out of it, if there is such a problem, with the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u15	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep your voice down so you have a better room for your performance. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u16	Then I won't be long. There it can be healed by proposing an amendment that might release this part. I'd just like to sum up the issue that Karel Haas here described. As I say, if we generalize it, it would de facto call into question the activities of the out-of-court authorities in general, because in all these cases, finally, when they win, they basically end up in court, and they're alone, without professional security, so at that point, the amendment we're coming up with doesn't actually solve anything new. He's actually just extending it to three more areas. If we've been talking about this length here - I agree with you, Mr. colleague - I'll remind you again that in the last 14 days we've expanded the areas that deal with the financial arbiter in two places anyway, and none of you have got off here, that the financial arbiter is taking quite a while to decide. We voted here to deal with the issue of the DCC and the Pan-European Fund, and I read here yesterday the legislative technical change that extends it to the letters, the other things, and we voted, and there was no criticism in relation to the length of the discussion. So I agree with you that it's taking a long time and that it doesn't do the exact effect of this out-of-court settlement. But that was also true for yesterday's vote and for the previous vote, but because they were government proposals, no one said so. [[20.00 hours]] As much as in brief, and once again, I thank you for this substantive and professional debate. I really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u17	Thank you, too. There is now room for the rapporteur's final word, but she is not interested, and Minister Kupka has applied with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u18	I will allow myself to reopen the debate with my speeches in order to respond to some of Patrik Nacher's statements, because they deserve to set the record straight and disprove some widespread lies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u19	Well, of course, the Minister's speech is opening up the debate. But is there any interest in another application for this reopened debate? Yes, I see Mr. Haas' login. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u20	First of all, thank you very much for reopening the debate, because I would no longer be able to sign up for it after the final words. But I don't think I'm gonna make it past the actual time. Patrik Nacher, through you, Madam President, has made four arguments. The possibility of turning to court today. Well, that's the same thing, of course, but the difference is in the current material. Today, the financial arbiter does not discuss any of the disputes in which the basis for the decision would be an expert opinion, that is the difference. That means I don't have exact statistics here, because you're not gonna find this in the financial arbiter's annual reports. Today, the minimum consumers go to administrative justice after the decision of the financial arbiter. Those are the units of cases that - trust me from the practice - they're units of percent. They do not go there because on the legal issue of the assessment of the underlying contract, consumer credit contract, insurance contract and so on, in the very assessment of the contract by financial arbitrary offices - and financial arbitrary lawyers, I do not blame anything - but what will mean the transfer of the non-life insurance dispute, where the basis is expert opinion, so if he has it processed only and only the office of the financial arbitrary, then every lawyer who is in court will immediately begin to give a counter-confidence opinion, so it will start a war of expert opinions, which will end in administrative justice. Otherwise, he can't quit, because no one but the court is gonna break those expert opinions. And the court, I would point out, is not bound in administrative justice by the decision of the administrative authority against which the proposal in administrative justice is directed. That means the administrative court is reconsidering the whole thing from the start, so that's why. I do not doubt that consumers can already turn to the administrative justice system after the decision to find a financial arbitrary. They can, but they have no reason to do so, because in the very assessment of the content of the contract, which today is the absolutely dominant agenda of the financial arbiter, they have no reason to turn to the administrative justice system. If we put that word in quotes, the non-life insurance agenda, that means an agenda that stands at 99 percent on expert expertise, then we're gonna drive these people into the administrative justice system. That's the first thing. The second thing - and I must say that very correctly. Patrik Nacher, through the President, said that perhaps he would not do so either, but that he was already wondering that the decision of an institution of an alternative solution to a dispute should be unreviewable by the court - so please, no one in this House can do so, I believe that 200 votes would be against such unconstitutional nonsense. No, I believe my colleague Patrik Nacher's head was just chasing it and voting against it. [[Laughter and applause in the right side of the Chamber.]] Two hundred would have to be against it. Third reason. My colleague Patrik Nacher said that the alternative dispute resolution institutions, certified, emphasize certified by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, are not unbiased, are not impartial and are somehow bound to their founders. Please, I believe that, in this regard, the European Union already in 2013, when - before that, because the preparation of the ADR Directive took place for several years - so reasonably, in this matter, it made it very clear in the directive that one of the two ways is to set up ADR institutions as well as non-state founders, typically the providers of those services that fall within the ADR system. And you know why? Because there is one magic word that should work in all areas of the Czech, not just the financial market, but simply all areas of the Czech economy that fall within the ADR system. There is such a word as self-regulation. And self-regulation means - or synonymous with self-cultivation - that perhaps we all want the individual components of the Czech economy that can generate - legitimately, no one is flawless - disputes with consumers, so they should self-cultivate. And this, this unbiasedness, I can document with specific numbers, because if you dig into the annual reports, you can trace it. While the success of consumers in front of the financial arbiter is slightly below 60 per cent in the long run or oscillates around 60 per cent, that is, in 60 per cent of those cases, the financial arbiter will achieve some friendly solution with which both the contested institution and the consumer agree - I stress, about 60 per cent, rather a little less, I can speak again from the annual reports and from the hard data of the office of the Ombudsman of the Czech Insurance Association. Do you know how successful consumers have against insurance companies before them according to Patrik Nacher, not the impartial Ombudsman of the Czech Insurance Association? They have a 75 percent success rate. Is that the bias, or is that the impartiality? [[An unintelligible remark from the diaper.]] Well, in the protocol, it's gonna be in a minute, the word "unbiased" and "unbiased," which is why I'm responding to it. So the fact that financial institutions, by establishing and certifying a non-state institution in the ADR system, certainly does not mean that consumers lose there, that the providers of services would be unfair. On the contrary, the ČAP Ombudsman demonstrates with three employees that consumers have a 75% success rate on hard data compared to less than 60% success rate on financial arbitrary. And the last mention, because my colleague Patrik Nacher, through Madam President, also mentioned this - the budget. I beg you, I - and this is a political argument, but I hope that factual - that we are going to swell state institutions from the point of view of the number of employees, that is, from the current 55 or 57, now I didn't take that basis, we're going to make a 120 increase, that is, by 35 percent, that we're going to inflate the chapter or sub-chapter of the state budget by 34 percent, the cost increase is about a percentage different from the increase in the number of employees - but I'm going to take the costs only those that are in the explanatory report, and the realistic ones are bigger - so I can't really, as a right-wing MP, because I don't think the world and consumer protection will be saved by smacking state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u21	Well, thank you, too, and now there is one factual remark from Mr Králíček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u22	Thank you. Well, I'd like to ask Minister Kupka, where are the lies he was talking about? I understand that you are 108, that you will find at every point one expert who rejects us, that you will cover it all up for us. But why the insults and the dehonestics? You're losing your glanc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u23	Now with priority rights, Minister Kupka. Or de facto? That's up to you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u24	Putting room in a duel of arguments means losing the glanc? I really do not understand this, my colleague, through Madam President. The fact that there has been a clear disprovement of what Mr Patrik Nacher has said is evident. And that it may be perceived in this regard as false or inaccurate, I'm sorry, but that is not an expression of insult. We'd have to really move around in completely different words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u25	Now, Mr Nacher. Just please specify: factual or general? Okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u26	I don't know. I always feel like it's going to start well, and then you have to mess it up. [[Laughs in the right side of the meeting room.]] Because the Minister can only open the debate with one word that he will say, "Good evening, and that opens the debate." And he actually opened this place up by saying that some lies would be refuted. That's what he said. The Minister of Transport said that he was opening the debate by saying that Karel Haas would perform to refute some lies. There was no rebuttal, no lie. We just have a different opinion about it. [[20.10 hours]] I didn't even say they weren't impartial and unbiased. I said, from the definition of the matter to me, the financial arbiter and the out-of-court authorities are independent and impartial. I didn't comment on whether they were an impartial and independent ombudian of the CAP or the ombudsmen of individual banks, I wouldn't dare. I really took care of it, so I know exactly what I said. I have commented on the independence, impartiality of the out-of-court authorities. I didn't comment on independence, so I didn't say it, so something was disproved that I didn't say. And we're free to go to the log. I was just making a note on this one, and I really did it very carefully, so there was no lie. The fact that those cases that start with an out-of-court body end up in a vast majority in court at the moment when the consumer wins and the institution wants to take advantage of all the legal options allowed by the Czech rule of law is true. That's what you ask all the out-of-court authorities, financial arbiter, CTU, ERU, that's what it is, so they're gonna end up in court anyway. That's right, and there's no lie about it. Yeah, there's no expert opinion, but that's not what I was talking about either, so I don't know what the perverted lie was. So there was no lie from me. I'm sorry, 'cause I thought it was going to be on the material level, and it opened up again with a guy lying around. Can you tell me, Mr. Secretary, and I don't have to address you through any of the things that a person would get out of it? That's just the subject of consumer protection. The financial arbiter, like any other body, is an independent neutral body for me. Not everything works well, but I can imagine that a person may be lying if he lobbied here for some private stuff, private interests, but that's not what's going on in this case. And I didn't notice a single perverted lie. So I'm really sorry about this, because it went from the material plane to this. You could have opened it up a good day, Mr. Haas would have stepped out and it could have all ended. This is how it is here in the wind that one Member must refute the lies of another Member, which is not the case. And I can see behind this that Mr Haas' head was nodding, through Madam President, that he did not refute any of my lies because I did not have any. Thank you. Or I didn't share any.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-021-046.u27	Therefore, no one is in the debate now, so I am ending the debate. Because the final word, at least the translator, has already been heard, but I'm still asking if he wants to use the final word? No, neither does the rapporteur. There was a motion to reject, that is, a proposal that we must vote on. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I've logged the check-out request, so I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your cards. Once the number of people present is settled, we will vote on a motion to reject this law. The number of entries already appears to be stable, so I am opening the vote on the motion tabled to reject this amendment of the law. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 71, 144 were registered, for 79, against 65, and the proposal was accepted, and we have hereby rejected this proposal. That is why I am ending the discussion of this point. Now I'm opening up a point that is
