ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u1	111. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, or to the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interpelations first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would also like to point out to all Members of the Government that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will immediately begin. And before I invite the speakers, I will introduce you to my apologies: On 3 and 4 March, the President of the KDU-ČSL club Marek Výborný, then Mrs Lenka Dražilová apologises from today's meeting from 14.30 to 17, further apologizes Mrs Renáta Zajíčková between 15.45 and 17 for working reasons, and finally President Tomio Okamura from 14.30 to the end of today's meeting for health reasons and Mr František Petrtýl today between 14.30 and 18 for working reasons. That would be an apology. And now I give the floor to Mr Jaroslav Bašta, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala. Mr Radek Rozvoral will then be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u2	Dear Prime Minister, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms 17 guarantees freedom of expression. However, the Supreme Attorney General Igor Stříž published an opinion on the website of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, and I quote: "If anyone publicly, including demonstrations, Internet space or social networks, would agree with the attacks of the Russian Federation on Ukraine, accept or support them, or in this connection express support or praise the prominent representatives of the Russian Federation, he could also face criminal liability for crimes under Section 365 of the Criminal Code or under Section 405 of the Criminal Code under certain conditions." I don't want to question the focus of this statement for me, I understand it, but it's his rubber formulation that bothers me. The next may be: "Who publicly criticizes the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union or in NATO, or the activities of the European Union or NATO, including demonstrations, the space of the Internet or social networks, could commit prejudice under certain conditions." As a memorial, this reminds me of legal provision No. 99/1969, the so-called 1969 Pendreka Act, used to chase the citizens of Czechoslovakia for totalitarianism. I quote: "The one who disrupts the socialist social order by his action" - we can now place the words of liberal democracy here - "and thus loses the confidence needed to hold the present... [[Your time.]] ... yourfunctions. [[Your time is up.]] Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u3	Thank you. And now I give the floor to Prime Minister Petr Fial. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u4	Thank you. Dear Member, I don't actually have the question in your speech because you've exhausted the time limit, but I think I have an idea what you're going to ask. Maybe I'll start by comparing it to last time. Of course, you know that every analogy is limping, and that was the time when there was no free media, when man had neither room nor freedom to express. You suffered personally for wanting to express yourself freely. I could express my involvement in the issue of samizdat, but that is something completely incomparable with today. Today you can express yourself, you can give me any opinion here in the Chamber of Deputies, citizens can say any opinion, and they can certainly criticize the European Union, the North Atlantic Alliance, and of course this is happening. So this comparison or this analogy, I really wouldn't consider it appropriate and let's be careful with these things. What is important here is that we are facing an extraordinary situation, and that is Russia's aggression on Ukraine. It's something extremely serious. I will just mention the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which was unanimous and which categorically condemns the barbarian, inexcusable and unprovoked aggression of Russia against Ukraine, which runs counter to the fundamental standards of international law and the principles of mutual relations between civilised nations and which threatens both the lives of innocent people and the very foundations of security architecture in Europe. It expresses its clear opposition to the lying and aggressive rhetoric of the political leadership of the Russian Federation, in particular its President Vladimir Vladimirovič Putin, who is to justify the military attack against Ukraine and which aims to challenge its independence and the right to its independent existence. I very much appreciate this clear position of the Chamber of Deputies, it is important, and I think that for this reason too, or even with this view, it is necessary to look at the words of the Attorney General. In his statement, as I understand it, he undoubtedly did not mean any censorship or restriction of the word, and certainly not every expression of the Ukrainian conflict is based on the actual nature of the crime. Everyone has the right to express themselves and to say their views, as they recognise it as appropriate, but also free words must have their limits in every free society, and societies and in the democratic world set those limits. And I think that even in this context, or this way, the words of the Attorney General Igor Stříž need to be perceived. He's clearly saying "free speech" in his statement. Freedom of expression is enshrined in the constitutionally legal way in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 17 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Everyone has the right to express their views in a way that he considers appropriate, but also freedom of expression has its limits in a democratic rule of law. And then there's the quote that you mentioned, with the fact that the Attorney General is appealing to all persons not to resort to public speeches at this difficult time, which would go beyond the established constitutional and legal restrictions. That's what he's talking about. So I see the state's attorney's point of view, a kind of warning, rather than any attempt at censorship or threats. In this situation that we are facing, when one state attacked the other militarily for no reason, this is a negotiation that - as the Chamber of Deputies has clearly said - cannot simply be approved and supported. Everyone should therefore consider the impact of his expression on demonstrations, on the Internet, on social networks. [[14.40 hours]] Of course, the means of criminal law are a variant of the ultima ratio, i.e. in the case of verbal crimes only in extremely serious acts that go beyond the limits of freedom of expression, can be legally intervened. But what the Attorney General said, I see as an appeal at this difficult time, not a restriction on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u5	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm gonna point out two things. As far as freedom of speech is concerned, freedom of expression cannot be heard in the legal area by wordings that are unclear. And in this case, we're facing two. For one thing, it is the opinion of the Supreme Attorney, which I quoted, and then the concept of so-called prejudiced hatred, supported by the Ministry of the Interior, which has no support in criminal law. The combination of these two things can be abused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u7	Thank you. Are you interested in a reaction, Mr. Chairman? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u8	I will return again to the statement of Mr. Attorney General Igor Stříž, which you are asking about and which I had printed to see exactly what the Attorney General said. There's the confusion or the uncertainty isn't really there. In fact, he is expressing that if someone publicly expressed their consent to the attacks of the Russian Federation on Ukraine, accepted or supported, or in this context expressed support or praised the prominent representatives of the Russian Federation - you quoted this here, he could, under certain conditions, also face criminal liability for the criminal offence of a criminal offence under Section 365 of the Criminal Code, or for the crime of denial, questioning, approving or justifying genocide under Section 405 of the Penal Code, or Mr. Attorney General in his appeal - and let us really see it as a call or appeal to the public - pointing out that we have defined crimes very specific and in specific paragraphs, to which the Supreme Prosecutor referred, to which someone might have violated, if he had approved it or justified it in any significant way in the case of Russian aggression. Again, it's a challenge, it's an appeal, we're in an emergency situation, so the Attorney General points out that. I am not afraid that, in any way, freedom of speech should be violated by this, and I can certainly say for the government that we are fully aware of the importance of freedom of speech, and I would be the first to respond if citizens' freedom of expression were violated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u9	Thank you. Mr Radek Rozvoral will now speak with the next interview, which was drawn in second place. Mr Vladimír Zlínský will then be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, you quote, among other things, in the Government's programming statement: "We want a state that belongs to a democratic Europe that knows that the values of freedom and democracy must be actively promoted and defended. We are a coalition government that represents a large group of people thanks to the presence of five parties. We want to be a government defending the interests of all citizens of the Czech Republic." And so I ask why, in the above-mentioned programme statement of the Government, there is at least little mention of the law on a general referendum when it is requested by at least half a million citizens of the Czech Republic who voted for the SPD movement to enforce the law on a general referendum as a priority when you say in the programme statement that you want to defend the interests of all citizens of the Czech Republic. We are already one of the few countries in Europe that does not have this law, even though it is mentioned by the Constitution of the Czech Republic in Art. Article 2 (1) (a) 2, where it is said that constitutional law can determine when the people exercise state power directly. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u11	Thank you. Now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u12	Dear Member, thank you for the question, for reminding the Government's programming statement. It is so that this government, the parties from which it is composed, has promised people one basic thing, and that is change, change in access to governance, change in communication with the public, predictability and dialogue instead of chaos and unilateral decisions. And that's what we've been trying to do since the first day the voters gave us confidence. And that is why, in preparing our government's programming statement, we have involved employers' representatives, trade unions, tripartite, as well as all relevant associations, trade unions and other key interest groups dealing with relevant matters. We asked for their opinion, heard their proposals, and many of them appeared in the government's programming statement. The government's programming statement thus reflects, of course, the views of the political parties that form the government. It is logical, and no government would have done it differently, but we have also taken into account the public's views, and the professional public, and I think it has improved the government's programming statement, which is perceived by the public as quite favorably and consensually. Of course, I understand that everyone can miss something and reside there, especially from opposition political parties. That's how it is, and I don't see it bad. As far as the specific question is concerned, i.e. the referendum, it should be recalled that none of the political parties involved in the creation of the Government's programming declaration would call for the referendum as you characterize it, i.e. general, to be part of the Government's programming statement, and therefore, logically, it does not contain that requirement. For the coalition I led in the election, I can say that we didn't promise the voters that we would do something like this. I am personally pleased because I am not convinced by the technical or political nature that a general referendum and too broad elements of direct democracy are to be part of our constitutional order. I am convinced that we are parliamentary democracies, that this is a good thing and, together with a number of other countries that are based on a similar principle and a similar logic of the constitutional system, we do not have a general referendum in which citizens, for example, would decide on strategic security issues, so we do not have a general referendum secured in the Constitution, which does not diminish the quality of democracy, which I would like to stress. There is no theory that direct democracy is better than parliamentary democracy, a representative democracy that one is more democratic and the other is less democratic. You can't look at it that way. We have quite a functional referendum at local level, which corresponds to the original intention of direct democracy, where people who make up some kind of polis, a small community, are clear, understandable, but we do not have the element at national level where we replace it with representative democracy, which is a full-fledged proven and basically more frequent form of democratic governance of society than it is in the referendum. Moreover, the experience of referendums and newly established referenda institutes is not entirely positive in many countries. Just look at the results of the referendums and their relevance in neighbouring Slovakia, where something similar to what you are proposing - although I am sorry, I do not know exactly the details of your proposal - they have introduced something similar and these results are not. [[14.50 hours]] It is not even possible to throw away examples from Switzerland, because Switzerland is a separate, absolutely specific type of political system, which does not actually have equivalents elsewhere among other democratic political systems. So even this example can't be used here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u13	Thank you. Now, with interest in the supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u14	Thank you, Prime Minister. Of course, you did not please me very much, although the ODS is well known and you say this frankly that you do not support the general referendum. But the five-calice is also part of the pirát, who cooperated during the last parliamentary term in the law on the general referendum. So I would have an additional question as to whether there was at least a debate on this law when the programming declaration was drawn up or not at all considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u15	Thank you, so there's room for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u16	Now I don't know exactly what to tell you, because if I answer the truth, you won't believe me. I can't completely rule out that someone didn't say it, I really don't know in detail, but I can assure you that it wasn't a topic. I think that each of our political parties - and the government forms a coalition of five political parties - each of our political parties, of course, had to make a good statement, compromise and respect the basic parameters or basic setting of coalition partners. So it wasn't a strong topic in the government's programming statement. We are not convinced as a government that it is on the agenda of the day for the enforcement of the general referendum. We think that there are no conditions for this either in our parliamentary system, because the signals from the Senate are, and I think they have been, in the long run, clear that there is also no majority support. So we're looking at it this pragmatically. Yes, I don't deny it, in our coalition - and everyone has to speak for themselves - there are parties who could imagine it more and would be more willing to talk about the parameters of a general referendum. I really don't rule it out, and I'm not confirming it, because I don't know at the moment. There are parties that have a strong view, such as the Civil Democratic Party, which I represent and for which I can truly speak, that it is good to rely on the institutes of representative democracy, which are very strong and reliable, and that we do not want to change our constitutional system in the direction that we would introduce general referendums and these strong elements of direct democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u17	Thank you. Before I invite another speaker, I'll introduce you to my excuses. One Member, Aleš Juchelka, between 14.30 and 18.00, apologizes to Mrs Andrea Babišová until the end of the sitting day from 14.30 for health reasons, and finally Mr Kašník, from the afternoon hearing until the end of the sitting day for health reasons. Mr Vladimír Zlínský is next and Mr Andrej Babiš will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u18	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, given the potential risks of nuclear conflict in our territory or in our immediate vicinity, could you tell the citizens of the Czech Republic how many percent of the population are equipped with functional anti-atomic shelters, with sufficient supplies of food, drinking, beds, functional waste and toilets and filter-ventilation facilities for at least a few days? I would also like to know how millions of personal dosimeters, protective anti-radiation suits and masks will be distributed, as well as hundreds of decontamination devices distributed across the territory of the Republic, including trained personnel, including paramedics. How will citizens be informed about the radiation situation in their surroundings in the event of a very likely blackout? If these formalities are not available to me for incomprehensible reasons, I ask how you intend to ensure them as soon as possible. I also ask your recommendation on how citizens who are no longer in the shelter will be taken care of, and what will be the selection key for staying in the shelter. I wonder how individual regional authorities and regional rescue firefighters are materially and professionally prepared to face these challenges. Thank you for your specific answers on behalf of many citizens who are addressing me on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u19	Thank you. Now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u20	Dear Member, although I will partially answer your question on some specific matters, I would first of all like to say that there is no cause for concern, and let us not frighten the citizens here that there is a risk of radiation and we will have to hide somewhere in the shelter and something similar. The State Office for Nuclear Safety has repeatedly assured citizens and the public that radiation activity on our territory is common, there are no deviations from normal values, not even from nuclear power plants in the territory of Ukraine, nor anything similar. It really doesn't make sense at this point to scare citizens and talk about hiding in a shelter or getting ready for something that really doesn't happen at this point is extremely unlikely, if not excluded. And once again, the assurance of the State Nuclear Safety Authority that radiation activity on our territory is common. With regard to the threat he has expressed - she is not a threat, Vladimír Putin said he activated those elements that could lead to the use of nuclear weapons - a statement that is absolutely unacceptable, insane and extremely dangerous, but is part of a psychological war. As we know, nuclear weapons are weapons of intimidation, they are also used in the psychological struggle to deter the opponent. Vladimír Putin also uses it to scare the citizens of democratic countries and to panic here, but the use of nuclear weapons itself is extremely unlikely. So let's keep our heads, our senses, don't scare each other. The Czech Republic is safe and safe. We are part of the North Atlantic Alliance, which is ready to defend itself. With regard to the specific questions you have asked, there has been a change in the weapons used over recent decades, which also changes the way they are protected from them. Instead of mass shelters, they go to an improvised protection system, so-called protection of existing buildings. This is a system that is effective with its simplicity and improvised covers can be built in a wide range, actually in most buildings. As far as the classic covers are concerned, according to firefighters, there are about 6,000 of them in our territory. Most of them are in the territory of the City of Prague, where, of course, a metro can serve as a form of shelter, which has a large capacity. But there are other places you know, like the Strahov Tunnel and others. The total capacity of shelters in the Czech Republic is around a quarter of a million citizens. So much like this. If you want more details, protective bunkers are registered on their website by firefighters, and the information on this page is quite large. But what is probably the most important part of my message, I will repeat once again: there is no reason to scare people, there is no increased danger that anyone might be exposed to, there are no changes in radiation activity in our territory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u21	Thank you. Are you interested in an additional question? Please put her down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u22	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I certainly did not want to disturb our citizens, on the contrary. I wanted to calm them down, and I wanted to point out that this issue has been underestimated for a long time. If nuclear weapons exist and if we support the production of electricity through nuclear power plants, then we must in some way be prepared for these situations also in terms of the education and teaching of the population, pupils and students. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u23	Yes, there's still an interest in the reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u24	I've been briefing some of the data that I think is good for the public to know about your question. This means that we have a system of shelters and we have at least some solutions in case of serious problems that you have indicated or mentioned here. But I actually agree with the one thing that you said, and here I consider it important that we really need to inform children and young people in schools about how to behave in crisis situations, what to do, who to turn to, what to follow - I think that is very rational. The debate is going on, we will be here - and it is also in our government's programming statement - to modify the framework education programmes, so let's see if there are any shortcomings, and we can do this about the information that children are getting in some form anyway, but we can enrich this information and improve education in this direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u25	Thank you and now Mr. Andrej Babiš is next in line. Mr Martin Kukla will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u26	Prime Minister, in the preamble government's programming statement, the second sentence: "Our government will have to deal very quickly with a number of negative phenomena coming from the outside, but they are also a significant consequence of a number of previous decisions. This is a high inflation, a covid-19 epidemic, and the consequences of the energy crisis." You didn't have to deal with Covid. You say change. The change is that you just don't want to give people money! But that's their money, the money they paid for. You dropped 62 billion at first, macroprediction on January 20, 2022. You've got total revenue cut! And I'm asking you again, I'm asking you-- you're asking what the question is, why don't you want to give people the money? 62 billion, give 21 billion to pensioners, 19 billion you will forgive renewable resources to all, companies, citizens, and six months of VAT on heat, electricity and gas. So I'm asking you, why don't you do it? And what's happening now? Gas and diesel are the most expensive in history in the Czech Republic after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. How much gas, diesel? 40 kroner liters! How much in Poland? Thirty-one. What difference does it make? Thirty percent. Do you know, Prime Minister, how much money is collected on diesel, petrol and fuel per year? Eighty billion excise duties, twenty billion VAT! Tens of billions more will come out of this. That means macroprediction in March will give you money again! So I'm asking you - I know you're overvoted, that budget - make a new budget, this money will be given to you people. The ones who buy the overpriced gas. So I'm asking, why don't you want to give it back to them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u27	Thank you, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u28	Thank you. Well, Mr President, your concern for money for people and the budget is surprising to me. When you were Prime Minister, it didn't look too good with the budget. And if you cared about the impact it would have on people, you probably wouldn't have managed so irresponsiblely that your government would have had a budget deficit of CZK 420 billion last year. And you wouldn't even suggest a budget deficit of CZK 377 billion this year at the time of inflation and all the problems we face. The consequences of budgetary policy are felt by citizens. They feel them on their daily lives, they feel them in their wallets, they feel them on the price that is here. And that's just... or they also feel that there is inflation around 10 percent, which is all related to the mismanagement that you have shown here. When you joined the government eight years ago, you liked to brag about a graph where you showed who indebted this country the most, what the debt looks like. And you're not using that graph anymore, and now you're not pulling it out. I'll tell you why you're not using it because your government would stand out in the first place in this country's debt. And even here, sitting next to you, Ex-minister Schillerová, who has increased the country's debt - but to be fair, not Madam Secretary, your government - has increased the country's debt by 50 percent from 1.6 billion to 2.4 billion crowns. And that's what the citizens feel. It's not just that the money goes somewhere and goes into the budget. You have to borrow and indebt citizens for that debt, you are in debt to future generations, you are increasing inflation. You devalue people's savings. These are the effects of your government's management. So we've redesigned the draft state budget, we don't want to be in the budget provisional anymore, so we want to approve as quickly as possible the revised budget that, on the other hand, has CZK 280 billion less than your deficit, which is CZK 96 billion less. And that's important. But, for what it's worth, in this adjusted budget, citizens get to the money they need. We don't take anything from anyone, we don't cut anything, we invest it. You couldn't do that to this extent despite much higher debt. All viable road constructions, motorways, railroads will have guaranteed funding. Investment over CZK 200 billion, well, people will see and know, i.e. 10 percent of the budget. Compared to 2021, investments will even be 15 billion higher. And the money to the people? Most in the budget we add CZK 21 billion to seniors' pensions. Since June, the government will increase the pension on average for each senior by CZK 1,000! During the whole year, seniors will grow their pensions the fastest in the history of the independent Czech Republic. That's reality, that's money that goes straight to people. At the same time, we added $5 billion to compensate entrepreneurs who have suffered damage due to covideo restrictions, $3 billion to housing for those who are most affected by the energy crisis, that is also money that goes to people. And I repeat once again: we have saved on the activities of the state, on the operation of the state and its ministries and authorities, which you have never done. So we don't owe as much of the future and we don't owe as many people and we don't increase inflation, and yet we put these funds in the budget like I said here. And how much did your government have in the budget for these matters when I look at that budget with a much higher deficit? To increase pensions of 0 Czech crowns. To compensate entrepreneurs 0 CZK of Czech. To address the energy crisis 0 Czech crowns. That was the budget you submitted with a deficit of CZK 377 billion. We have a deficit of almost 100 billion lower, and we have all this money in the budget, and people are gonna get it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u29	Thank you. And I see an interest in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u30	Prime Minister, now you've made me wonder if I'm speaking to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and if you live in this state. You can't be serious. Basically what you said here: pensions - yes, 21 billion by law. By law, you have to give it to them, just as we've raised 6 percent to paramedics, a payment decree. So I really don't know what you're talking about, and I think it's awfully incorrect. I'm not saying it's Fialův's price - you said it's Babišův's price - you have double-digit inflation next month. I say it's Fialův's poverty. You are the only government in the European Union that has given nothing to people. Jurečka? For 21,000 people, 11 pages of form? Well, that's funny. You didn't give them anything. And again, I'm asking you to return the money to them. You've got 100 billion cotton wool in there. It fell into your lap 62. Now you get tens for fuel. Do something for the people. [[Your time.]] And don't tell stories around here, it's not normal... [[Your time.]] ... what you're talking about. It doesn't have a head or a heel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u31	I'm sure there's an interest in the reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u32	I don't know about you as an economist, I like numbers as a social scientist. So I'm telling you the numbers and the facts. And you're like, "Well, that's not true, that's not real. But the numbers are reality. Your government prepared for an extraordinary increase in pensions of 0 Czech crowns, to compensate entrepreneurs of 0 Czech crowns, to solve the economic crisis of 0 Czech crowns. So let everyone look into your draft budget, look into our draft budget, compare the figures and see how it is and who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth that you've prepared a budget of 377 billion deficits and we've prepared a budget of 280 deficits, that's just the truth. And that's how we fight inflation. That's it, that's the facts, the numbers, the dates. Anyone can check them, anybody can see how they are. Anyone can look at which Prime Minister is telling the truth and who may be making it up. And when it comes to the money, you say, "Give it to the people, give it to the people." We give it to people, and they get it, too, unlike what you've prepared. Valorisation of pensions: in our draft budget of CZK 21 billion, the money is prepared for this. Yes, it's legal valorisation, but you didn't have the money there, we have it there. Housing contribution due to rising energy prices - plus 3 billion. Well, that's a nice way to tell you guys, we're gonna do something about the energy, we're gonna give people something. You gave them nothing, we put $3 billion in there. Compensating businessmen for covid. How much did you have in there? How much did former Minister Havlíček set up there? Zero. Zero! We put in 5 billion crowns. And that's how it is with everything. So all you have to do is get your numbers straight, I recommend it to everyone, and you'll see who's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u33	Thank you. And before there's another Member's counter, I'll make an apology. Today, until the end of the meeting day from 14:30, Vice-President Skopeček apologizes. And please, Mr Martin Kukla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u34	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question about the Government's programming statement and I would like to ask specifically the number of the budgetary determination of the tax. I quote from the programme statement: "We will maintain the existing finances of municipalities and change the budgetary determination of regional tax based on the agreement of the Association of Regions and increase the overall allocation." I'd like to ask about the raise. How much are these regions going to increase? Because when we look at history, Andrej Babiš's government has increased since 1. 1. 2021 budgetary determination of tax from 8,92 to 9,78. And I'm going to use the time space that I have, and as far as the specific situation with Sberbank is concerned. I would like to ask if the government of Petr Fiala is wondering whether it will help citizens and municipalities with the Sberbank problem and with outstanding funds beyond the insured deposit, regarding individuals and ammunition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u35	Thank you, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u36	I got two questions on two different topics. I admit that we are in a difficult situation and critical. Of course, people are asking about the deposits in Sberbank and the consequences of termination. Of course, you need to calm down all the little savers, there's legal insurance, the protection. They will receive all deposits up to CZK 2.5 million. That's what it is, and nobody has to worry about it here. Of course, for higher amounts and for some accounts of municipalities or regions, the situation is much more complicated and there is no simple answer I can give now. Yes, the state is trying to deal with the situation here, and we're going to try to find a good way where it's gonna take us to help. But don't let the citizens worry. No matter what happened to this bank or will happen, the insurance will automatically be paid in full to the amount I mentioned. With regard to the budgetary determination of taxes and our programming statements, we are, of course, talking about adjusting the RUD in the case of regions and increasing the overall allocation, but also in the programme statement, we have that we will maintain the existing funding of municipalities. So it cannot be interpreted as being at the expense of someone else, that the basic parameters will be redistributed 64.38 % for the state, 25.84 % for the municipalities and 9.97 % for the regions. You mentioned it here, the last number, with the fact that it has recently been increased in connection with certain tax adjustments. What we are dealing with in the programming statement and what we are dealing with in cooperation with the Regional Association is that, as money is redistributed between regions according to certain parameters, it seems that these parameters do not correspond to the population - even if they do not, the individual regions, but there is no problem - but the functions, equipment, infrastructure and what the individual regions actually manage what they are engaged in. You just have to look at the differences between regions with regard to medical facilities - the difference between regions where there is a state faculty hospital and where there are regional facilities and so on, there are a number of differences. The original setting of the distribution of these means is sometimes, now don't hold me at the word, but I mean from the 1990s, since then there hasn't actually been any significant modification in these parameters. And many regions say - for example, the region from which I am elected, South Moravian - we today have the lowest share per capita. And that just doesn't match the way it should be, and let's talk about the change. The debate is ongoing, it must be a debate within the Association of Regions, because the regions have to agree on those parameters. And we say it's like a state, and I think it's so right if you agree on it, so it can't be that someone gets married again and joins the other, you would never agree on it, but just when you agree on new rules, there's just going to be a total amount up there so that no one, at the beginning of the arrangement, gets lost. That is the essence of what is in the programming statement, and the essence of what is happening. There's no other way. [[15.20 hours]] And I say, if there's no agreement and some consensus between regional representatives, that's actually not going to be quite right, because then we're going to get back into a situation that doesn't suit parts of those regions. And we, to unblock it, say: there must be an initial increase and then the system can be set more fairly. But I'm sure it won't be at the expense of the municipalities or the changes to the basic parameters, which would undoubtedly not be good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u37	Thank you. I see an interest in the supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. But if we have a certain amount of money and a certain percentage of money and we divide it between regions, then it always has to happen that someone gets married and joins someone. I asked you, when you have a program statement that you're going to increase, I'd like to know the specific number, how much percent is going to increase, so that no money or a direct number for the regions will be collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u39	Thank you. The Prime Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u40	I'm convinced I explained it. How much will be added will depend on how the parameters are set and how we will see what it does when it divides between individual regions. You can't say that in advance, and it would be completely irresponsible. It depends on what will be counted between the parameters of the individual regions, how to evaluate the extent of the road network, how to evaluate the need for health care facilities and the things that play a role for the region and which affect the fact that the region does not have the resources per capita, which correspond to its needs and which would correspond to today's reality, but rather to some redistribution from the 1990s. It is not so special, what is in the process of redistributing between regions, we know it from other areas of our lives, such as coefficients that take into account the fields of higher education, also have some background settings, and the debate on how to adjust them to meet current needs is extremely complex. But you don't make it this high, you can't even say, so we add a billion and it's enough. It's just not like that. First, you need to know what the parameters, what it's going to do with the system, model it, and then we can talk about how the total amount will eventually be increased. I think that's how it is, and you can't presume the debate by just firing a number. No one can do that, it would be stupid, I'm sorry, that would be totally unacceptable. First there has to be a parametric debate, and now it's happening. I'm glad it's happening. When we get to a result, we can talk about the specific numbers that it's going to do. And I'm hoping that we can do something that's gonna work out in the long run... [[Your time.]] ... because these parameters can't be changed every year. That wouldn't be functional at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u41	Thank you. With further intervention now Mrs Lucie Šafránková, then Mrs Alena Schillerová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you in the context of a deteriorating situation in the field of employment of disabled people in the so-called protected labour market. This deterioration is directly linked to your government's budgetary policy, which has given way to a previously announced increase in funds for contributions to support the employment of disabled people. As the employers concerned point out, there is therefore a threat that not only thousands of jobs for disabled people will be lost, but also the demise of many companies that have employed these citizens for years. For example, the management of the Drutěva production cooperative talks about the fact that the situation is already literally winding up for these companies. It is also about the fact that the maximum monthly amount of eligible costs per disabled employee amounts to CZK 13,600 for two years, although the minimum wage has increased several times over that period and, of course, other mandatorial costs of these companies have increased significantly. There is therefore a threat of mass redundancies of workers who do not have a chance to apply to the classic free labour market, which, on the one hand, will reduce their standard of living and burden our social system and, on the other hand, will make their lives worse, because employment is a huge social benefit for these people. Dear Prime Minister, what will your government and you personally do to ensure that this black scenario does not come true? What will you do to save the jobs of our disabled fellow citizens? And what will you do to support their employers?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u43	Thank you, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala will now have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u44	Thank you. Madam, this is an important subject and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is very intensive about this. At present, there is an upcoming analysis that maps the detailed situation in the labour market, including potential market risks, or rather individual sub-sectors of the market. In this context, a working group was established at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which deals with the state of the current system of support for the employment of people with disabilities and - and above all, and this is the main task of the working group - by making the system more efficient. As regards any increase in the contribution, representatives of employers of people with disabilities were promised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that, if the state of public finances would allow it, the increase would be addressed in the second half of this year, in 2022. This is a contribution to support the employment of disabled people in the protected labour market. The contribution is provided on a quarterly basis, the maximum amount of the contribution is fixed by a government regulation. Currently it is CZK 13 600 plus CZK 1,000 flat-rate per person with disabilities, i.e. a total of CZK 14 600 per person. The contribution is legally entitled and belongs to all employers who employ more than 50 per cent of people with disabilities. We are aware of the employer's demand for a protected labour market, which requires an increase in the maximum amount of the contribution even as a result of a gradual increase in the minimum wage. Employment of people with disabilities in the protected market has been growing and growing over the long term. In 2020, there was an increase of 4 097 in the number of people with disabilities supported in comparison with 2019 and there was an increase in the number of employers supported, i.e. employers operating on the protected market, by 248 such employers, so we can say that the protected market grew more during the pandemic than in the years of the economic boom and that growth continued last year. In the second quarter of last year, the number of people with health insurance increased by more than 6,000, by more than 4,000 in the third quarter. There has also been a year-on-year decline in the number of job applicants from disabled people, so the situation is improving on this side. But it is clear, of course, that from the side - although it is improving, and the figures show this clearly - the employment office is paid attention to motivational, educational, counselling, rehabilitation activities with the aim of finding suitable jobs on the free labour market without using or providing the contribution in question. But where it's necessary, as I said before, the allowance pays. Both the number of people with disabilities and the number of employers who are supported by them are growing and there is a promise from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that if the state of public finances would allow this, the increase in the contribution will be addressed in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u45	Thank you. Again, there is an interest in the supplementary question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u46	I thank you for your answer, Prime Minister, but your answer was still insufficient for me, because I think the promise is quite inadequate, and it is quite late for me in the second half of the year. But I also wanted to ask about another serious issue that adversely affects the disabled, and this is a reduction in the amount of funding for the budget care allowance by almost CZK 1 billion compared to the original proposal, although payment limits and prices of assistant care services have increased since March. In this situation, according to all relevant experts, there should be an increase in the volume of these funds as well as an increase in the contribution to care itself, at least for persons in the first and second stages of dependence on so-called home care. Why, then, does the government cut and save on disabled citizens?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u47	That was a supplementary question and the Prime Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u48	My answer will be very brief that the second half of 2022 is too late. Well, we all know what situation we're in, how public finances are, and when our government came in, when our government took responsibility. So I think it's not too late, but mostly the facts I was saying show that it's not too late, that it's time to focus on it and that it's enough this year. When you look at how many people with disabilities have been employed, and it has actually been growing continuously in 2019, 2020 and 2021 quite highly, and if you look at the fact that there is also an increase in the number of employers working on the protected labour market, even by hundreds of entities, it is clear that there is no acute problem. Of course, I also take into account what happens to money, what inflation does to them, how energy prices develop, it is certainly possible to talk about all these things, and therefore the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, when dealing with those who employ people with disabilities, has promised that in the second half of the year, namely, an increase in how they deal with it, but they will focus on increasing the contribution. I think it's time, that it's early and that it's the way the current situation requires it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u49	Thank you, and an apology before the next interview. Mr. Jiří Mašek apologizes today between 18:00 and midnight due to illness. And please, Mrs Alena Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Prime Minister, I would like to begin by saying that our movement has repeatedly declared that it does not want to create political conflicts in relation to the currently escalated situation in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, and I believe that at a time of military threat, when only a few hundred kilometres away from us, the coalition and opposition must be constructive and united. That's for starters. However, tomorrow the state budget will be discussed at second reading, next week at third reading, and although the five-calice voted uniformly on the government for this budget, and I understand that there is a difficult situation going on here, so it is already announced, last week or this week it was announced, 1.8 billion strengthening especially the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, partly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Yesterday, the government announced the strengthening of the Ministry of Defence chapter, which can do no different than the amendment, because it doesn't have that money in the provisional budget, which I'm sure you'll confirm, but that's not relevant at the moment. And we know and it is daily in the media that, according to information, almost half a million migrants are on the Polish-Ukrainian border, raw material prices are dramatically rising, primarily gas, oil, so-called war inflation is accelerating more significantly, because inflation is double-digit and will be double-digit in a very short period of time, and we are waiting - reading, actually listening daily to the statements of your ministers of your government - waiting for us, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing support for refugees. I'm not criticizing... [[Your time.]] ... I know it is necessary and necessary, but I ask you, how much will be the total cost? Can this cut your budget? [[Your time.]] And when will you prepare a novel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u51	Thank you. I beg you to keep your time. And now Prime Minister Petr Fiala, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u52	Madam President, thank you for the assurance that in this difficult situation, the opposition will be constructive and will help resolve the problems that the Czech Republic will certainly face here, and, of course, we will also cooperate with the opposition wherever possible. I must say that the situation we are facing right now is not only very complex but also very difficult to predict. We really do not know exactly what all the consequences of what is happening to our economy, the huge conflict in Ukraine, the Russian aggression, the impact it will have on the Czech economy. Of course, we already know something, and that is, you mentioned it here, some of the changes in the budget - 1.8 billion - and now yesterday's government decision to add 1 billion in defense. This can be done within this budget and in those parameters of the budget as they were approved at first reading. However, we do not want to delay the situation, we believe that we need to get out of the budget commission quickly, so we want to approve the budget in those parameters and in the way it was set up. And I can't rule it out, and I hate to say it, but I can't rule out that we're going to have to go to a novel over the course of the year, so I'd warn a little bit about doing some dramatic adjustments now that we don't even know exactly what the effects are going to be. I say again, there's no way that we're going to have to make a change after that. Well, if we look at the possible impacts, of course they'll be more indirect, so when it comes to the direct - restrictions on exports to Russia, stopping imports from Russia, there will probably not be such dramatic impacts on the economy as a whole, mutual trade is about 2.5 percent of our exports, he has actually fallen a bit after the occupation of Crimea. Of course, when I say this, this does not exclude that there may be a more significant impact on certain specific companies for which this market constitutes an important part of their sales. That's where the Department of Labour communicates with the companies and prepares measures. As for the other country to which sanctions are imposed, that means Belarus, there is an exchange of virtually zero, so there will be no impact. But, of course, we can't predict exactly what the impact will be on the energy market, what impact it will have on the growth of energy prices, oil, natural gas. We know that the prices of other raw materials, such as iron and titanium ores, are already responding to those markets, where they are imported from Ukraine and are not currently alternatives to these imports. Of course, the response in price growth is also psychological to some extent, it is just logical, so it is often in such a tense situation, but we will see what the long-term impact will be. That is why I say to predict the development of the Czech economy - yesterday I have heard some macro-economics with very pessimistic statements in the media - but at this moment predict what it will do to the Czech economy, that is the divination of the crystal ball, it will also depend on how long the war in Ukraine will take place and how devastating it will be. [[15.40 hours]] There's one more topic, I'll just touch it briefly. We must wait - and we are already facing an influx of refugees from Ukraine. It is clear that the impact will be in billions of crowns. We don't know exactly how many people are coming. We've already released some funds. These people need all the help they can get, women and children are coming. They run to save their lives. And certainly the Czech Republic, the Czech Government and the entire Czech political representation will try to help these people and we will have to allocate adequate funds for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u53	Yes. Thank you. Is there an interest in addition? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u54	Prime Minister, thank you for your honest answer, honest, honest for me, because I already said that on the budget committee last week - or this - is a terrible flight - that you have to come up with a novel. You admit it today. The assessment is absolutely realistic. Your Vice Prime Minister and Home Secretary have already told Václav Moravec's questions on Sunday that he estimates it to be up to 20 billion. It's all real. You come up with a novel, and I'll even be generous enough not to tell you, I told you. Just ask for the same generosity in evaluating our government, because we were in exactly the same situation where we suddenly had to strengthen from balanced budgets day to day. I've been here seven times asking for money with an amendment to the State Budget Act and we've been dealing with similar problems. So I can empathize with what you're experiencing now, how difficult it is to predict... [[Time.]] ... as you already know how much money you're going to need. [[Your time.]] I ask the same assessment of our government, because we were in an equally simple situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u55	Your time is long over. I'm begging for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u56	The way I look at it is that given the difficult prediction and the fact that we know that the world will simply not be the way it was before the war, and neither will our situation and the Czech economy, so I would consider it the right strategy, or keep the strategy that we have now, that means approving the budget as quickly as possible next week, as planned, in the parameters that we have set up there, because we are trying to make a realistic budget and put all the revenue and expenditure in there, as we are able to assess, so we are also doing the adjustment that we have already mentioned here, both of you and I. And then we need to evaluate what we really need, either in terms of humanitarian or military aid to Ukraine, so in terms of helping the refugees who are coming here, but so maybe in terms of some of the consequences that war will have on energy, raw materials and other things, and to prepare a later or after some time some more complex amendment that would take into account all these amounts and somehow adjust the budget. I'm really not happy about this. I'd love it if we'd just accept the budget that I think is good, and we could do it all year long... and maybe you don't think it's that good, but it doesn't matter, but they've just had this budget all year in those approved parameters. But we're living in a time that none of us could possibly have imagined, and we're just gonna have to deal with it in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u57	Thank you. Mr Radek Koten is now duly entered and drawn and Mrs Karla Maříková will then be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u58	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, lately, what we have warned about has become a reality, and that means a huge increase in energy for citizens. Of course, we can also see this on fuel, which is now moving even over 44 crowns in Prague at premium petrol, and unfortunately it will go even further. I wanted to ask you how you want to address the situation in the fuel market, the gas situation, the electricity situation, because so far we are the last of the V4 states, perhaps the last of the European states that have done nothing here for end consumers, and for companies that are life-dependent on energy, namely gas and electricity. And so far, the Polish solution, when the excise duty on fuel has been reduced, VAT has decreased, and so have you, for example, in Slovakia, and you have done nothing in this. I would also like to ask how the energy security of the Czech Republic is ensured, for how long we have gas in storage tanks, for how long we have fuel in nuclear power plants? Because, as we saw in Slovakia, despite the ban on flights of Russian aircraft, the plane landed and brought fuel to nuclear power stations in the Slovak Republic. I would like to ask you, how do you ensure this, and for what time do you have these commodities? With regard to other commodities, such as in the state's material stocks, for what time are basic foods? This would certainly interest citizens in the crisis that we are experiencing here. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u59	Thank you. Before the Prime Minister arrives, I will ask all Members of Parliament and Members to wear mouth protection on the inside. Please, Prime Minister Petr Fiala. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u60	Dear Member, these are certainly important questions, we need to deal with them, we are intensively dealing with them, and I even informed the public from this place yesterday at the opening of the Chamber of Deputies about how we are doing with the energy and its supplies. And now I'm going to try to sum it up a little bit in answer to your question, and maybe even more concrete about some things. The very basic information that should calm the public is that the Czech Republic has current oil reserves for more than three months and current gas reserves for more than a month. We are also ready for possible restrictions on Russian gas and oil supplies to Europe. However, at this point, we do not have information - neither the Ministry of Industry and Trade nor any other state authorities - that would indicate that there is currently a problem in the transport of gas or oil from Russia to the European Union. Of course, this does not mean that this situation may not occur, that we should not prepare for it, but it is only necessary to say correctly, at this point, there are no signs of restrictions or even interruptions of supply. In the Czech Republic, about 8 million tonnes of oil are processed annually, of which 97 percent are imported, about half are supplied from the Družba pipeline, the other half from the Ingolstadt pipeline. The Czech Republic has sufficient supplies. In the case of oil, supplies are really over 90 days. To date, the oil supply is about 94 days. That's really good enough. Moreover, we have automatic procedures and mechanisms that are coordinated in cooperation with abroad, namely with the International Energy Agency and the European Commission, and we know exactly what would happen if those magazines started emptying out. This procedure is regularly practiced in some national and international exercises, so there is really no need to worry about oil here. Of course, as you well know, and it is spoken of repeatedly publicly, so in the case of gas and gas reservoirs, it is a little more complicated, given that there is some kind of trade there, there is a different link of the state to the reservoirs and so on and so on. Currently, however, about 800 million cubic meters are stored in storage tanks in the Czech Republic, which would be enough for about a month in current daily gas collections. But since it is expected that daily temperatures should increase even a little bit, gas consumption, because it is measured on today's consumption, could decrease slightly, so we can assume that the supply is slightly larger. Of course, here, unlike oil, if the supply of natural gas were to be completely stopped, the situation as well as the substitution is much, much more complex. [[15.50 hours]] What seems to be playing a little bit in our hands is the fact that those months that await us, in Europe and, of course, in the Czech Republic, with the exception of March, it is also necessary to say that they usually represent significantly lower gas consumption. In the months of April to September, gas consumption is usually around 30% of the year-round consumption, so the outlook is more optimistic from this point of view. At the same time, it must be added that the European Commission has dealt with a number of other alternative suppliers and are ready for this year's gas supply by covering European consumption even if Russia completely ceases to supply gas to Europe. But as I say, this would be an extremely difficult situation, more complex than oil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u61	Yes, thank you, and there is an interest in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u62	Thank you for the floor. You, Prime Minister, have not answered the basic question, that is basically the thing that you are going to do with energy prices for citizens of this republic and for companies of this republic, which, of course, everything, the whole expensive including food, will also be based on energy prices and fuel prices, because goods need to be transported to consumers, and unfortunately, it is all costing consumer prices, which is why inflation will also be double-digit. Unfortunately, I did not know for how long our two nuclear power plants have fuel, which may be a fatal problem, because then we would find ourselves in an energy hazard, because nuclear power plants produce quite a lot of energy here, and without that we would probably not be able to do without it. Otherwise, as far as wearing a drape is concerned, I'm sorry because I'm suffering from lung obstruction, and in case I have a respirator, I'm choking, and the doctor forbade me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u63	Thank you and now the Prime Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u64	I didn't answer you on purpose when it comes to the nuclear fuel supply, and I think that's why I didn't answer you, you understand, because that's strategic information, and I don't think it would be good to make it public. But I can assure you that we have enough nuclear fuel supplies for a sufficient period of time and that we are also ready to supplement them. But I really can't say any more because I would get into a situation that, given that there is a conflict of war next to us and that we also have certain rules that we have to respect, I just can't go on with the answer. But no one has to worry about stopping the operation of our nuclear power plants. That, of course, would be irresponsible and it would be very bad, because our energy mix is important to the core energy. And when you talk about energy prices, and just to produce the corresponding energy capacity from the core, there is a certain guarantee that we are able to keep those prices at least to a reasonable degree, even now, of course, what is happening in the European market, we are watching and looking for solutions to stabilize prices and how to help people who are affected by energy poverty. That's what I've been talking about, and the government has taken some decisive steps. I was also talking about the amounts in the previous answer we set aside so that no one would be in existential difficulties due to rising energy prices. By the way, the last comment I might be able to make in those ten seconds: the government also decided yesterday to launch the Dukovan tender, and I think that in connection with this debate is also extremely important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u65	Thank you and now for the last interpellation from this block of Mrs Karla Maříková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, Mr Prime Minister. On Friday, the Czech Internet association CZ.NIC blocked eight websites on the recommendation of the government with disinformation. This is a completely unprecedented restriction on democracy, in a fundamental way. If we live in a legal state, such a step requires evidence and a judicial decision. That's why I'm asking you: Did the published information ever fill the reality of a crime with these websites? And has anyone ever given such an incentive and passed the trial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u67	Thank you. Now Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u68	Madam, I am happy to answer your interpellation. Let me just remind you, but you know, Europe has found itself in a situation that many of us haven't even imagined until recently, and what we're experiencing these days is something absolutely incredible that's happening east of us, and it's not far at all. This, of course, accelerates some of the steps taken by the European countries and the Czech Republic to combat misinformation. The activities of disinformation sites in the Czech Republic have been problematic for a long time, but they have been tolerated for years, but no free society can take into account the long-term effects of foreign services on its territory, acting in a way designed to bring panic, lies between citizens and society, and which is intended to disrupt democratic institutions. The domain manager's decision, as you mentioned here, is a free decision by the server administrator, as well as a free decision by any other news server. Yes, the government does not prevent it, on the contrary, we consider this decision to be absolutely correct by the administrator of the CZ.NIC domain. The situation requires us to resist misinformation, disinformation war is part of a hybrid war that Russia has waged against us in the long run, it is part of a modern war. As I describe it now, the vast majority of the democratic, but also of the undemocratic world view it. It's part of the struggle, it's part of the hybrid war, and that's how we have to approach it. At present, we see that the vast majority of the countries of the democratic world or all the countries of the democratic world are adopting economic, diplomatic, political sanctions against Russia, which prevent President Putin's regime from acting and doing all of its activities, which acts criminally in this war conflict, and that we are preventing it, after all, means that we will prevent it and we must also prevent it from fighting through various means in our territory. And in our territory, this fight is led by disinformation and disinformation servers. When we mention the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, there is, of course, a guarantee of freedom of expression and the right to information, and this freedom is not disturbed by the abolition of these disinformation websites, there is also a part that says that freedom of expression and - now I quote - 'the right to seek and disseminate information can be restricted by law when it comes to democratic society's measures necessary to protect the rights and freedoms of others, the security of the state, public security, the protection of public health and morality'. End of quote from the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. So even in the context of the fact that the document itself talks about the fact that we can limit - and it's completely logical - some things precisely because we have to protect ourselves, so it's logical that the domain administrator shuts down servers, shuts down sites that are disinformational that Putinův's regime uses for war with us, and it's part of defense and part of what we do. [[16.00 hours]] I think the Czech Republic must resist misinformation, that it is our duty, that it is also a form of protection for our citizens. We are not alone in this, most countries of the democratic world do it, some faster, some slower, but they all do it. We will defend ourselves with disinformation, which is why the Czech Government approved at yesterday's meeting the creation of a media agent and misinformation that will address this issue in more detail, so that we can effectively defend ourselves from misinformation and have a good defense against this form of hybrid war that Russia has waged against us in the long term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u69	Thank you. And let me ask you, Madame, are you interested in a follow-up question? You gave an interview before 4:00 p.m., this option is here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u70	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the time. I certainly don't want to approve or contradict what these websites share, Prime Minister, but it was said that CZ.NIC turned off those websites on the recommendation of the government, and you even said that it might be an edge, but that takes courage. I suppose we live in a legal state, and it should either be the law - it is not - or there should be a court decision, because it could happen that the salami method here will destroy websites that will be uncomfortable and will not spread just one truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u71	Now the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u72	Well, to whom, Madame, uncomfortable, and what one truth? We don't have one truth. We have a pluralism of opinion, we have a democratic society, we have a functioning democracy, we have freedom of speech, we have a vast range of media in which you can express your opinion, you can base your own opinions, you can spread your opinions without limitation, you can defend here - I'm not saying that you defended - you can defend the disinformation websites of the Russian Federation here with impunity, so all of this is possible. This was not possible in countries not enjoying democracy and in countries where we were 30 years ago or more than 30 years ago. But let us not confuse with freedom of speech, with freedom of expression, the fact that someone is shutting down websites that have proven to be spreading misinformation in favor of the Russian Federation, and they need to be supported by the Russian Federation. That's something that's perfectly logical that we won't allow in our country. It's not going anywhere, it's not going anywhere, it's not going anywhere, it's not going to scare anyone, freedom of speech, freedom of speech is a thing that's really important to me, I'd really be the first to stand on a barricade if something like this happened. And as for my statements, yes. It is in accordance with our legislation, but it requires some political courage, even a view of the law that tells you that it is possible to go this way. The government is not afraid of such a decision in this situation, I support the free decision of the server administrator and I think it is the right way to do it, but there is no more to derive from it. All that can be derived from this is that the Czech Republic actively opposes misinformation and misinformation servers that support the criminal Russian aggression and Russian regime of Vladimír Putin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u73	Thank you. At this point, the time has passed for oral questioning of the Prime Minister, so you're done. There will be interpelations on the other members of the government, and I am also passing on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to open oral interpelations, and I hereby call on Mr Jan Síla to present an interview at the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Mr Vít Rakušan, and thus initiate a block of replies from the members of the Government to the interpelation of Members. And please prepare Mrs Karla Maříková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u75	Thank you for the floor. My question is, right at the beginning, how will the government address the unconstitutional liquidation of alternative websites? In 1989 we rang the keys for the abolition of the censorship of communist totalitarianism, after 30 years it is back here. The authorities refer to the selected websites as disinformation without bothering to prove that the communications contained therein are misinformation, i.e. deliberately false information. If the dissemination of opinions or information is contrary to the law, the authority empowered by law must decide on the commandment in the dissemination. A clear reason must be given for this decision and this decision must be reviewed by an independent authority. It is not acceptable for a social network operator to make such a decision on the basis of an agreement with the authorities. Everyone has the right to their opinion, to be wrong, and to be ridiculed, but everyone also has the right to spread their views. It is an integral part of freedom of speech, therefore it is unacceptable to interfere with the dissemination of views that are not contrary to the law. Would it not be better to cancel the elections directly and let the Central Committee of the Constitutional Court and a few senators from the Prague cafes rule? And to make matters worse, add some executive committees composed of political scientists, political activists, like million-timers, agilely active editors of Czech television, political nonprofits, various commentators in conjunction with repressive forces and BIS, which will protect us from all spies. They didn't have this carefully captured losers and vigilantes or standardized comrades. Whoever doesn't come with us is against us. And you may not believe it, but that's the same line Bush made on television in the '90s on a so-called peace mission to Iraq. [[Your time is up. Thank you.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u76	Thank you. Since Mr. Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vít Rakušan is duly excused, I am giving the floor to Mrs. Karla Maříková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u77	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, the Czech Republic has undertaken to buy a large number of covid-19 vaccines and I wonder how many vaccines we have bought since the very beginning of the pandemic, how much it has cost us so far, how many we currently have in stock, when their expiration ends and how many vaccines are still ordered and from which companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u78	Thank you, and Prime Minister Válek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u79	Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members. The vaccination is now at four to five thousand doses a day, differing from day to day. We call on citizens to the third dose, we have started vaccinations, even with Novavax. We expect that at least some groups of people will have to be vaccinated at the beginning of autumn. Of course, a third dose should be given to all those with a second dose and more than five months after that. The strategy is being prepared by NIZP. All vaccine orders have already been made. Now we get only what has already been ordered in the territory. The longest we're gonna get is a vaccine from the Comirnata. Here the order was made until the end of 2023. The important thing is that it is an order of the number of vaccines, not the type of vaccines, i.e. within the central European order, a company vaccine was ordered, but not the type of vaccine. The vaccine will be taken, which at the moment will be optimal. [[16.10 hours]] Orders cannot be suspended, this needs to be stressed because it was the European Union's central order and we are a Member State, we participated in the order by booking a certain amount. For 2021, 2022 and 2023, a total of 48.7 million doses of vaccine were ordered at the total price of CZK 20 billion. Of course, these prices are only an estimate because they are based on the current exchange rate of the euro. In 2021 CZK 19.7 million was paid for CZK 7.6 billion, in 2022 it was 12,9 million for CZK 6.4 billion, in 2023 CZK 10.8 million for CZK 5.4 billion. Vaccines are disposed of continuously when they occur. At the same time, the vaccines are donated. For comparison, Austria donated 4.7 million doses, Belgium 10.4 million doses, Croatia 20.1 million doses, Denmark 9.1 million doses. If we looked into Hungary, 3.4 million doses, then the Netherlands was very generous in this regard and donated 22.7 million doses. The most generous was Spain, which donated 54.5 million doses, which is more than what we ordered. We ordered - just to compare - 48.7 million doses, Spain donated 54.5 million doses. But even the states, as I said, in our neighborhood, donated about 5 million doses on average to make it easier. Portugal, from which we take the example of the vaccination campaign, then donated 7 million doses. Even neighbouring Slovakia, which is smaller than the Czech Republic, donated 2.2 million doses. We are in this practically second to last place, less than we, than the Czech Republic, have donated only Bulgaria. We also sell part of the vaccine doses, but this is obviously not going well, although some countries still have an interest. So in a year and a quarter of a massive vaccination campaign was destroyed because of the expiration or the treatment of, for example, the power outage, when the vaccines were not stored well for a certain period of time, or because they were poorly packaged, 197 000 doses for approximately CZK 67 million, i.e. 48,7 million doses, which is 6 million less than Spain donated, destroyed 197 000 doses. Those orders were made in 2020 by Minister Vojtěch, then in October 2020 by Minister Prymula, and orders from Pfizer were made in November 2020 to 2021 by Minister Blatný, from Moderny 2021 by Minister Blatný, from Pfizer from 2022 to 2023 and August 2021 by Minister Vojtěch. Minister Vojtěch ordered Novavax and I confirmed the order and finally ordered Sanofi vaccine by Minister Vojtěch. Now I might say that the previous ministers and the previous government are responsible for the fact that we have so many benefits. It is not true, and I thank the previous ministers and the government for ordering these vaccines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u80	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? I see you do, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, thank you for such an exhausting answer, but I will still ask. If there's a liquidation and we don't donate any vaccines, who's doing the disposal? Us or the manufacturer? And do we pay manufacturers a fine for not using them? Then I wonder if the Czech Republic will receive a financial bonus from the European Union for a certain percentage of population vaccination and whether or not we have ordered, or are counting on it, a vaccine from Valneva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u82	Thank you. Minister, are you still interested in answering? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize in advance because I'm an old man and I didn't fix all the questions. I'll go from behind, I remember that. We will order all vaccines that will be effective, which will work on the current virus mutation and which will be approved by EMA. The liquidation costs nothing, it is carried out in cooperation with SÚKL and the manufacturers do not pay. We have initiated with some other health ministers to revise contracts with Pfizer, especially this company, because we believe that the situation was not predictable two years ago either by the company or by the European Union, and it is necessary to say whether it is possible to reduce the original orders in any way, possibly to debate that, for example, the vaccines will not be delivered at all, but again I say, the reservation is only for the vaccine, and not for the type and develops, of course, a special vaccine such as omicron and some other mutations that were ultimately not dominant, and for children. As far as the question of the parties is concerned whether the European Union is somehow rewarding us for some percentage of inoculation, I really did not think of it, but it certainly is not. I don't think it can be that way, either. It should be said that the price of the vaccine purchased was somewhere - when the contract was signed when I compared it to the influenza vaccine - at about a fifth of the price of the influenza vaccine. That means the price was really low. If you recall, some countries that did not participate in European orders overpaid the price at which the European Union countries bought it. I think we were very reasonable and very sober in ordering, and I will continue this strategy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u84	Minister, thank you. I call on Mr Richard Brabec to give an interview to Minister Hubáčková, you have the floor. Mr Karel Tureček will also be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have prepared a special respirator here for the Minister, who is an advertisement for the program introduced for my leadership at the Ministry of Environment. New green savings, and I believe that the programme will continue because it is good and connected intensively or very closely with what I want to say. I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, about the outcome, if any, of your meeting with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, who is one of the main architects of a package of legislation called Green Deal. By the way, Mr Timmermans is also the author of the statement that it is difficult for me to understand that the reason for Russia's aggression against Ukraine is to try to distract Russia from the failure to address the climate problem in Russia. I leave that in some way without comment, but it is some evidence for me, let's say, of how at least part of the European Commission is considered. But I wanted to ask you, Madam Secretary, whether you have discussed any changes to the Green Deal in a situation where it is now quite clear that, at least as far as the schedule for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is concerned, but also other parts of the Green Deal, this document or documents must be substantially modified, modified. After all, we all know that Russia's natural gas had, not only in the Czech Republic - and here I recall, for example, the last expression of Mr Habeck's German policy, even for the Green Party, which speaks of certain, of course, revitalization of some coal mines - so Russian gas should replace coal not only in the Czech Republic, but also in other countries. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u86	Thank you. Since Minister Hubáčková is duly excused, please take the next step, and this is Mr Karel Tureček, who has an interview with the Minister for Agriculture. Please prepare Mrs. Eliška Olšáková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask the absent minister here about the issue of adapting the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy. [[16.20 hours]] The Ministry of Agriculture itself states that if anyone promotes organic farming, then they can receive a subsidy of over CZK 20,000 per hectare of agricultural land. If the farmer is in the category of younger farmers, it may even be CZK 25 000 per hectare. I would very much like to know how much these farmers must harvest and sell organic agricultural commodities for this money. Can the Minister of Agriculture rule out completely that there will not be situations where it will be enough to sow, for example, cumin for two years and let it grow with atle with zero harvest? That would be no support for agriculture, but just a subsidy factory. Is there an analysis at the Department of Agriculture or an estimate of how much this could increase the price of the perpetrator? Do we have an estimate of how much this could make food more expensive? Personally, I fear that farmers currently producing commodities will adapt to the new situation and reduce production. This will significantly reduce self-sufficiency and will have an impact on the increase in food prices for our citizens. It will be mainly fruit, vegetables, potatoes, milk and meat. Dear absent Minister, can you commit yourself to the fact that due to the newly adopted modifications to the strategic plan, the above mentioned phenomena, i.e. the increase in food prices, reduced self-sufficiency, or extremely lack of certain foods, will not occur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u88	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. As Minister Nekula is duly excused, I call on Mrs Olšáková to present an interview to the Minister of Finance Stanjura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u89	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, Members. Dear Minister of Finance, as a Member and as President of the Association of Local Authorities of the Czech Republic, I would like to interpel you on the matter of freezing the accounts of municipalities, cities, regions, but also the LAG in Sberbank Bank and possible aid to the State in the form of credit. The municipalities and cities, which have mainly tax revenues in their accounts, chose Sberbank Bank for many reasons, especially from a sound economic point of view, since Sberbank Bank was not rated as a risk by the Czech National Bank, had very good results and achieved high profits last year. This bank was also included in the portfolio of financial advisors, i.e. experts did not regard it as a risk. Thus, it is not possible to say that the municipalities are in this situation with their carelessness, but they are currently trapped by the geopolitical situation. At this point, we know that in the case of municipalities, this is not just a threat to their operation, but mainly to investment, because the temporary freezing of general funds that they may recover will have long-term effects on the development of their municipalities, namely on the development of our state. So, Minister, my question to you is: Will your resort prepare a loan to municipalities with frozen accounts in Sberbank to help them overcome this current situation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u90	Madam, thank you. Mr. Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u91	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna be completely honest with you. If you remember when the State Treasury system was being implemented, the proposal was that municipalities and regions should have compulsory accounts in the Czech National Bank Treasury. The municipalities and regions were strongly opposed, and it remained as a possibility. Whoever has rights must also have responsibility. I'm sorry, I'm not questioning the bank's economic results, but at least since 2014, when Russia annexed Crimea, from my point of view, it has been clear that the bank owned by the Russian Central Bank is extremely risky, at least from a political point of view. It should be said that the fall of Sberbank was not due to sanctions, but to a really absolute loss of trust in its clients. It was not sanctions that contributed to the rapid fall of Sberbank, but an absolute loss of confidence. We have to admit that. Because it's voluntary, as the Treasury, we don't have the exact number of municipalities that have money there. We are only able to find out for municipalities over 3,000 inhabitants, and thanks to such unpopular - and I know it is unpopular - PAP, I'm sure the MP knows what it is, it means, it's an auxiliary analytical basis - so we know that these municipalities are 123. Only five of them are entitled to pay out of the insurance fund because they fulfil the condition that their tax revenues did not exceed 500 000 euros, and that is what the municipalities had to prove to be entitled, because according to the law you have to fulfil two conditions. First, the income of the municipality from tax revenue must be less than 500,000 euros. This is based on the course of the last day of the year. At the same time, the municipality must demonstrate to the bank that it fulfils the condition and only on this basis the municipality is getting into the new guarantee system of the financial market. It works, starting next week to pay off funds to those entitled. According to the reports I have from public sources, Sberbank has relatively valuable assets, so the governments that have the money there will get to the money. Nobody's gonna be able to say what percentage today, that's what I'm gonna say. I don't think it's realistic to expect 100% after liquidation. Of course, the process will be long. It's hard to estimate, but it won't be in the order of weeks, but in the order of months or years. Now let's see what we can do. You were talking about whether the state was ready to provide loans. Well, I'm sure we'll discuss it, we'll deal with it individually, but the loan is also not a cost-free item. And it has to be said that all of this is going to be made out of debt, so the state is going to have to borrow to lend to the municipalities. Of course, municipalities can use standard credit instruments, no one can prevent them from doing so. As they succeed, they fail, I think there will be an individual opportunity again. But to say here that the state will automatically help all who have money there, so I'm not prepared to make such a statement here because, as I said, even if it's not popular where the rights are, it's also a responsibility. I would remind you that the cities and municipalities refused to have accounts with the CNB, with the fact that their financial autonomy would be impaired. I remember the debate. So when the crisis comes, the state will help as far as possible. That means we can't promise that we'll provide the money free of charge to all who have the money there and will be waiting to be liquidated, because we can't figure out how many of the municipalities there are from any analytical evidence. But I think there's a little bit of communication going on with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities to get the total number. I think it's gonna be important to say the sum of the money, not just the number - if those communities have five million, fifty. I say we proceed on an individual basis according to how much it hits a particular village or city or region. I don't think there's any other way to proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u92	Minister, thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? No, thank you. So, please, next in line, and this is Mrs Pastuchová, who will interpel Mr Vice-President of the Government of Válek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am going back to the subject that I have already mentioned here, and the topic is sanitary stations, or their budget and workers. It is a topic that I see as very important in the current situation. You announced - I made sure of it myself when visiting our sanitary station now - that they would have to count on a smaller budget. It's obvious that sanitation stations will have to respond to that with layoffs. In a situation where one of the main activities is covid and now there will be problems caused by the war in Ukraine, we must expect a massive refugee wave to touch the work of sanitation stations. I am glad that the government and the public react as they react that we all offer a helping hand, and so it should be. But we must also realise that we will have to respond to the risks that this entails. Fortunately, the covidový pandemic is in retreat at the moment. But we don't know what vaccinations are among refugees. We also have to assume that there is an increased risk of disease such as tuberculosis, measles or polio. And we're gonna have to deal with this. We're gonna help, and they're gonna be first-line hygienists again. Their thanks are great, and we should not cut their money in this situation. In this context, it should be said that the work on sanitary stations is rather demanding and so on, I will cut short because I do not have time. [[16.30 hours]] I want to ask: Do you still see your steps towards hygiene as well-timed? How will you address the lack of health care professionals? Who's gonna do their job? Their spectrum is really wide. They're already failing, or they're prosecuting with the strain of their forces, and when they visited our sanitation station, they begged me to let them breathe out at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u94	Madam, thank you and I give the floor to Minister Válek. In the meantime, I apologise for the participation of Prime Minister Petr Fiala in today's House's negotiations, from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members, I would like to put a few things on the table, perhaps a misunderstanding, to begin with. In fact, we know very well how the Ukrainian population is inoculated. The vaccination calendar of Ukrainian children is very similar to ours. We even know how she is vaccinated against covid, because of course the vaccination is reported, so we have a database from the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on how they are vaccinated, because they have a central register similar to ours, and we have validated it with WHO as far as compulsory vaccination of children is concerned. That means, no doubt, it's nothing unknown. On the contrary, we have prepared vaccination certificates in Czech and Ukrainian to make it easy, the vaccination, and at the same time we are ready to follow up on vaccination calendars for those children. That's to distract some fears and doubts. As far as vaccination against covid is concerned, there we are ready to continue the system they had in Ukraine. Rather, we are considering which vaccine to use for the third possible dose for these citizens, those refugees. As far as hygiene is concerned, I'm 100% sure, 100% sure! and I spoke to all the Regional Hygiene Directors, I invited them to the Ministry, and the Director of Pilsen Regional Hygiene is more than a guarantor, and they will be touring them, even with the Director, the hygiene again, that no hygiene professional will be released. But it is possible that, for example, one of the ten drivers employed there may be released, and that they may conclude that eight or nine drivers are sufficient, that they may not have ten when the average hygiene has three. That's really possible, and it can't be completely ruled out. I mean one particular regional hygiene. The differences in staffing are very large. We were talking about something he started, and we need to thank him for it, Minister Vojtěch. Unfortunately, he couldn't finish it together with his colleagues across the political spectrum because covid stepped in. As part of the proposed amendment to Act No. 258/2000, on the protection of public health, the Ministry of Health plans to merge all 14 regional health stations. It's not something I could invent, and I won't brag about other people's feathers. It was invented by the previous Minister of Health and developed in cooperation across the political spectrum with other experts. I am continuing to do this and I am just making some adjustments so that everyone is really drawn into it so that the Czech Koch Institute can really come into existence. We're thinking of something called the State Health Service. This intention of the Ministry of Health, as I said, is not new, and the aim is, it was also discussed in the commentary procedure, it reached the meeting of the Social Committee of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, it was discussed by the government, another legislative procedure was discussed. In particular, the Ministry of Health led the following reasons to merge all existing regional sanitation stations, i.e. fourteen, into one State Health Service, and I sign under them: Disunity of the procedure of individual regional health care stations in the context of the exercise of state health surveillance control - disunity of access to administrative punishment, imposition of fines and other sanctions to translate it. Insufficient coordination between individual regional health stations in the fight against covid-19 disease. These are all the reasons why everything needs to be centralized. The head of the State Hygiene Service should be the Central Director, who will be responsible to the Chief Hygiene Officer of the Czech Republic. He will remain Deputy Minister of Health for Public Health Protection and Support, only the question is whether it must be a doctor when a large part of regional health care is not the head of a doctor - he is the head of lawyers, economists and other experts. The Central Director will continue to be a Service Authority for the entire State Hygiene Service. The state health service will further be divided into territorial workplaces, fourteen territorial workplaces. The head of the local office will be the Deputy Central Director, who will be directly responsible for the performance of the state administration. The idea is that it will look like what it looks like, for example, in agriculture or in some other government bodies, and it is a de facto model that is common throughout Western Europe. We basically follow up on the idea that Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, or Alice Masaryková, had when she was standing at the birth of the State Health Institute, where this hierarchy was supposed to be and was then the dominant model. Then she turned into a model of regional hygiene. However, I can assure you that centralization of hygiene is not the way to lay off their professional staff, that is certainly not the case, but, for example, centralization of economic governance, centralization of accounting, personnel, personnel department, it will certainly benefit and simplify activities. On the contrary, the aim is to get into the system of Bachelors and Masters who are today dominant experts educated by our universities in these fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u96	Minister, thank you, and Mrs Pastuchová has an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for explaining what the transformation is - I know, I read it - but I didn't get the question of where you're going to deal with the lack of hygienists, because the numbers have fallen, and the doctors aren't going there, because the doctor who's coming is in grade 11 and he doesn't even have a guaranteed salary, so why would he stay there? [[Response to]] So here I am missing, and the budget, when you're in your chapter, sorry, health services, had the largest part of the health department cut off, and it's also about sanitation stations, I'm very sorry. And I can give you the contents of the health care stations, and I'm sure you know it. I'm asking you that they're doing their job, they had covid, now there's a refugee wave coming, and now they're just gonna transform. If you -- yes, I know it's planned -- but if you don't want to let the sanitation stations take a little breath, and not hit them again now with the fact that you're gonna make a big transformation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u98	Thank you for your follow-up. Minister, would you like to respond? Yes, you have the floor, and she can prepare herself slowly, Mrs Hanzlíková. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u99	I understand the objections, and I understand them completely, but the transformation is necessary. It is also necessary for this reason, and here I agree with my predecessor at the post of Minister of Health Minister, Minister Vojtěch, that only this way is the double-trackness of the State Health Institute and its laboratories plus hygiene and their competence to establish unity, to link the function of Chief Hygiene to the function of Director of the State Health Institute, to supplement it with scientific advice and to involve experts in this so that we really have an authority that is able to manage the situation. It must be said that Minister Vojtěch wanted to do the same reform, and I have to say that it is a great pity for today's reasons that this has not been achieved for various technical reasons at the time when the covid crisis came to an end. Let us remember when the law went to the Chamber of Deputies. On the contrary, in times of crisis, it turns out that some things that do not work well need to be reorganized. Regional hygiene and their bosses, even if they stand on their heads, as in the system as it is set today, cannot function well, cannot fully implement uniform rules, because it is not methodically possible. The salary of the main health care professional or regional health care professional is determined by the state secretary because they are under the service law, receive a bundle of money and distribute it in those regional hygiene according to their consideration and balance sheet, but it is not standardized systemization as we are used to in other areas of the public service. So it is entirely up to the Regional Hygiene Director, how many experts will be accepted, how many Bachelors, Magisters, are the dominant graduates of universities today, because unfortunately, the Department of Hygiene has finished and the graduates of these faculties are no longer entering today, the so-called Hygiene Doctors are not being produced by faculties today. They're magists today, bachelors. On the contrary, test-tested hygienists are often in hospitals. So I understand the objections, I understand the concerns, I really consult with Regional Hygiene Director, I will do it repeatedly, and I will drag them into the process so deep that the reform is their reform, not mine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u100	Thank you, Minister, and please Mrs Hanzlíková, to bring an interview to Minister Jurečka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, on 13. 9 2021 has been approved by the Government of the Strategic Preparation Framework for the Ageing of 2021-2025. This document contains objectives and measures from many areas of support and care for elderly people and from the area of preparation for ageing populations. These are, for example, social health services, a system of social services for seniors, their housing, but also support activities aimed at eliminating or at least mitigating the social isolation of seniors. And here it is important to say that at the time of the covid-19 epidemic, there were significant restrictions and cancellations of many activities for the elderly, which unfortunately led to the deepening of their social isolation for many of them. This is the reality that many social service providers are now addressing me with. At the same time, the Government's resolution to discuss the strategic framework resulted in a task for the MPSV to draw up an action plan for this document, which will already contain specific tasks, specific gesturers and specific timetables. I therefore ask, Minister, what stage is the preparation of the said action plan and whether and in what way the experience of the cod-19 pandemic in the care of seniors will be taken into account in the action plan. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u102	Madam, thank you. And the Prime Minister, Minister Marian Jurečka, has the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u103	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interpelation. And, of course, I would like to begin by saying that the issue that relates to the ageing of the elderly, the ageing of the population and the whole area of demographics in the Czech Republic, but also in Europe in general, the issue that is serious, which in those data that are, clearly speaks about the fact that the real Czech population is getting older. We can see and perceive the shift in a clear, unstoppable way that today about 19.9 percent are people we consider to be seniors, that is, the 65+ age category. When we look at future developments, sometime in 2050, and this also applies to me and many of us who are here today as rather younger colleagues, it will be about us and will be about 29 percent. And on what you specifically mentioned, the action plan that was adopted in September last year, he and the resolution clearly impose on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in order to develop a strategic plan in the action plan, to process it within 12 months, and then to submit it to the government. I take it as one of the important tasks in order, on the one hand, to fulfil the government's resolution, but not for the formal fulfilment itself, but because really today, apart from what you mentioned, this means the issue of covid and its impact on a whole generation of seniors, it is a matter that is serious, which many families are dealing with, many facilities that care for the elderly, and I feel it is important that we do our utmost to reactivate these people so that we can work with them to enable them to have as much contact with the family as possible. Unfortunately, today's still running covido measures in a certain way because of the safety and health of these people in those facilities limit in a certain way the complete, open possibility for these people to be visited, so that is something that I am watching, and I will be happy to see these things loosen up as soon as possible so that these visits are without any unnecessary restrictions, but to be safe. That, of course, is important. But I try and also actively communicate with individual organizations that protect seniors. I am in close cooperation with the entire Republic Council of Seniors, including its many regional representatives, so that these activities are really supported into this social life, including, for example, financial resources from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which we are doing. But, of course, then, we need to implement those steps that lead to the fact that, in general, we can create an active environment for the elderly. This means having a good background in individual types of services that help them. This is also linked to the financial allocation and the instruments that it launches this year, especially from the national recovery plan, but also from other financial sources, so that individual service providers that relate to seniors, whether they are those services that are provided on the ground at their home, but also those services that are provided by individual settlers, so that they are at a level, let's say, in the best domestic, humane environment. These are also things related to the quality of care for these people, their health condition, their mental condition. We are also trying to do all of these things within the possibilities that we have and which we see in our own way these days that it will be more complex on some budgetary issues to be fully fulfilled. But I will try to do this personally, because I see it as a person who is already part of that sandwich generation today, when on the one hand we have to manage care for our children as parents, but at the same time we also have to manage care for our parents or grandparents. So even in this area, our activities must be directed to try to help the middle generation in such a way that, for example, in the form of part-time jobs, greater support for caring people, so that we can create an environment that also helps to improve the quality of care for the elderly, the quality of their lives. The fact that these people are surrounded by their loved ones, that they can actively communicate with them, that they can have barrier-free approaches, these are all things that, from my point of view, are important in this complex of all measures to improve the lives of our seniors, and of course, one day in the future, and then our living conditions, when we are that age. So this is how I tried to answer, and I'm ready for a possible follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u104	Minister, thank you. Madam, do you have an additional question? No, thank you. We can therefore move on to another drawn in the framework of the interpelling, and this is Mr Marek Novák, who will interpel Mr Petr Gazdík, Minister of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Zlín Region, for which we were both elected to the Chamber of Deputies, has one public college, the University of Tomáš Bata in Zlín. Unfortunately, one of her faculties is going through a very strange process. I have been brought to the attention of citizens, and I must say that more, not just one. In the recruitment procedure, universities usually provide for the possibility of taking part in the entrance exam or part of it within a substitute period. This is common, not even for students to avoid illness. Such a substitute term makes sense especially in the exceptional circumstances of the pandemic, where one does not know whether he will be in isolation or quarantine for the second day or from hour to hour. However, even in such a situation, one of the faculties of our university does not allow substitute terms for applicants. It was the dean's decision. I think it conflicts not only with university regulations, but mainly with common sense. After all, who other than a public college should heed legislation and conduct admission procedures transparently and with equal conditions for all applicants? It is therefore not possible to reject the candidate who is in quarantine and not allow him an alternative term. I ask, Minister, if you do not have a report on similar practices from elsewhere, and therefore it is not a broader, more general phenomenon in our public universities, which we finance through public funds. Since education is your responsibility, I call on you to act immediately on your department of subordinate institutions in this matter. If you want more detailed information, I'd be happy to give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u106	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. I state that Minister Gazdík is duly excused. So we can move on to the next draw, which was to be Mr Lukáš Vlček in his interpelations to Minister Síkela, but the MP withdrew his interpelation. So the next person to interpel is Mr Patrik Nacher, who should interpel Mr Blažek. I see that Mr Nacher is not here, so we can proceed to the next one, which is Mr Kamal Farhan, who should interpel the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u107	Mr President, Mr absent Minister, before I intersect you in your absence, allow me to put my inquiry into context. Petr Fiala's government is trying to cut state insurance payments by 14 billion. It balances its state budget deficit with a public insurance deficit. In other words, if this happens, from my point of view, there will be a reduction in health care, a reduction in bonification, changes in the reimbursement of spa care. At this point, I would like to quote where you yourself are at the presentation of Act No. 592/1992 Coll. You write in the explanatory memorandum: "This will save state budget resources of 14 billion this year. The revenue of the public health insurance scheme will be reduced by the same amount, which would mean the full exhaustion of the basic health insurance fund this year without further delay." This means that the government is counting on basic funds to go to zero, in other words, from my point of view, to rip out the health insurance fund. And you didn't count on that yet - and no one was counting on it, of course - with a runaway crisis that would increase the extra cost of state insured people. And I ask you, Mr. absent finance minister, what amount of state insurance payments do you expect in the state budget for 2023, 2024 and in the years to come? And then I ask you, do you have any qualified estimates... [[Prime Minister, time's up.]] ... what will be the public health insurance deficit in 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u108	Thank you and give the floor to Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjur. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u109	Mr. Ambassador here, through the Vice-President, I would ask you not to panic and use words like to extort. I don't know where you got it, and what numbers, what dates warrant you to make such a strong and false statement. In the first debate, I said that when we dealt with health insurance companies, Mr. Health Minister, that at the end of January there were 56 billion in health insurance accounts, at the end of February it was 60 billion. From health insurance plans, and I think you know them, if you're a member of the Health Committee, Mr. Ambassador, it's easy to add up. This means that the estimate of the economic result is about 19 billion, but health insurance companies did not take into account inflation in their health insurance plans. First of all. Conservative estimate is that it's going to be 7 to 10 billion of increased income from health insurance. I don't suspect that you wouldn't understand, not really, the suggestive claim that refugees will bring new costs is true, but at the same time you have to say that they will become existing state insured people and pay for them. So you can't say that there's only going to be costs when income comes into that system, or you can, but it's not correct, it's not fair and it's foul because you know it because you know the health insurance system. None of us, not from the government, nor from the opposition, are able to estimate how many of these refugees are going to be. I hope we agree that we have to help them and we do, and no one is able to really estimate how much healthcare they will need. However, thanks to the rules that we have set, they will be state insured and the state will pay for them from the moment they register and receive the visa. And I don't want to argue, but I can't tell if it's neutral, budget deficit, or surplus, but I hope we agree that we have to take care of them, or we do, and so we have to. I have the expenses and income of health insurance and health insurance companies in recent years from 2000 to 2022 and 2019 is not so far away. That's what you and your movement ruled, and at that time, 72 billion were paid for as state insured people. Our proposal is that you so criticize and choose such unchoosy words, 125 billion in three years - that's an increase. I must repeat what you know again, there is no risk of a reduction in the quality or availability of medical care. Whoever says so is lying and deliberately causing panic. Two. The salary increases for paramedics will be paid and paid in full. There's no other way, and you know it again. That means I don't really understand what you're criticizing, except that you're from the opposition and you're supposed to be criticizing something. But you drew attention to an important question, and I completely agree with you, and these are payments for state insured people in the coming years. At this time, we are working intensively in cooperation with the Minister of Health and his team to prepare a valorisation formula for automatic valorisation in order to reduce, as far as possible, the political implications for this decision-making. We'll introduce him in the near future, and I'm sure we'll discuss this in detail at least on the health committee's soil. So at this point I really am not able to answer what payments will be in 2023, 2024 and 2025, however I am sure that by the end of the half of this year we will know the exact answers to your questions. And they're the right questions, no doubt they are. And if we agree on that valorization formula, it would be nice if we agreed with the opposition, then we could model it forward. However, the budget for 2023 will include budget projections for the years 2024 and 2025, which coincides with this government's functional period, and that is where we will find the answers. By the time we have an agreement on the working level, on what the valorisation formula should look like, we are certainly ready to debate the opposition at that point, we are already debating it with the professional public. [[President: Minister, also time.]] I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u110	Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u111	First of all, Minister, let me apologize to you because I missed you, and I thought you'd left. Secondly, we agree to help the Ukrajinec and they will be paid for as a state insured as soon as they enter the system of patience. I know, too. It's okay. Under our government, I haven't got the numbers in front of me right now, so I can't exactly argue in the last four or five years out of some 700 crowns of payment for state insured persons up to CZK 1,976 this year. So I didn't get an answer for those years, but in other words, you said it with the valorisation mechanism, so I'm satisfied. And if you tell me that maybe the valorisation mechanism will be introduced by your government, I don't know, in a few months, it will satisfy my answer. I guess that's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u112	Thank you. I see the Minister still wants to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u113	Yes, honourable Member, through Mr President, we will present this within a period of several weeks, not a few months, a few weeks. I have these payments ahead of me, and I understand that you can't have them, but between 2019 and 2020, it really went up by 26 billion, but the cost of covido was 13. I understand that there were extraordinary covido costs, and when I look at the curve, I hope that there will be no more covido costs, and that is why we can have a rational debate about the automatic valorisation formula. There's something else that's going to disrupt the process, which, I'm sure it was, we can agree on, but I think it's going to be a good thing if we agree on the valorization formula as well. And when something unexpected comes up, it's gonna have to be dealt with by some unexpected or quick measure. I don't think there's a dispute between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u114	Thank you. Please add another enrollment, which is Mr Radek Koten, who will intersect the Minister and Vice-President of the Government of Vít Rakušan. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I would have a question for the absent Minister of the Interior, by your means, regarding the signing of a contract with the European Union on any admission of economic migrants or other migrants, because unfortunately I receive quite a lot of letters from citizens of the Czech Republic, I cannot verify this in any way, so that is why I am asking the Minister whether it is true, if it is 3. 3. was or is it in Brussels to sign this treaty with the European Union here, and therefore whether the Czech Republic will be obliged to bring refugees from third countries, refugee camps in sub-Saharan Africa and so on, and whether this redistribution mechanism will apply to the Czech Republic too, and therefore whether it wants to harm the Czech Republic in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u116	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Since Prime Minister Vít Rakušan is duly excused, we can move on to the next one, and this is Mr Andrej Babiš, who will give an interview to the Minister of Environment Hubáčková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u117	Thank you. So, Madam Secretary, please, I want to tell you what to do with energy. You want to end the 2033 coal. Nonsense, we had 2038. The Green German Minister says they want to go back to coal and core. Unbelievable! So, please tell the Prime Minister to arrange the emission allowances. Now is the chance to change the MiFID directive, it has an impact on energy of 25 percent. Try to think about buying gas. Yes, you've privatized everything, and RWE has half-empty mags, 25 percent. Buy gas, rent it. A month of gas consumption, is that enough for you? Wrong. Minister Stanjura has left, so say hello to him, tell him that OKD will have 4.5 billion in accounts at the end of this year. So cancel OKD coal mining in 2022 and extend it to 2025. These are things that you should deal with quickly and where you have influence. And here I read the Prime Minister's second sentence, what you did for the people - nothing. What Minister Jurečka suggested, eleven pages of forms, help - ridiculous. So once again, you have enough money, fuel prices explode, you get tens of billions extra from excise tax and VAT. Give people the money back, okay? The pensions aren't yours, that's by law, 21 billion. You can forgive VAT as well as fuel, ceiling. You didn't do anything. You can stop energy prices, you could forgive VAT, you didn't do anything. So I'm here to advise you to wake up quickly, Green Deal is passé, the whole of Europe is changing, so try to do something too. So I'm asking you what you're gonna do because you didn't do anything. So the change is that... you took money from people and you don't want to give it to them. [[Mr. Ambassador, I've...]] And you're pretending they're not resources. It's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u118	Thank you. And since Minister Hubáčková is duly excused, we can move on to another interpeller, and this is Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, who will interpel the Minister Lipavský. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I am aware that Minister Lipavský is excused and that I will receive a written reply. Dear Minister, I am well aware of the current international situation, but I do not stop believing in the peaceful solution to the invasion of Ukraine and I am dealing with the topic of further development not only of international relations but also of the economy of the Czech Republic. For this reason, I am interviewing you on the preparation of the World Exhibition EXPO 2025 in Osaka. Exhibition EXPO is a possibility of direct promotion of the state, whether on the tourist side, but mainly industrial, research and business. The result is real contracts and cooperation, which will give back many times to the investments made in the implementation of participations. The success of the Czech Republic at world exhibitions is very important and it must be noted that Japan is an equal partner for our republic, even if it is one of the world powers. The Czech Republic is perceived as an important partner. The participation of the Czech Republic in EXPO in 1970, which also took place in Osaka, Japan, can be considered one of the most important presentations of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, success was overshadowed by the complex political situation and circumstances surrounding the Prague Spring and the invasion of troops into the country. I would like to skip another statement of reasons and move on to the question of not exceeding two minutes. I ask whether the Czech Republic will confirm or have already confirmed its participation and to what extent? I would also like to know the answer to the question about the development of preparations for this important event. The interest in the World Exhibition EXPO 2025 in Japan is huge and already most exhibition spaces are being discussed. I hope that we will participate and represent the Czech Republic with dignity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u120	Thank you, Madame, and since Minister Lipavský is duly excused, we can move on to the next person who has been drawn, and this is Mrs Jana Berkovcová, who will intersect Minister Petr Gazdík. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm turning to the absent Minister Gazdík. According to you, the government expects that up to half a million people from Ukraine can come to the Czech Republic. At this point, there are about hundreds of Ukrainian children in the Czech Republic who have left their country due to the war, and their numbers will increase rapidly. In front of Czech education there is a really big challenge to prepare for the flood of Ukrainian children. I know that it is not necessary to address the entry of these children into primary school immediately, the obligation to fulfil compulsory school attendance must be ensured, of course, only after the situation of the child and his parents has been resolved on the basis of the place of residence, material security and financial security. However, the first tens to hundreds of children are already applying to schools now, so I ask how our primary schools are prepared for the arrival of tens of thousands of Ukrainian children. I know that today the Ministry of Education methodology for the integration of Ukrainian pupils has been delivered to schools. It seems very general to me, but I believe that it will be gradually completed on the basis of suggestions and questions from schools. However, the key question is whether it will be possible to increase existing school capacities. And finally. Today I also learned about the Ukrainian One-Class project, in which classes are created for children taught in Ukrainian, taught by native speakers according to Ukrainian teaching materials, which, of course, means simplifying and mitigating this difficult situation for children. But I ask what the teaching of Czech is because there is a presumption that Ukrainian citizens will live here for a long time, and in that case, pupils will have to go to Czech schools anyway from September at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u122	Madam, thank you. Since Minister Gazdík is duly excused, we can move on to another interpelling, Mrs Balaštíková, who will interpel the Vice-President of the Government of Válek. And I merely note that the following Interpelling Mrs Ivana Mádlová has withdrawn her intervention, so please prepare Mr Síla. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u123	Hello, colleagues, Minister, in the face of the situation in Ukraine, we are increasingly aware that saving human lives and health cannot be without rescuers. But now they will have a very difficult journey to their profession. Even a few years ago, they had enough to graduate from the medical school, but after a change of law it is possible only at the university. For the Zlín Region, for which I was elected, it is a significant change that can have a major impact on the entire rescue service. While we do not have higher vocational schools of health in our region, we completely lack a university degree. Unfortunately, when someone is studying outside our country, they don't usually come back to us. Previously, the Zlín Region's Rescue Health Service received three graduates each year. The management of the regional ambulance is trying to agree with the Zlín hospital and the University of Tomáš Bata and the aim would be to expand the offer of the university field in the future to the rescue bachelor or master field. But the university doesn't count on it in the next few years. This profession is still needed more and more. The number of visits to patients is increasing, and the paramedic without a doctor is driving up to 85 percent. [[17.10 hours]] I ask you, Minister, whether you are considering a common strategy of your ministry with the Ministry of Education regarding the education of medical personnel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u124	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Válek. In the meantime, before the counter comes, I apologise for the meeting from 16 to 18.30 of Mr Smetana and, at the same time, I apologise to Mr Klíma until the end of the day for working reasons. I also apologise to Minister Síkela for today's meeting, from 18 a.m. to the end of the day, also for work reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u125	Both are true, Mr President. Thank you very much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam, you are absolutely right. Unfortunately, you're absolutely right. The trouble is, the devil is hiding in detail. The qualifications requirements, i.e. the professional qualifications of health professionals who provide care for the provision of emergency pre-hospital care, these are the ZZS paramedics, and in the provision of acute bed care intensive, i.e. bed care at AROs, ICUs, paramedics or some categories of paramedics - the education teamed up, we both know it was part of the reform. The following are included in the urgent income, and I will now sum up: professional qualifications are now exclusively acquired by a study in an accredited medical bachelor's field. For qualification training in the field of a diplomat medical paramedic at higher vocational schools it was possible to accept applicants for the last time in the school year 2018/2019. That's when the reform ended, and it wasn't just about this field, it was generally a trend that is everywhere in the world, just moving into bachelor's fields. Please note that this trend occurred in the Czech Republic some 25 years ago. Let's remember the Dutch model of health education, which I think was the Minister for Social Democracy to us then, but that's not the point - education in... as it's said, has shifted, bought it in Holland. I, therefore, allow me to remember, then he sat on the board of the Minister of Education, I was as a representative of the secondary schools of health, because at the school of Merhautův I taught then, I was a class teacher, even a deputy director for some time after the revolution - and at that time we argued that it was not entirely happy to make all high school students of high secondary studies a bachelor, but this was the way it turned out. Some disciplines - a radiological assistant - have had a lot of problems with this, but this is just a situation that we have to deal with. It's a reality, it's a trend all over the world to increase the qualifications of health workers. This is probably good because of the functioning of the system, but then it causes difficulties for some of the regions that you, Madame, have described very precisely. The Zlín Region is a good example of this. Due to the increase in the competences of health care paramedics and the independent exercise of the profession, there has been an independent exercise of the profession, exits are only realized by medical paramedics, as we know, there has been a shift in education to universities in the Bachelor's degree of education, it is not technically possible. The medical accreditation for the Bachelor's degree currently has eleven universities. Colleges, even though they are trained by health professionals, are part of the Ministry of Education, they have their deputy, and I have basically no way of interfering with this in any way other than having a discussion with colleagues from another department, and we will definitely be running it. That's also reality. On the subject of education of health professionals, ongoing inter-ministerial meetings are taking place. There is an inter-ministerial health board of health education with inter-ministert MŠMT. Specialized competence in the form of specialization education realized in the accreditation follow-up Master's Health Programme - the problem is that they must enter the program by bachelors, who are also health professionals, or by means of specialization training, but which is not open in general. Exactly as you said at the end: if there is a need for education in some parts of the Republic, we recommend that the regions as the founder of the ZZS negotiate qualification training with the university and apply for a new accreditation for the relevant field, which the Zlín Region did, and it turned out the way I did when I took care of the same thing with the previous headmaster and tried to accredit the field of radiological assistant, because I thought it would be good for this field to be accredited as a bachelor field in the Zlín Region. There was a high-quality chief of X-rays, Mr. Chief tesař, who worked for this Ph.D., the medical board was Dr. tesař, and yet I was unable to convince myself that this field was accredited. To this day, I think it's a mistake. I mean, in the minute I have left, I'm gonna try to be optimistic. I definitely want to continue to debate with the Ministry of Education about strengthening the emergence of these bachelors' disciplines in all universities so that they are available in each region - not only rescuers, but also other bachelors' disciplines that are necessary. Secondly, I would like to follow up on what previous ministers of good have done regardless of which side they were for, and I am counting on them by Adam Vojtěch, and that is that he would like us to have special-purpose subsidies, as it was for doctors entering the first years of medical schools, for non-medical professionals, because the problem he has is, above all, a lack of non-medical professionals. And that's why we should support non-medical disciplines and dental disciplines. And thirdly, I offer in this place that we will ride together, and not just the two of us, but all the Members of the Zlín Region, that we will go together to the hospital and to the university and try to convince them if there isn't time for us to accredit the medical disciplines after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u126	Minister, thank you. I wonder if the honourable Member has an additional question? He doesn't. We can move on to another interviewer, which is Mr. Mr. Force, who will interpel Mr. Vice-President of the War Government. Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u127	Thank you for the floor. [[He's browsing in his notes.]] It's coming. I'd like to interpel the Minister of Health. The former government of Andrej Babiš has repeatedly approached a one-time increase in the payment of state insured persons, due to the increasing cost of health care due mainly to the covideo pandemic. From 1. 6. 2020 was CZK 500 and from 1 January 2021 another CZK 200 to CZK 1,767. In the draft budget for 2022, which has not been approved, it then included a proposal for a further increase of CZK 200, i.e. to CZK 1,967, which is due until the end of June - I have this feeling - this year. From this date I have information that reduced payments are to be made for state insured persons, which is why I am asking. Last year, in their November coalition contract, government parties also signed up to increase and valorize payments for state insured persons, but in the published programme statement the government of Prime Minister Petr Fiala stated that this would happen by the end of the term of office. It seems that, despite all expectations and media statements, Fialův's people are not going to address the issue of financial stability in the health sector in the near future. Concerns about the conciliation process for 2023 and financial instability of the Czech health sector are key to this. This still remains the question of how predictable the system is at ever-increasing costs for the future in terms of finance. Now, my question. Can the Minister kindly state the date for the billing of national insurance payments? [[- Mr. Congressman...]] Will it really be at the end of the term? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u128	Thank you. Please, Minister Válek, if he wants to answer. I see you do, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u129	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, there is a clear answer to the clearly formulated question. It can, it's not that hard. I wouldn't want it to evoke in anybody's sense that this will mean the end of our term. Certainly not, it is very, very far away and will be hopeful all the time. That day you asked about will be Friday. The day is always easy to determine if the moon is not determined. The month will be March. It's the hardest thing to do for a year. It's gonna be this year. That means today's Thursday, tomorrow I'm going to submit to the members of the government a proposal to valorize payments for state insured people from next year. I am fully aware that the amount must be clear until the conciliation procedure is opened, and this is how I agreed with the Council of Providers. The Council of Providers, who are parties to the conciliation procedure, has fully agreed to this and I am very pleased that their approach has been helpful. [[17.20 hours]] Valorisation of payments for state insured persons is an endless story of Czech health care and is important not to make the absolute amount in the system high enough in that year, because many other factors then affect how the amount is used, but it is important to enable planning to increase health care in longer than one year horizons, which does not allow the current system. There are years of abundance that then lead to the use of the funds not completely rationally, and they are years poor, when there is a problem in the system. At present, the fundamental problem of the system is not poor quality health care, it is good quality, it is ensured throughout the year because it was part of the conciliation procedure last year, and there has been a clear definition of what will be paid, to what extent, and to which extent the insurance companies will keep it, and I am watching over it. Nor is the problem of the compensation decree for the last three months of last year, which is currently being negotiated, argued. I have informed, or my deputy, about when the compensation decree for October, November, December will be completed. There is not even a problem with the possible compensatory decree for the first two months of this year, because in the middle of this year, the economic Deputys, whom I have made an advisory group, are representatives of both faculty and regional and urban hospitals - those who have successfully managed in the past five years - will prepare a proposal and make an accurate estimate as to whether a compensatory decree will be necessary. If so, I will then appear before the Chamber of Deputies and, of course, with some concerns before the Senate and propose an amendment to the Compensation Act so that I can issue a compensatory decree next year to compensate for January and February if necessary. There is no problem with the payment for refugees, for those in the war, in the very cruel war that is taking place today in Ukraine, when the victim is the civilian population, women, men, so those women, children who must seek help from other countries, so they will also have full health care, the state will pay for them in full as the state insured. Their care will not be absolutely at the expense of the care of the Czech people, but I am aware that there is a need to develop health care in some way, because new central medicines will be needed, that new challenges will be needed, and that is why on Friday I will submit to the Ministers a proposal for an amendment or a paragraph for this Act on reimbursements for state insured persons, which should valorise as of 1 January. It is based on quite complex mathematical models discussed so far with insurance companies and with the Ministry of Finance. I would like to discuss this paragraph across the political spectrum, I would also like to discuss it, of course, with the Council of Providers and with other Stakeholders, so that we can reach some consensual model, which is likely to copy the average wage, and whose - very simply - aim should be that, in the years when it will stand to prosper and it will rise, and now don't take my word for it, the remuneration for the state insured will increase, and in the years of the poor, when the average wage will be the same or it will fall, the remuneration will not decrease. I will present this model on Friday, and I hope that the Chamber of Deputies will receive it for approval as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u130	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if he wants an additional question? He doesn't want to. We can proceed to the next interviewer, Mr Radek Koten, who will interpel the Minister, Vice-President of the Government of Vít Rakušan. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u131	Thank you, Mr President. And so today for the second time, dear absent minister, you vědět Rakušan, through you. I wanted to ask: of course, humanitarian aid is very important, because citizens fleeing Ukraine, especially mothers with children, so we have to help them, but I wanted to ask them how security measures are handled, because this government is cursing security, so, given that there is a war conflict in Ukraine, there are quite a lot of weapons among people, even there are also loosely distributed, I wanted to ask how the inspection at the Vyšné Nemecký border crossing takes place, and then in our country, whether it is therefore addressed this risk that refugees might be brought here in some personal baggage weapons, how the inspection is carried out and how thorough it is, because I know that in such a suggestion, many of the police forces can escape, and I wanted to draw attention to this situation, because our security forces should prevent such things and the inspection should be really thorough. I still wanted to ask if there was any identification on the basis of passports or any personal documents of those people, or whether it was only the fact that the person was going to come there, he said he needed help, and therefore he didn't have anything on him, so if in any other way the identity was being verified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since Prime Minister Vít Rakušan is duly excused, we can move on to the next interpeller, and this is Mr Patrik Nacher, who will interpel Mr Jozef Síkela's Minister of Industry. And allow me to take the moment to apologize for the meeting of Mrs Jana Berkovcová, from 18:00 a.m. onwards, as well as to apologise to Mr Andrej Babiš, for the rest of the working day for working reasons. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u133	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, just a short time before the previous interpellation to the mass lawsuits. I'll give it to you next time, because Minister Blažek was excused, he wasn't here, so I wouldn't be talking to myself, but the Minister of Industry is here, so I'm gonna use the interpelations I have if they're all gonna get their turn. The first concerns information, which is no longer a week old, as I had it prepared - because the interpelations are constantly moving as we are drawn up - but it is a few weeks ago when consumer organisations received information from the Director of the Department of Trade and Consumer Legislation, Jan Strakoš, at the videoconferencing you organized at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, that given the budgetary provisional, which I assume will change in a week, it is not possible to say how high subsidies will be for consumer protection this year. So I would like to ask - as the first question - both the organisations that fall under the MIT, under the consumer subsidy programmes, how they will be financed for the rest of the year and how the financing of the previous three months will actually take place retroactively, because, as you can see, the topic of either telecommunications or energy-smuggling or execution, a gracious summer and so on, everything that the various consumer organisations do, so from 1. 1. the bag broke with it. I suppose you, as a minister, have at least as many e-mails as I do, so I have to say, that's a record number of suggestions from citizens. So that's the first question, and according to the answer, I'm going to follow up on that in the supplementary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u134	Mr. Ambassador, thank you and I give the floor to the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkel. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u135	Mr President, Member, honourable Members, I would like to answer the question about the subsidies the Ministry of Industry and Trade provides to consumer organisations. First of all, I want to stress that I am aware of the importance that consumer organisations hold in this society. Therefore, our Ministry has also supported them in the long term and has therefore announced a subsidy procedure at the beginning of July last year to support projects of consumer organisations for 2022. [[17.30 hours]] However, in addition to the importance of these organisations, I would also like to emphasise the situation that exists not only in the Czech Republic but also in the world. First the state had to deal with the cod crisis, then the energy crisis, and in both of these crises there was a large debt of the Czech Republic. Now, as we all know, our state is very much involved in helping Ukraine, which is facing Russian aggression. That's why I'm going to go to the answer. We have currently suspended the subsidy procedure, but this does not mean that the Ministry of Industry and Trade would not want to continue this year with intensive cooperation with consumer organisations. However, this cooperation needs to be re-evaluated in the light of the above-mentioned calls in terms of what projects we will focus on this year and how our limited resources are allocated effectively. The support of consumer organisations, whose activities I appreciate very much, must therefore also be assessed by this optics. I would like to assure you all that we will consider very carefully which projects and how we will support them. For example, it seems to me that the state could work with these organisations to help tens of thousands of Ukrainian refugees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u136	Minister, thank you, and I see that Mr Nacher has an additional question. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u137	Thank you for the honest, open answer, Minister, but it actually shows that consumer protection, which has dealt with the government's programming statement in just one paragraph, is, I apologize for that, such a Cinderella, because when you look at how you admitted - I thank you for that - you suspended subsidies to consumer protection organisations. At the same time, I would like to remind you that there is a large decline in the draft budget for out-of-court bodies, which deal with consumer protection and which fall under the MIT, such as ČTÚ and ERÚ. That means combined with that, that's from 1. 1. there are adopted legislative changes to increase consumer protection, but he will not have anyone to enforce them, he will not have anyone to control them, he will not have anyone to advise those people. That means we're gonna change the legislation here, but we're gonna leave these people behind. I'm sorry, I understand that Ukraine is here, we're all helping, I suppose, but these are long-term things, and then the moment we eliminate the energy industry and they reincarnate into something else, there's no one left to help these people because those organizations have no one to advise, out-of-court authorities... [[Your time has passed. Thank you.]] They won't have a way to deal with these things. So much for my point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u138	Thank you and I see that the Minister still wants to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u139	I am very sorry, Mr Member, but I do not know how you import from what I said that we will not support consumer protection and that they will not be protected. I merely said that we have suspended some of the programmes, that we will pursue this topic and that we will selectively choose those we consider to be the ones we want to support at this point. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u140	I thank the Minister and we can go to the next one who was drawn, it was Mr Babiš, who apologized. That is why we are moving on to the next, which is Mr Kamal Farhan, who will interpel Mr. Vice-President of the War Government. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u141	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have already partially received the answer to the question I wanted to ask you. Once again, because I had little time, I would repeat what the Ministry writes in the explanatory memorandum to Law No. 592/1992 to its amendment. I quote: "It will save state budget resources of 14 billion. The same amount will be reduced by the revenue of the public insurance system" - and now an important sentence - 'which would mean the full exhaustion of the basic health insurance fund this year without further delay'. Those aren't my words, those are the words from the explanatory memorandum submitted by the Ministry. I had the question divided into both Minister Stanjura, who responded to it with the answer I wanted from you, when he actually said that the valorisation mechanism would be submitted in a matter of weeks, I thank you for this. I assume the Ministry of Health is in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. I welcome this, I consider it a great challenge for your government. So this question was, when's the valorization mechanism going to be-- we learned that it's going to be in the order of weeks. I suppose you'll answer the same question. And maybe I'd just add that - I didn't get the answer: Do you have any estimate for this year what will be the deficit, or at least an estimate of public health insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u142	Mr. Ambassador, thank you, and I ask Minister Válek for a reaction if he is interested in it. Yes. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u143	Now I do not know - thank you, Mr President - now I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members, if I will answer correctly, or if I have understood the question correctly. Deficit this year should not be. He currently has health insurance - and now we both know because, after all, you worked at the Ministry and you know the system at least as well, if not better than I do - that there is a difference between individual insurance companies and it is not possible to fully compare the General Health Insurance Company and some branch insurance companies, and it is true that those reserves differ from the insurance company. However, there should be no deficit this year. But there is one crucial thing that has not fallen here and which I would like to mention. Last year, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a law on the reimbursement of medicines, which basically simplifies that insurance companies have to pay maximum fees for medicines. Deputy Minister Šmehlík was then assigned to work together with the Ministry of Health and with the SÚKL new maximum remuneration and was based on the reduction of maximum remuneration for those who, let's say, do not move deep enough in the system - I will explain the reasons. A few years ago, the Chamber of Deputies debated so-called vomit. Those returns were something that de facto said that the hospital would buy medicine for a medical device for a different amount than the insurance company - usually lower - and the return to the system. And now, of course, there was a debate as to whether the return really goes into the system, whether it's used on salaries or what's going on with the return. I think the Constitutional Court even attacked it. On the contrary, insurance companies did not pay the maximum remuneration to all alike, there were differences, and there were differences between hospitals last year, although the payments should be maximum. So in a very simple way: the hospital, which, say, had a better negotiating position, bought drugs cheaper than the hospital that had - I simply say medicine, but I mean any of the medical devices - than the hospital, which, say, had a worse negotiating position. The insurance company was supposed to pay everyone the maximum remuneration, so the one who had a better negotiating position should have had a greater return profit and had it in the form of a refund, but the same payment of maximum remuneration was not the same for all hospitals. The Chamber of Deputies responded very correctly to the Constitutional Court's decision, ordered, if the maximum remuneration is, the insurance undertaking must pay the maximum remuneration to each provider. Unfortunately it didn't happen b - and now I don't blame Deputy Minister Šmehlík, SÚKL, I don't blame the Ministry - because we had covid here, there was some dramatic situation, there were other priorities, but it just happened that the maximum payments didn't go down. And that needs to be emphasized for, say, a big hospital -- which I don't mean just a faculty hospital, but a big hospital -- the difference that brought it means plus about 50 million a month to the hospital's budget, which is about half a billion a year. And, of course, those hospitals didn't count on that amount because they were counting on the maximum remuneration to be reduced. I would like money not to go into the health insurance system in the form of a refund, i.e. it does not go into the system in the form of a refund and it is not dependent on how the commercial deputy is able to negotiate the remuneration, but to go there only from the health insurance. That is why I asked - I can do nothing else - through Deputy Minister Rögner's insurance company to consider immediately the work on reducing the maximum remuneration, which should bring savings to insurance companies. [[17.40 hours]] It is absolutely legitimate, because I believe that it should be in the interests of all citizens, insurance companies, but also of us, so that maximum fees for medicines are as low as possible, but there are no surcharges and all medicines that are on the European market are available on the Czech market. There's room for this debate here, and that's the unknown I don't know. However, I am absolutely sure if they do not valorize from next year's remuneration for state insured people, that there will be a deficit in the system. That is, if the question was made when there is no valorisation, if there is no change and the mechanism, whether there will be no deficit next year, yes, I believe that there is a risk, and this is how the Ministry of Health calculations are based, even if the deficit should not have and will not have any impact on the quality of health care next year, but in some way it would be difficult to complete the conciliation procedure successfully. That is why I want to set up the valorisation parameters for the next years, including next year, as part of the bill that reduces the remuneration for state insured people. So I have no concerns about this year and I have no concerns about the quality of care even next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u144	Minister, thank you. I wonder if Mr Farhan still has an additional question? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u145	Minister, thank you. We both know that the material is very complex, and I'm not even able to respond here in one minute to every word you've said. I have two such observations. The first is that I am satisfied that the government will prepare a valorisation mechanism within a few weeks. That was said here, and that is a satisfying answer for me, and thank you for it. The second thing is about the deficit. I know he's not gonna end up with a deficit because you're saying in the base fund and in the explanatory report that he's gonna be exhausted, he's gonna go to zero. And then, in some way, the situation, whether it's this year or another, has to be addressed, because otherwise those insurance companies would get into a deficit, they wouldn't have anything to take from, there could be a delay in health care payments and so on. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u146	Thank you. I see the Minister still wants to respond. Minister, you have the floor. Mrs Balaštíková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, it would be suicide to argue with you about professional matters, and I'm not going to do that in public. I completely agree that it is very difficult here to predict the development of money on funds. I am just pointing out that, in addition to payments for state insured persons and valuations, it is also necessary to count on what will be the collection of insurance premiums, which is totally unknown and estimates vary in percentage terms. Another unknown is precisely the payment of the reduction in maximum payments for medicines, and there I would very much ask across the political spectrum for maximum support for pressure to reduce those payments within a reasonable range. I understand the returns, because I think it's an important tool for hospital managers to negotiate, have a strong negotiating position, but there must be some pattern in it that is common in Holland or Belgium, there must be some order in it. The third unknown, which I did not mention, but which exists, is generally the management of insurance companies, which says that there is also some money on other funds, including depreciation funds and construction funds, so here we need to discuss at all what the outcome will be, and we will find that out in the middle of the year. For this reason, I underline and underline boldly what you said, Mr Member, that the debate on how to valorise and what to bounce off next year will be very complicated, but I believe that we both know that it is extremely important and that the debate will need to be conducted in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate in parallel, because there will not be much room for folk creativity, but it will be a consensus that will lead not only to the benefit of the Czech health services, but above all to the benefit of patients. And here I believe that there will be total agreement between all Members, not only doctors but also non-medical professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u148	Minister, thank you. The next is Mrs Balaštíková, who should interpel Mr Gazdík. I do not see a Member here, so we can go to the next one, which is Mr Radek Koten, who will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u149	Mr Minister, Mr President, let me ask you a question which concerns immediately every citizen of this Republic, and these are energy prices. It can be said that the rise in energy prices is now quite unpredictable, but for this very reason I would like to ask you whether at least the energy that our manufacturing companies consume, our citizens, could not make an exception in essence, as in Slovakia, that the energy that was produced in the Czech Republic would not be sold via the stock exchange, of course outside the surpluses that we could trade on the stock exchange, but the energy that would be intended for the citizens of the Czech Republic and for companies in the Czech Republic, would not be traded via the stock exchange, and thus we could reduce the price of electricity for our citizens. I also wanted to ask how the government will deal with a possible gas outage or gas supply in the Czech Republic, and whether you have a crisis scenario prepared for it to happen, so how will companies actually have this outage compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u150	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. I give my word to Minister of Industry and Trade Síkel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u151	Mr President, Mr Koten, honourable Member, I think I will answer the second question first, because it will be a quicker part of the answer, and I will, in fact, also follow up on the interpelling of the Prime Minister, who has already responded to the fact that at this point we have sufficient gas supplies at European Union level. I attended the extraordinary meeting of the Energy Council this week. We are dealing with alternative options, alternative gas imports in case of interruption or limitation of gas supply. We don't have that kind of signal at the moment. I consider this part of the answer or the second part of the question to be settled for the moment. As far as energy trading is concerned, I must, of course, reiterate that the Czech Republic is an integral part of the West and the European Union, and thus also a common European energy market. The Czech Republic does not face current problems alone, we all face them together as the European Union. The common approach and coordination between the Member States are the cornerstone of our joint cooperation. Thanks to Europe, we are not buying gas in Russia, but on the Rotterdam Stock Exchange. The European energy market has been created for a period of peace, that is simply reality. Today, as a result of the Ukrainian crisis, we see a sharp rise in commodity prices and a huge increase in the so-called risk premium. The European electricity market is organised in such a way that the resulting price for each business hour indicates the variable costs of the last most expensive resource necessary to cover demand at a given time. So today it is typically a gas plant. The variable cost is the price of gas, coal and CO2 emission allowances, if applicable. That is why countries with a stronger share of gas in electricity production are experiencing even higher prices than in the Czech Republic, for example. Measures against global price growth cannot therefore be dealt with in isolation only at the level of the Czech Republic, but must be the solution agreed in the European Council or the Energy Council. [[17.50 hours]] Some options have emerged from previous negotiations that Member States may apply to support final customers. Above all, we want this support to be directed towards household customers where there are the most serious social impacts, because a large part of them are actually facing energy poverty. The government has modified the rules for obtaining a housing allowance, the amount of which is now better reflected in rising energy prices. For people in the most difficult situation, we have prepared extraordinary immediate assistance. In the future, we are considering introducing a so-called social tariff for the most vulnerable customers or the introduction of a special entity to supply energy to these customer groups. However, in the field of aid to enterprises or industries, the Government has more limited scope, since only such support measures which comply with State aid rules and international subsidy rules can be applied, do not distort competition or lead to fragmentation of the internal market. Small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to apply to the National Development Bank for a loan with a state guarantee of up to CZK 2 million to cover increased energy costs. In addition to this company, with energy costs exceeding 10 per cent of the total operating costs, they will be able to obtain a loan of between CZK 1 million and CZK 10 million and a State guarantee of up to 80 per cent of the principal. Similarly, the MIT is considering helping large companies that have energy-intensive operations due to the high cost of emission allowances, in the form of compensation for indirect costs. Our support will be targeted, addressed and focused on the most affected groups of customers due to budget tension. We do not see flat-rate measures such as transfers of RES payments, gross reduction of VAT for all, and similarly we do not see as effective from the point of view of the state budget. In the end, all of us, even the most needy, would pay for these temporary reliefs anyway. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is currently preparing to amend energy legislation in two steps...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u152	Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid I have to interrupt you, too. It is fair to all, but there will be a possibility in the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u154	If we have an additional question, Mr. Ambassador, do you have it? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u155	Dear Minister, thank you for the answers, but the basic thing that bothers me is that we are actually giving all the electricity we produce in Czech power plants, which were built often before 1989, on the Rotterdam Stock Exchange. I would understand if the 47 percent consumed by the Czech Republic were left behind and the rest, 53 percent, sold on the stock exchange at the highest possible price. I would understand. But I don't understand why a Czech citizen is supposed to pay a price that is somewhere on the Rotterdam Stock Exchange when we are self-sufficient in electricity production, but on the contrary, we still have overproduction. So why are our citizens supposed to pay these large sums in this situation and, on the other hand, ask for beggars somewhere in the welfare office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u156	Thank you for the follow-up question and I see that the Minister still wants to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u157	We are part of an existing system and I have already stated - and it is actually the answer to your question - that we are considering introducing a social tariff for the most vulnerable customers in the longer term or introducing a special entity that would supply energy to these customer groups. That's the so-called single buyer concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u158	Thank you. The next person to interpel is Mr Patrik Nacher, who will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade of Jozef Síkela. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u159	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, one more comment on what we were discussing here. The moment the ERÚ, ČTÚ has a smaller budget and you stop subsidies for some consumer organisations, so of course consumer protection will be provided less, especially in contrast, when there are more questions and suggestions. That means the scissors are gonna open. So much for that backwards. But now my question concerns the price of energy. I'll follow up on what my colleagues said. We've already talked about this, so I won't be around much. We are energy-sufficient, yet we have more energy than we do in those countries where energy is imported. So I basically have two questions. First, whether the MIT or the ERU made a benchmark, or if so, with which result. What is the regulatory procedure in neighbouring V4 countries where the price of electricity is a circus at half our prices. That's the first question. The second question is how many megawatt hours of electricity produced in the Czech Republic will be sold annually on the Leipzig Stock Exchange and at what average price for one megawatt hour and how many megawatt hours and at what average price for one megawatt hour will be purchased for end-users on the Leipzig Stock Exchange. Maybe even this, if the numbers here sound on the microphone, it'll also be the answer to a whole series of questions that we all get in our mail at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u160	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. I hereby give the floor to Minister of Industry and Trade Síkel. I'm just specifying that we're gonna have to quit at 6:00, so you don't have five full minutes, but a little less, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u161	So I'm not going back to the previous question, because I think I've exhausted it. The increase in energy prices is a result of a number of factors, particularly unexpectedly rapid economic recovery after cod restrictions, a significant increase in global demand for natural gas, particularly in Asia, with the resulting rapid increase in prices, partly adverse climatic conditions, which have reduced in many European countries the amount of electricity produced from renewable sources. There are a number of factors. The liberalized energy market brings with it for final customers not only the choice of supplier, but also the responsibility for the result of this choice. The price of the energy offered is a strong stimulus, but it should not be the only criterion whereby end customers, whether household, small-scale or large industrial customers, choose their suppliers. Electricity and gas prices are today in Europe and therefore strongly correlated with us. High volatility and sensitivity to any other reports can be expected in the shorter supply horizon, both in terms of gas supplies, gas operations, current weather outlooks and the development situation in Ukraine. In winter, demand for energy is highly dependent on temperature. In the Czech Republic for electricity it is about 1 per cent per degree Celsius and 3 per cent per degree Celsius for gas. In the case of gas, prices on short-term markets are a determining factor, especially in the Dutch Title Transfer Facility. The exception is long-term contracts with producers. The long-term contract strategy is advantageous at rising prices, on the other hand short-term and spot-based strategies at declining prices. The long-term decline in gas prices on spot markets in the previous period has led to a significant proportion of gas traders either recovering from long-term contracts or adjusting them in such a way as to duplicate their price on spot markets. Therefore, their positive impact at times of price increase is only limited in some European countries, among which the Czech Republic, whose gas industry has been privatised for two decades, is not one of them. Higher energy prices, in particular electricity and gas, gradually affect all customers with how they will gradually end fixation or validity of existing contracts. The fiercest, basically shocking increase occurred with customers who found themselves in the last instance supply mode. These customers faced virtually instant revaluation of all their consumption at current wholesale prices. On the contrary, customers who have a credit supplier and have concluded contracts with a longer fixation for two to three years do not have to feel any price increase at this moment or the nearest future, depending on whether the supplier has the right to terminate the contract and whether he will exercise that right. [[18.00 hours]] The possibilities of the State or the Energy Regulatory Authority to influence energy prices are limited, but we are working hard on an amendment to the Energy Act, which would give the Energy Regulatory Authority more responsibilities, competences. In the case of electricity, the regulated component of the price is between 40 and 50 per cent, the gas is then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u162	Minister, I must interrupt you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u163	... the regulated component is significantly minor and is only 20 to 25 per cent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u164	We've fulfilled the time. It is 18 o'clock, and before I pass the proceedings on to the President, I just apologize for the sitting of today's meeting between 18 and 21 o'clock and, respectively, the end of the day, Mr Faltýnek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-012-111.u165	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are following up on the item number in our programme.
