ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-007-072.u1	72. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Extradition between the Czech Republic and Australia (Canberra, 17 February 2022) /German press 200/ - first reading The proposed proposal should be made by the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek, but he is absent and excused, which is why Minister Kupka will represent him for the government. I ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-007-072.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the Government's proposal. The absence of a bilateral treaty constitutes a limit to mutual cooperation between the two states in the field of extradition. This problem arose as a result of the negative position taken by Australia after the division of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic on the further mutual application of the Treaty between the Republic of Czechoslovakia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland on the mutual extradition of criminals from 1925 as a bilateral contractual basis for extradition. After that date, cases were reported where the perpetrators avoided the stay in Australia of criminal prosecution for crimes committed in the Czech Republic, but Australia refused to issue them until a bilateral international treaty was negotiated. Since 2008, the Australian Party has admitted the issue of persons to the Czech Republic on a non-contractual principle. This also allows the law of the Czech Republic on the basis of assurance of reciprocity. It is thus possible to say that there has been some improvement, which has subsequently been reflected in two cases of publication into the Czech Republic. The conclusion of the bilateral agreement with Australia will lead to further improvement of bilateral relations in the area under review, which is in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic. The implementation of the contract will fall within the competence of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior as regards communication through the Interpol National Headquarters, this is the Directorate for International Police Cooperation, the Police Presdia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as regards communication by diplomatic means. The costs associated with the implementation of the contract will be covered by the budget chapters of these departments, the impact on the state budget being insignificant. Thank you for your attention and please give a favourable assessment of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-007-072.u3	Thank you for submitting this proposal and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Jaroslav Bžoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-007-072.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The extradition agreement between the Czech Republic and Australia, the proposal of which is submitted to Parliament to give its consent, is negotiated as an instrument of international law which lays down the legal conditions for the extradition of persons for prosecution or for the execution of prison sentences. Its purpose is to ensure better and more effective judicial cooperation in the field of extradition. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ 10 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, which is implemented by the provisions of § 3 para. 2 of Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as amended, priority over other legal provisions, this is over the provisions of Act No. 104/2013 Sb., respectively before the provisions of Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure. [[11.40 hours]] The absence of a bilateral bilateral treaty constitutes a limit to mutual cooperation between the two states in the field of extradition. International obligations for mutual extradition in the draft contract are limited to certain types of crime and result from other international agreements to which both the Czech Republic and Australia are parties, such as the 1988 United Nations Convention against the illicit trafficking of psychotropic substances. The contract negotiated shall create legal conditions for the extradition of persons and shall allow for a better and more effective way of conducting criminal prosecutions by the competent authorities of both Contracting States, as well as the subsequent enforcement of decisions in the criminal field. The rules of the contract will be applied by the courts, state prosecutors, Ministry of Justice and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic will also participate in the implementation of requests for extradition. I hereby ask you to assign this contract to the Foreign Committee. And, as the Minister has already said, this treaty is very important from the point of view that, even today, some of the convicted convicts are hiding from extradition in Australia, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-007-072.u5	Thank you, too. So I am now opening up a general debate in which I do not see anyone logged in. I'm asking if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate? No, I'm done. Final words, Mr. Speaker and Mr. rapporteur, I assume you will not want to take advantage of them? [[No.]] We can vote on the motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone. I am opening the vote on the presentation of this press for discussion to the Foreign Committee. [[Who's in?]] Anyone against it? Voting number 97, registered 150 Members and Members, for 127, against none. The proposal was ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs. No further proposal has been put to the vote, which is why I am ending this item and thanking both the Minister and the rapporteur for the presentation. I note that Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will vote with replacement card number 29. Opening item discussion number
