ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with ID cards or tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 25th meeting on 19 May of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Milada Voborská and a Member of Ondřej kolář. I'm gonna go on and ask if anyone else has a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on identifying the verifiers of this meeting, Mrs Milada Voborská and Mr Ondřej kolář. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number one, 134 Members and Members signed in for 130, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Milada Voborská and Mr Ondřej kolář, as verifiers of the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members requested to apologise for their absence to the proceedings: Pekarová Adamová Markéta - working grounds throughout the day, Adámková Věra within 17 hours - working reasons, Bernard Josef full day - family reasons, Flek Josef whole day - working reasons, Hájek Martin whole day - medical reasons, Šimon Šimon whole day - medical reasons, Jáč Ivan whole day - working reasons, Levko Jarmila until 15.30 hours - working reasons, Navrátil Jiří from 16 to 19 hours - working reasons, Okamura Hayato whole day - foreign travel, Potůčková Lucie whole day - medical reasons, Šimek David within 16 hours for working reasons, Štolpa David whole day - medical reasons, Wenzl Milan whole day - medical reasons - medical reasons, Ženíšek Martin whole day - international travel. The following ministers apologize from the members of the government: Prime Minister Fiala Petr all day - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel all day - working reasons, Gazdík Petr from 16 to 17.30 for work reasons, Jurečka Marian all day - foreign travel, Langšádlová Helena all day - foreign travel, Síkela Jozef all day for health reasons and Šalomoun Michal until 16 hours for work reasons. The honourable Member, honourable Members, on 19 May this year the President of the Chamber of Deputies, by decision number 22 on the basis of a proposal from the Government, declared a state of legislative emergency for the period from 19 May 2022 to 20 June 2022. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a government bill on further measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, the so-called Lex Ukraine, House Press 221; it is also a government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms of business and performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the so-called Energy Act, House Press 225. By Decisions 23 and 25, the President of the Chamber of Deputies decided to discuss these government proposals in a short session, ordered the House Press to discuss 221 of the Security Committee and set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 31 May 2022 within 12 hours, followed by the House Press 225 to the Economic Committee and set it an unstoppable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 2 June 2022 by 8.30 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I'm opening the debate. I see no one is reporting for the debate. If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. We will take the vote. Before I make the motion for a resolution, I will call on my colleagues from the lobby. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 167 Members and Members signed up, for 165, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed to the draft agenda of the 25th meeting, as stated on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. We propose: 1. Put a new item on the agenda of the 25th meeting, namely the draft law, which was tabled in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency. This is the House press 225, a government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the so-called Energy Act, shortened negotiations. [[14.10 hours]] 2. I would also like to inform you that on 13 May 2022, the Government submitted a Government proposal to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, pursuant to Rule 109j of the Rules of Procedure, to express its prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation No. 216/2013, on the electronic publication of the Official Journal of the European Union, House print 223-E. By decision of President No 24, this press was ordered to discuss the Committee on European Affairs and the deadline was set by 14 June 2022. The Grémium proposes, on the basis of a proposal by the President, to include this House's press in the draft agenda of the 25th meeting, which will be discussed after the deadline, i.e. in the second week from 14 June 2022. 3. The Grémium also proposes to sort out the second reading in the following order: point 2, House print 30, Government bill on the services of video sharing platforms; point 6, House print 72, veterinary law; point 5, House print 57, amendment of the Environmental Agriculture Act; point 3, House print 55, limitation of the impact of plastic products on the environment; point 4, House print 56, limitation of the impact of plastic products on the environment - related; point 12, House print 167, Government proposal of the Act on medical devices; Point 13, House press 168, Government bill on medical devices - related; paragraph 11, House print 161, Amendment to the Act on the Protection of Designation of Origin; paragraph 10, House print 151, Amendment to the Act on Plant Health Care; paragraph 9, House print 138, Amendment to the Act on the Protection of Hops; paragraph 7, House print 73, Amendment to the Act on Medicines; and point 8, House Press 107, Government Bill on Product Market Supervision; with paragraphs 10, 9, 7 and 8 being discussed only during the second week of the 25th meeting, this is from 14 June 2022. In addition, it is proposed that the items from the Act block - first reading be listed in the following order: paragraph 18, House printing 150, Government draft Act on the entry and import of certain cultural goods; paragraph 25, House printing 206, Amendment to the Law on Inland Navigation; paragraph 28, House printing 216, Amendment to the Act on Road Infrastructure; paragraph 26, House printing 207, Amendment to the Civil Aviation Act; paragraph 24, House printing 203, Amendment to the International Cooperation Act on Taxation Administration; paragraph 30, House printing 218, Government Bill on the coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office; paragraph 31, House printing 219, Government Bill on the coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office - Related; paragraph 21, House printing 177, Government Bill repealing the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales. 4. We also propose the following procedure for this week: today, this is on Tuesday, 31 May, the opening of the meeting, paragraph 1, House Press 221, the Government's draft law on further measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops - the accelerated negotiations. Then discuss points from the block of Laws - second reading, that means House prints 30, 72, 57 and others. Tomorrow, it is Wednesday, 1 June, to open negotiations on paragraph 11, House press 161, amendment to the Act on the Protection of Designations of Origin - second reading, and then to continue discussing points from the Act block - first reading. At 12 o'clock on Wednesday, we propose to firmly include paragraph 29, House press 217, a government bill on special reasons for stopping execution and amending the related law - first reading, pursuant to § 90 para. 2. Thursday 2 June: since paragraph 140, the Government's response to written interpelations is not fulfilled at 14:00 today, we will not address it. We would start negotiations at 9 a.m., paragraph 136 - a proposal to determine the amount of remuneration to members of the Czech Technical Agency Audit Board for 2021, House document 785. Then we would continue the points from the block of the Law - first reading. It is also proposed at 10 o'clock to include a firmly new point, namely the House press 225, the amendment to the Energy Act, the shortened negotiations. At 18 o'clock, i.e. after the oral questioning, we would continue to discuss the House press 225 if it was not negotiated within 13 o'clock, or we would continue to discuss points from the Law block - first reading. On Friday, 3 June, we propose to discuss point 3, House Press 55, the Government's proposal for a law on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment - second reading, and point 4, House Press 56, Government's proposal for a law on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment - related, second reading. Then we propose to continue by discussing further points from the Act block - second reading or points from the Act block - first reading, always in the order of unnegotiated points from the previous days. At 13.30 we propose to include firmly a block of voting points, namely point 108, a proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, paragraph 109, a proposal for the election of a member of the Council of the Czech Press Office, point 110, a proposal for the election of a member of the Council of the Czech Television for a vacancy with a term of office until 27 May 2026, and point 111, a proposal for the election of members of the Council of the Czech Television. That's all on my side. We have therefore heard the proposal from the Gremium, and now I ask you, Members, to comment on the proposal for a programme. Mr Tomio Okamura, President of the 25th meeting, has applied for the floor with priority rights. Please. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Yes, Mr. Chairman, we will ensure peace. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. If you have important conversations, please move them into the foyer. One more time, please, calm down. Prime Minister, is that enough? Thank you, Members and Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose new points on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies on behalf of the SPD, and as the first item in today's Chamber of Deputies meeting, I would like to propose a point entitled Petr Fiala's Government is indifferent to the poverty of citizens. So just to make a note of it, Madam Vice-President, to repeat it correctly when we vote. Petr Fiala's government is indifferent to the poverty of citizens. [[14.20 hours]] And now I'd like to justify it. In the SPD's view, it is necessary to help our citizens and at the same time end their large-scale tourism for Ukrainian migrants. According to the current CVVM survey, the government of Petr Fiala from ODS has only 35 percent of its citizens' trust. According to a STEM/MARK survey, 73 percent of our citizens also think that the government is not helping them to fight the expensive, and I agree with these citizens. They're right. Many of our households are sinking into poverty because of Petr Fiala's government. But instead of helping our citizens, the government is once again showing only incredible dilettantism. Well, I'd like to ask you for peace, because I can barely hear myself anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u3	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I call on you to keep your voice down so that the President can make his proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u4	Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL has been unable to submit an updated proposal for an extraordinary financial contribution of CZK 5 000 to families under the age of 18 who do not solve the same poverty. Last week, the government postponed this aid again because, apart from the government at the hearing, they found that the bill from the pen of the President of KDU-ČSL and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka contained gross legal shortcomings, it was contrary to the Constitution and to European law. Moreover, the contribution, as designed by the government, would penalize many families with study children who would not receive benefits regardless of how poor they are. On the other hand, the contribution would favour families who rent apartments, because rent income is not included in the limit. This is a tragic example of the total incompetence of Minister Jurečka and of the entire government of Petr Fiala. The SPOLU coalition's government, which is the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, Pirates and STAN, was appointed more than five months ago and has not yet implemented any useful system measures to help citizens cope with the sharp increase in all basic cost of living and to stop the price increase. It is necessary to help our citizens and at the same time end their large-scale tourism for Ukrainian migrants. The Czech Republic must not replace the social system of Ukraine, which does not work or rather does not exist. It's necessary in the first place... I can ask you once more to calm down, because here, on purpose, Minister Gazdík speaks so that I can't speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u5	Yes, I thank the Minister for leaving the O.R. and acting in the lobby. The rest of you, I'm asking for peace once more. Please, I'm warning you about the fourth time, so I'm really asking you to keep your voice down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u6	So I'll do it again. It is necessary to help our citizens and at the same time end their large-scale tourism for Ukrainian migrants. The Czech Republic must not replace the social system of Ukraine, which does not work or rather does not exist. First of all, it is necessary to help the Czech citizens, employees, businessmen, families with children, seniors and our disabled fellow citizens not by their own fault. That's what the SPD is promoting. But the current government is not capable of conceptual solutions and so far only recommends less car driving, less drowning, wearing two sweaters and changing windows. But where are the citizens supposed to get it if they don't have money? And so it gets our citizens, entrepreneurs and companies into serious existential difficulties. Moreover, it places all problems either on the previous government or on the hindering rules of the European Union. This government, Petr Fiala, is the most incompetent government in our modern history and should resign immediately. If the rules of the European Union do not allow the emerging deep crisis to be dealt with, it cannot be maintained under the SPD. So I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u7	Mr President, I will interrupt you once more. I ask the Member and the Minister just a little further from the counter, thank you. And thank you for the peace of mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u8	So I would repeat that as the first item in today's House of Deputies' meeting, I propose a point entitled Petr Fiala's Government is indifferent to the poverty of citizens. As another point, the extraordinary point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the SPD proposes to place a point called Due to the inability of the government of Petr Fiala, citizens pay extremely overpriced electricity, gas and food. So let me just repeat the title: because of the inability of Petr Fiala's government, citizens pay extremely overpriced electricity, gas and food. And now I would like to justify this proposal. Energy prices, as well as food, are rising dizzyly. As of 1 July, the state-owned power company ČEZ announced another rapid increase in the price of power electricity by at least 60 per cent and natural gas on average from 80 per cent compared to last year. For our households, it means paying tens of thousands more for these commodities year on year. At the same time, CEZ produces 1 kilowatt hour of electricity from the core for 25 cents to buy it back at the Leipzig energy exchange for a circus of 11 crowns for the European Union. CEZ also currently exhibits a profit of CZK 60 billion, which the state, or government, could pay in the form of dividends to our citizens. In the Czech Republic, we currently have absolutely the highest energy prices from all the surrounding states, and it is because of the government of Petr Fiala, which is unable to deal with this matter. While in Slovakia, Austria, Germany and Hungary purchase natural gas in the framework of directly concluded bilateral contracts with Russia for 5 to 7 CZK per cubic meter, the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela bought 228 million cubic meters of state reserves in our semi-empty bins, moreover owned by German companies, for an incredible 37 CZK per cubic metre, a total of CZK 8.5 billion. In the case of a direct contract with the gas supplier, as Hungary does, this quantity could be purchased at most for a circus of CZK 1.6 billion. Moreover, this government purchase took place under the so-called negotiated procedure without publication in the emergency regime that allows the government to do so. So here again we see both Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan lying behind the STAN movement, who say that the emergency state of the citizens will not touch. Well, it touches them because you blow up public billions completely out of control, and citizens feel it on their wallets - every day, every time their bills come in. Here I would like to point out that the SPD was the only side that opposed the extension of the emergency situation. Well, we voted against the emergency as such, because the YES movement wanted to extend by two weeks and you wanted to extend until the end of June. In the end, the government pushed hard, so that the full responsibility for the money that you spend in this way from taxpayers' money is, of course, borne by Petr Fiala's government. The Czech Republic has no direct contract for the collection of natural gas from the producer, and we are therefore dependent on the purchase of this commodity from intermediaries, i.e. German commercial companies. They purchase gas cheaply from the Russian Federation to sell it to us at least three times as high as CZK 25 per cubic metre according to the current exchange rate. According to the new pricelist ČEZ household in the apartment, which boils, heats and heats water and consumes 1,800 cubic meters per year, will pay up to 50 crowns per cube, namely 49.55 crowns. The current Fialův government is fully responsible for this situation. The SPD is refusing, for purely ideological and commercial speculative reasons, to pay gas for overpriced prices to our citizens, companies and households, who are thus getting into major existential problems. [[14.30 hours]] The Fialův Government does not address the deepening energy crisis in the Czech Republic. Other governments in Europe are helping their citizens. Our citizens, working families and entrepreneurs have been crushing ever-increasing fuel prices, so not only energy and food prices, but also fuel, the SPD has been pointing this out for months now, and Petr Fiala's government has been coughing on Czech citizens, not helping them. Yes, it helps Ukrajinec, it does not help Czech citizens. And we say that we need to help Czech citizens too, but the government can't hear it. So, while governments in neighbouring states and throughout Europe are taking systemic measures that mitigate the effects of high prices of petrol and diesel on their citizens, the government of Petr Fiala and the ODS are clearly not bothering and leaving our citizens and companies in the lurch. The government is only introducing a literally ridiculous short-term reduction in excise duty on fuel with effect from 1 June to 30 September, but only by a mere crown of fifty per litre. This marginal measure, on the one hand, comes too late, and, on the other hand, as the prices of these commodities continue to rise, citizens will essentially not feel this discount that is yet to come, whereas, for example, in Germany - to see how they help the citizens of another government - for example, in Germany, the government introduces discounted fares in urban and regional transport with a single fare of EUR 9 per month, including for foreigners. The current government does not come with the Czech solution. The current Czech government does not come up with a solution. In addition, Germany had already reduced the energy tax on petrol by CZK 7 per litre and CZK 3.50 per litre for diesel. Poland has already reduced value added tax in the case of motor fuels from 23 to 8 percent in the spring and reduced VAT to zero in the case of foodstuffs - for basic foods. So this is how the surrounding governments help, the Czech government of Petr Fiala does nothing for citizens. In November last year, Hungary has already put a ceiling on fuel prices of up to CZK 32 per litre for Hungarian citizens. Since March, Belgium has abolished the payment of value added tax on fuel and is considering introducing a crisis contribution to low-income citizens. Since March, Italy has reduced the value added tax on fuel by CZK 6 per litre and has also issued vouchers to the citizens in need. From April to four months, France has reduced the value added tax on fuel converted by 4 crowns per litre, and this could be continued for a long time. So in contrast to that, you can see how Petr Fiala's government does nothing for citizens. Food - The Czech Republic has the highest VAT on food in Central Europe due to Petr Fiala's government, 15%. There is not one country in Central Europe that has such high VAT on food. Even as I have said, the Polák have reduced to 0 percent temporarily to help citizens. Since the current Purple government refuses to introduce a flat-rate measure in the form of a reduction or remission of value added tax on fuel, it is also gaining an estimated additional CZK 100 billion of annual income against the plan into the state budget, thanks to inflation and increased prices and hence higher tax collection, and should therefore return them to citizens in a certain form as compensation needed. However, this is what the ODS government of Petr Fiala continues to reject and instead wants to spend much more money on arms at a time when citizens are facing the hard effects of the food and energy crisis. Moreover, Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová said on Sunday that the government now wants to buy more weapons for Ukraine for CZK 700 million, i.e. for less than a billion, and so far the government has already sent weapons and ammunition to Ukraine for CZK 3.5 billion. So I will repeat this - as a second extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today, I propose a point called Because of the inability of the government of Petr Fiala, citizens pay extremely overpriced electricity, gas and food to discuss the proposals of the SPD, proposals of the opposition, because the government clearly does not have any proposals and does not want to address the situation at all. As we know, under the reign of Petr Fiala, the number of new executions has increased by 40 percent, and the circus of 30 percent of citizens is getting into poverty, actually, into unsolvable financial problems, and the government is completely out of the question. But we don't care, we fight for all decent citizens in the Czech Republic. I don't give a damn what they want in Moscow, Washington, Brussels or I don't know - in Beijing, I'm interested in the Czech Republic here, our citizens. Their interests are defended by us in the SPD, and I want them to have a good standard of living, to have money for basic life needs, and that is the fundamental difference between the SPD and this Purple Government. This is important to emphasise. As another extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would propose, on behalf of the SPD MP, a point called the Government cannot handle migration from Ukraine, inadaptable refugees are being deployed into communities against the will of local residents. So once again, I'm going to repeat the title of the point: the government can't handle migration from Ukraine, the inadaptable refugees are being deployed into communities against the will of the local population. And now I'd like to justify it. The Ministry of Interior, headed by Vít Rakušan from the STAN movement and the leadership of the capital city of Prague, led by Pirates - Pirates, TOP 09, STAN and KDU-ČSL, leads the City Council of Prague. These are the four parties that run it there, government parties, all government parties, so they all together continue to deploy inadaptable Ukrainian refugees, many of whom are not entitled at all to temporary protection in our country, to various locations in the Czech Republic, without the approval of local authorities and against the will of citizens. This is, for example, the village of Kramolín u Třebíč in Vysočina, where the management of the village sent a letter to the Minister of the Interior to Rakušan that they did not want inadaptable Romani Ukrainian migrants there. There is a paradox that the mayor is behind the KDU-ČSL, but he is not signed under the letter, the deputy mayor is signed under it, so the village leads the government party, and right away, they moved migrants there against the will of the citizens. That's the politics of the current government. The letter was arrogantly ignored by the Rakušan Interior Minister, and suddenly the migrants were moved there. There are similar cases in Prague - Malešice, where there was a tent town on the Czech Post site for 150 migrants, as decided by Prague's Mayor Hřib for pirát. Again, I stress that the coalition STAN, Piráti, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL, which rules at the Prague City Council, and without the knowledge of the Prague 10 district, they made a tent town for the inadaptable Ukrainian Romani migrants. I am more sorry because I grew up in Prague - Malešice, I went to primary school in Nad water main street, and I certainly do not want anyone living near me to move in with me. And I will talk about this now, because similarly the management of Prague led by Mayor Hřib for pirát decided to place 120 Ukrainian Rom people in a house on Vrchlický Street, again without consulting the local town hall Prague 5 and local citizens, and I live nearby. I really don't like that, and I certainly don't like it for the citizens. Of course they don't like it. So these are typical examples of the power arrogance of the Minister of the Interior and of the Mayor of Prague and of the total failure of the refugee wave by the government. The SPD movement clearly states that we should provide adequate temporary protection and shelter only to real war refugees, only for the necessary time. On the other hand, we see no reason to spend public funds on the care of migrants who are not war refugees, at the expense of citizens of the Czech Republic. And this is where the crazy, out-of-control government strategy is going, where you said, "We're gonna take everybody, and you're gonna expect everyone to stay here." You have basically invited economic migrants who, of course, no longer want to leave the Czech Republic, and now they are actually sucking out our cash register. You made the best ATM in the world from the Czech Republic, your government! I think that a number of citizens are justifiably fed up with it, and they are right, so I think it would be a good idea to discuss it today at an extraordinary point, because after several town halls and the leadership of several town halls and municipalities are objecting to the citizens' name, that the government of Petr Fiala, the government of OSD, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates, these five parties, they are responsible for it, they have full responsibility, against the will of the citizens and without the knowledge of the leadership of those municipalities, they are being moved there by inadaptable Romani Ukrainian migrants. [[14.40 hours]] And I think it's really incredible hypocrisy, because I called on members of the STAN movement here last time - there are a number of mayors among the STAN movement, how come none of you sign up to take these Ukrainian inadaptable migrants to the community when they are elected in September? Because you know you're hypocrites, you're gonna lose that election. So I would expect you to have the Minister of the Interior for the STAN movement and the Chairman of the STAN movement, that all the members of the STAN movement will actively apply, because you agree with your chairman and government policy when you are government MPs, and that you will say that you will actively report here and say: So move them into our community, now we have elections in September, so let the citizens decide if they agree. None of you have applied, but you're moving these inadaptable migrants into all the communities outside of the mayors you're doing, you, members of the STAN movement. To Mr. Rakušan, Chairman of the STAN movement, I also did not hear anyone moving in, moving in. I read from the media that he has a family house with a garden. So how come the Interior Minister does not Rakušan an example and accommodate a group of inadaptable Roma migrants in his garden, where his family lives, to set an example? This is unbelievable, this government. You push others against the will, you push other citizens into the inadaptable Romani migrants that you invited here on the basis of your wrong policy, invited them in quotation marks, so they are economic migrants, and now you do not want to take responsibility yourself. You don't want to take responsibility yourself, but now is a good time. Again, in September, there are municipal elections where you're running for sure, and you don't want to do that. That's incredible hypocrisy. So that's why I think we need to place this item at the House meeting, because we can't keep quiet about this. So that's three points for the SPD movement, the extraordinary points we're proposing, and I hope the government coalition will approve them for us. I know they won't, because you're afraid, you have no solution, so you're going to reject these important points. You don't want to deal with the cost of food, because you don't want to deal with the cost of energy, you don't have a solution, and you reject specific SPD proposals, so citizens are already desperate about the bills, overpriced energy and food. So you do not want to deal with the energy crisis, you are completely one poorer citizen in the Czech Republic. Those are the points we've been proposing here for months. And as for those inadaptable migrants that you move in against the will of citizens everywhere but where the mayors, for example, are behind the STAN movement, that is an incredibly insolence no longer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I now have Mr. Marek Výborný here with priority rights on the proposal of the programme. Please, Mr President, you have the floor, and if there is no one else with priority rights, Mr Vondráček, Nacher, králíček, is also registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Madam Government, fellow Members, because today's political grémia negotiations have been very consensual, in principle we have agreed on the vast majority of matters and have been read as a gremial proposal by you, Madam Vice-President, so I have a single request and a single proposal, and this concerns the House press 215, paragraph 77, amendment to the Service Act, which I ask to be included as a second point tomorrow on Wednesday, June 1st, after a firm second reading of paragraph 11, House press 161, or as a second point, which would then be discussed within 12 hours, where it will be interrupted again from the Grémia, read in paragraph 29, by the House press 217. If this had been properly negotiated before 14 o'clock, we would have continued tomorrow just in paragraph 77, House press 215, the Service Act. Thank you. Just for the record, the following sequel on Thursday or Friday, we would always discuss the day in question, so that it is clear how we will proceed, because there are some embedded House prints, as agreed by the Gremium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. May I ask you, Mr President, if I may ask for a written basis? Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have two points that I would like to put forward, and before I introduce them, I will give the reasons. It is an area of energy and it is an area of renewable resources and a so-called Modernization Fund, or emission allowance trading. I don't know what we're waiting for. ČEZ has been raising its prices four times as of 1 July in the area of gas. I note that this is twice as much growth as spring, and last year it is a quadruple growth. Similarly, electricity prices are going to rise and I am just saying here, this will not be the last price increase this year. Not only will other energy companies start to add, but with respect to fixations, with regard to prices in 2021, 2022 and the way energy is purchased today for 2023, it can be assumed that further price growth will be at the end of this year. While 10 percent of households were facing energy poverty a year ago, at this point they are almost 20 percent, and by the end of the year it can be expected to be 30 percent of families. The same problem is experienced by the energy-intensive branches of the company. I don't know what we're waiting for in terms of reducing or forgiving payments for renewables. There is no House of Deputies meeting where I would not mention this, there is no meeting where I would not show examples from abroad. And if we hear from the Ministry of Industry and Trade today that a special tariff is being prepared, please, let us take a pencil and paper and let us calculate that this is nothing more than a complicated solution to what we propose within renewable sources. Recoverable resources can be forgiven not only at the level of their actual amount, but we can also forgive at a higher level, to put it simply, we can go against it and beautifully dose support for companies and, of course, for households, whatever we consider. It is a simple instrument, it is a fast instrument, and it is to a large extent a symbolic instrument, which we will deal with with the failure of the government and Parliament in 2006 to 2010, which will cost us 600 billion crowns only on solariums. And why I'm putting it in the balance of the complicated solution under the special tariff - which we don't know anything about today, from when it will be, we don't know who it will be for: I'm putting it in the balance because one of the arguments of the special tariff is that we can put it through a certain consumption, for example, through the average consumption of the household. We can do the same with renewable resources. Germany did it. It can be done simply through a minor amendment of the law that I propose here, and it will be done through the Energy Regulatory Office. Still no one in the five-calice public - I don't call it a gallery, there I dare say that most agree, but publicly - did not explain why today we are fighting with complicated and complex solutions when we can immediately relieve households and businesses by one act. So that's why I'm presenting, Madam Vice-President, item 68, and it's Law No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended and so on. At the same time, in order to make sense, I ask for a priority point number 69, which is the Act on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, on the grounds that we will answer the logical question where to take it: either from the increased profit of ČEZ, which will be extreme this year, or - and this is the law that I present here as the second, number 69 - from the Modernization Fund, where there will be significantly more resources than anticipated. We assumed 150 billion, yes, until 2027. It's probably going to be two to three times, because there are high emission allowances prices. [[14.50 hours]] With this amendment to the law, we can achieve that the resources that will be travelling there can be used for the benefit of the state budget and we can partially or entirely pay the compensation from the renewable sources that I was talking about. Of course, there are other sources, as I have already said, from ČEZ, for example. So please put these two points in order, right at the beginning of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u13	děkovat you, Mr Vice-President, and Mr Patrik Nacher is now in office. Please. I have Mr. Vondráček's application here. I don't see him here, so I'm putting him downstairs. And now you're logged in, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that there is a half-empty hall again, because I wanted to convince you for the sixth time or for the seventh time to include press number 41, paragraph 55, it is a change in the trade law and it concerns the solution of short-term accommodation. I suppose that when you come here to the Chamber of Deputies - now I speak to non-Prague Members who don't feel that way - you can see that tourism has already returned to the centre as it was before, and the level of complaints and problems with this in relation to short-term accommodation in the centre are beginning to return to the previous level. I've been talking about it consistently since January or February, when I'm trying to put it here. I'm doing a commercial here and a project of the city district of Prague 1, where we don't have a mayor, you've got one called I Want to sleep in peace. And I would like to have you repeatedly - and I'm going to say this here until the municipal elections, because it's just one of four changes, a change in the trade law. And once again, what's going on here is authorisation so that municipalities in their territory can regulate short-term accommodation. I welcome the rapporteur for this press, who, by the way, has already been included here once, then has been interrupted, so let us please finish this. And as I said at the arrival of my colleague Vojta Munzar, it is one of four steps. Then there are three other important steps related to recoupation, building permits, options within SVJ. That means it's gonna take some time. If we get stuck on this first step, and I'm telling you in advance that nothing more revolutionary comes from the MMR because it's written by the same people, the same people who wrote it before, we're not moving on like this. I am asking you again, as in the last parliamentary term we have dealt with the issue of exchange offices or taxis, which also concerned only Prague, but we had to deal with this at the level of the law. So now this is the same thing. Where would I put it? I'd put it in such a way that there's some logic, and that's tomorrow for a solid time of 13 hours. At 12 o'clock, there's this gracious summer 2, I assume it won't take more than an hour. I think it's more like an educational window, because I suppose colleagues of the Excellent are asking us, so we're going to spend that time in this way in the context of Section 90, because it's going to be one vote. And for the 13th hour, I would include print 41, the amendment to the trade law from the workshop of the capital city of Prague. Again, I recall where - for those who do not know - the coalition TOP 09, STAN, KDU, a colleague of the Čižinský and the pirate mayor reigns. Yeah, it's the issue of this coalition, and it's paradoxical that I, as an opposition MP, already propose it for the sixth time, so with all due respect, I'm asking for your support. Unfortunately, I'm sorry that I'm talking to a half-empty room here, so colleagues who might support it are out of the O.R. right now. But I'll count on you to tell them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert králíček and then Radek Vondráček are now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u16	Madam President, colleagues. Well, what kind of program loading would it be if I didn't get off right after Mr. Nacher, that's kind of a tradition here. I come with my evergreen, namely to place item 17, House press 131. This is a government amendment to the Cyber Security Act. As I read on Twitter by Minister Šalomoun, he complained that he had a lot of European implementation left for him. So here I was saying, yes, this is behind us, we didn't make this implementation, but as a colleague of Nacher, I was about seven, and this government, also Minister Šalomoun, had the opportunity to fix it. They haven't done anything about it in the last six months. So the next time he complains, let him remember me that every program with my colleague Nacher here I'm reading a priority item number 17 of House press 131, an amendment to the Cyber Security Act. I do not want to delay, so I will just say briefly that this is also a relevant regulation of the European Union, which regulates the security of electronic communications networks and communication systems. It is quite crucial for our SAOKIB so that it can certify systems dealing with cyber security in the state administration, and not only there, but also in critical infrastructure. It's a matter of ten minutes, there's a political consensus, and so I'd like to ask you if we could put it as a second point today and alternatively as the first point on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now an MP named Radek Vondráček is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u18	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. What would it be like to load Králíček program if Vondráček hadn't come up with something about freedom of speech? First for you, Madam Vice-President, the technical part. I suggest we include a new point called The current state of freedom of speech in the Czech Republic - the government's struggle with misinformation and I have several alternative proposals for its firm inclusion: First now on Friday 3. 6th as the very first point. If I don't succeed, it's 14. Six, that's Tuesday, first point. If it doesn't even work, it's 15. 6. on Wednesday as the first point of the afternoon negotiations, and if even this fails, then 17. Six, that's Friday, the first point of that day. Now back to the subject, I'll try to be brief. Last time I tried to be in five minutes, I couldn't make it. On this issue, I spoke on 26 April and proposed a point, on 27 April, I proposed an extraordinary point. Then I intersected the prime minister of this country 12. 5. and then I performed 13. 5. Each time this point either was not accepted or was directly vetoed. I repeatedly draw attention to the complete legal vacuum in the area of restricting freedom of speech in the Czech Republic, and I consider it my duty not to let this issue fit in the midst of perhaps more urgent, less abstract points that are proposed and discussed here, for one reason, that it is nothing less than the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - it is nothing more than an article. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 17 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. I will just briefly recapitulate: it clearly states that any form of censorship is inadmissible, freedom of expression and the right to information is guaranteed in this country and in this Republic. And I have already told the Prime Minister that he cannot say that he is a prime minister of the rule of law if freedom of expression is not respected in this country. [[15.00 hours]] All my performances began and were initiated by the fact that several disinformation or otherwise information sites in this country were not made available, and when I was looking for what was the reason for this shutdown, those Internet service providers referred to some initiative from the government. In fact, the government has not yet confirmed or refuted this. Did anybody write a letter? What was the role of military intelligence in this situation? This situation has also repeatedly been the subject of justified criticism by non-profit organizations, lawyers who deal with this area, because if something is wrong, it is the absence of pre-determined predictable rules. When I intersected the Prime Minister, by any chance, you will not think of this, about ten minutes after he answered my question, another article appeared on iRozhlas.cz, where the providers or the CZ.NIC association were already being replaced and said that they insisted that they have some court or public authority decisions available, because they themselves will not continue to do so, or at least have some preliminary measures or some police communication. It's happened that almost all of them are on at this point. [[websites]] While I am speaking here in the Chamber of Deputies, it has its own development. And here I always have to quote a little bit that maybe three mobile operators called iRozlas.cz expressed itself in the sense that it is not for her to evaluate which websites bring security risks for the Czech Republic and for how long, and therefore, according to the statement from last week, she wants to cooperate with the government agent for combating misinformation by Klíma. Mr Klíma's quote follows: "No one has ever contacted me," Klíma responded to the question whether cooperation was ongoing. He himself was surprised that operators continue to block. My last piece of information was that the blockade would last until April 25th, with the fact that he would now take the next step. This brings us to the gros of the subject, so who runs it in this republic, who decides who carries political, but also legal responsibility? What is the political responsibility of the government and perhaps the legal responsibility of some state institutions and civil servants for their actions and statements? The government, the ministers, the secret services, the agent? The steps of the private sector, the CZ.NIC association, took place under private law, but I draw attention to what they are still saying - and hopefully no one is questioning or denying - that there is a causal link between the steps of the public authority and the actions of the CZ.NIC towards the alleged dezinfoservera. What are the legal consequences, including the liability of the State for the damage caused by the maladministration? What is the responsibility in relation to criminal law or possible abuse of the authority of an official, whether intentional or negligent? Here - I have already said this - the articles - the constitution, but also the paper, they say the same thing that public power cannot do anything that the law does not explicitly allow. So where are the powers of the government that they can recommend or directly command and forbid which information servers in the Czech Republic can be started and which ones can not? There has been a great pomp in the establishment of a government attorney for the fight against misinformation, but I would really like us to place this point. We have serious points, and I also respect the fact that this week's grémium has decided on something roughly, is the plan of work, I am glad that we will work here and we will discuss something, but, for God's sake, it applies to all of you, so perhaps we could find a moment - and those interventions are really not enough - I checked that when I interviewed the Prime Minister - to talk about such basic things as censorship and freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. What are the specific outputs of the agent's work? Where can we meet them? How was he involved in the dezinfoserver blocking case? And we can also have fun at how much this is costing us, because he says here that he's looking for a team of coworkers now and that he's actually taking individual steps. So I'm wondering, what's the cost component, what's the reward of the government attorney? How does he participate in the preparation of new legislation? What is the political responsibility of the agent, and what is his responsibility for the results of his work? I've read his status and I'm also interested in the compliance of the agent with the competence law, both nationally and internationally, because he can make recommendations on the choice of media through which state communication should be implemented, so I'm interested in the legal basis. I would like to see compliance with the Public Procurement Act, with budgetary rules, how is this practically to be done or how will this be done? And how has a conflict of interest been addressed with an existing agent who recently stated in the interview that he is a journalist - so he has to choose, is he a journalist, or is he a government agent? So where's the conflict of interest? Nobody cares, no one asks him anything. Because he worked in the past, does he work in the present? And above all, what law gives the right of an agent as a civil servant to communicate with the institutions of the European Union and other foreign entities? How is the responsibility of the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for European Union Affairs ensured for such action by the agent? How does the agent provide support for the activities of non-profit organisations? That's also in her statute, increasing media literacy and combating misinformation. It is also financial support from the State towards these non-profits. What is the specific role of an agent in such a process? How is his possible conflict of interest addressed in this area? Where is the available information on such State aid - the definition of the aid body, the purpose of the aid, the method of selection of the supported projects and entities, who conclude the contracts on behalf of the State and what are their conditions? That's still on the water. We are still moving in a completely zero legislative environment. What would happen if we devoted one hour of parliamentary time to this instead of others, of course also of equal importance? For this reason, I would like to ask you again, all of you who listen to me, and all of you who have made a pledge to the Member, and within the framework of your pledge to do everything in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and the Constitution of the Czech Republic is talking about the inaccessibility of censorship, freedom of speech and the right to information, so that you do so in accordance with the promise and in order to sacrifice an hour, an hour and a half, the clubs can agree on a controlled discussion, but this is definitely on Parliament's land and nowhere else. And I'm tired of hearing everything from the media. Thank God that a few editors are doing this and that I will read something sometimes, but I would finally like to hear the answer from the Minister of the Interior, from the Minister of Legislation, from the Prime Minister, and the only one who answered me here a little bit was the Minister of Justice, who performed here last Friday the 13th and said that there was absolutely nothing going on with them, and there was no law written there. That is all I have learned in Parliament so far. I thank you all for the possible support of this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador, but I just have a question about the assignment. All variants are O.K. except Wednesday 15. 6. when you proposed to include the first item in the afternoon negotiations, which is actually...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u20	I'm sorry. I forgot you didn't act this afternoon, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u21	And what are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u22	Then he'll be the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, too. And now with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I, too, am coming back with a proposal - and I will keep coming - to the pre-election of the Parliamentary press 158 and the Parliamentary press 184, it is a reduction in VAT on energy and fuel to zero, and I will request the inclusion as the first and second points of today's negotiations. If I am not successful, the first and second points of the negotiations will be 14. 6. Tuesday, or afternoon negotiations, or first and second paragraphs 15. 6 a.m., or first and second points 17. 6th Friday. [[15.10 hours]] And let me briefly justify my proposal. Again, I must reiterate here that the Czech Republic is, according to Eurostat information from April 2022, the third highest inflation in the whole of the European Union. According to the harmonised index of consumer prices, in March we had 11.9 percent inflation, in April even 13.2 and according to the index of consumer prices, which quantifys the Czech Statistical Office and also contains imputed rents, which is such a specific feature, the rent of own housing, which is also recorded according to the methodology of the Czech Statistical Office, we achieved a dizzying 12.7 percent in March and in April 14.2 percent. These are generally known facts. Of course, when we look at individual items, the growth in fuel and oil prices increased to 41,5 %, electricity prices by 30.1 %, natural gas by 44,2 %, heat, hot water by 17,5 %, solid fuels by 24 percent and of course the rental prices from the apartment rose by 4.5 %, aqueous by 5.3 %, coiled by 6.4 %, solid fuels by 24.1 percent. Food - I'm just going to say a few items here because I could read it here for an hour - the increase in flour prices has accelerated to 52.3%, meat to 11 percent, semi-fat milk to 31.3%, eggs to 14,2 percent, sugar to 25.5% and, of course, food prices have logically increased by 19.5%. If I were to make a comparison - I really do not want to delay the important topic that awaits us today - I will just say: butter, if you look at the Czech Statistical Office's price sometime in November 2021, it was almost CZK 169, now the price is almost CZK 178. And that's how I could go on, the bread today costs 37, almost 38 crowns, the chicken all 68.30 and so on. So inflation is really crushing us in every way. Clothes prices increased by 21.4, shoes by 15.2. But what's falling is a decline in real wages. In 2022 it is predicted to be up to 7 percent and in the second quarter of this year it is estimated to be up to 10 percent, so, of course, due to high inflation and falling wages, Czech households are historically poor. Of course, I could talk here about construction work, industrial products, agricultural products, but these are all well-known facts, and I have to repeat and I have to say that the government is doing little and the help it has presented or, respectively, which it is talking about is obviously not working. Starting tomorrow, the excise tax will be reduced by a crown of fifty. I'm already being written by citizens from specific places, stating specific places where the price has increased today to lower tomorrow. And let's say the citizens are watching to see if they're going to feel the crown 50. I'm telling you from this place now, I'm not. Record price growth threatens not only the income weakest classes of the population, but also the middle class is affected. And I can tell you that many of the small entrepreneurs are already looking at us, that they are being crushed by inflation, crushed by these prices, reflected in the business. And they're the ones who pay taxes and are employers in this country. It's basically a global phenomenon. The cause, of course, is many - the disruption of supplier-customers relations, the consequences of the health crisis, the monetary expansion of most countries in the world and, of course, accelerated by the entire situation by the conflict in Ukraine. The jumping price increase, primarily energy, has already been addressed by our government. It was clear, we reduced VAT. The price of electricity has decreased, the price of gas has decreased, and inflation has essentially decreased over the relevant months. We have prepared, our government has already prepared - unfortunately it fell under the table, so we have prepared these two prints as a parliamentary initiative - reducing VAT to energy, electricity, gas to zero from 21 percent for one year, of course not definitively - for this year. At the same time, we have prepared another printing - a reduction in VAT on fuel, which is now the highest item from the point of view of inflation. If you look at the structure of fuel taxation, over half of them do taxes. So why not leave a part of this money to citizens who are essentially very, very limited by this? When we look at the surrounding countries, several times, I actually keep saying that 24 countries in Europe are helping across the board. I'll name just a few of them. Germany, which came with a tax advantage of EUR 300 and a reduction in fuel prices for a period of three months. In addition, the Germans want to make it easier for people commuting by car by reducing fuel prices by 30 cents, which is about 7.4 kroner per liter of gasoline, and 14 cents, that's about 3.50 kroner per liter of diesel. The Němec don't forget their low-income residents. They released CZK 3.17 billion into one-off aid. Then they took a very reasonable step on public transport, where for three months they will introduce a discounted ticket, which will cost EUR 9 per month. While they decided to support public transport in Germany, our government decided to reduce the discounts imposed by our government and, on the contrary, to double the fare for seniors and students. Poland introduced similar steps before Germany. It reduced gas VAT from 1 January 2022 from 23 to 8 percent, from 1 February from 8 to 0. In Poland, it's just possible. Slovakia - countries with lower inflation, with higher government debt - also decided with the largest electricity producer in the country, with Slovak power plants, that until the end of 2024 people would be collecting electricity at the same price as now, which was supposed to save more than CZK 12,000 for individual households. The Slovak Government announced a new package of measures for almost 1.3 billion euros, which increases child allowance, tax bonus and at the same time receives a one-time contribution from the family with children, seniors, households in material distress and other groups. The vast majority of the countries of the European Union have decided to take similar steps - I could continue this way. And I'm asking, why can't we? We have some of the healthiest public finances, we have extraordinary revenues in the state budget, we have an extremely large dividend from ČEZ, and basically at the moment, the government is not trying to give that money back to people. So I ask, where is the will of the members of the government coalition to help? Why can Members who have asked us to extend aid during the pandemic period with the impact of hundreds of billions of crowns on public budgets not be able to support citizens at this time, at a time of falling inflation? Why are we not taking measures that are being implemented by the vast majority of European Union countries, such as tax reductions or the introduction of price ceilings or flat-rate aid? The Czech way chosen by this government is to allow the consequences of the whole price increase on Czech citizens. And yet it is a state that benefits from price increases. So once again, we call on the government to reconsider its position, because there is really a threat of social reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Is there anyone else reporting with an amendment or a supplement to the proposal for a programme? Apparently not. [[15.20 hours]] If this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. Before we do, I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. And before we proceed to the vote, I will read the apologies - I will rejoin my colleagues from the lobby - apologize to Mrs Pastuchová today between 15 and 18 o'clock for work reasons, and Mr Roman Bělor between 16.15 and 2345 until the end of the day for work reasons and I have one last apology, and Minister Jan Lipavskýý apologizes within 15 hours for working reasons. So many apologies. And now we would proceed to the vote. First of all, we would vote on proposals from the Gremium, and if there is no objection, then we can vote on proposals from the Gremium at once, is that correct? No one has an objection. As the proposals from the Gremium have already been made, I hope I do not have to repeat them. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the Grémium proposals? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 178 Members and Members signed up, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. We would now move on to the next vote. First, President Okamura proposed a new point entitled Petr Fiala's Government is indifferent to the poverty of citizens. Initiating vote. Who's up for this new point? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 178 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 84, against 89. The motion was denied. Another point proposed by President Okamura is - as a new point - because of the inability of the government of Petr Fiala, citizens pay extremely overpriced electricity, gas and food. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 178 Members and Members of Parliament registered, for 86, against 90. The motion was denied. The third point of President Okamura was the proposal, which reads: The government cannot handle migration from Ukraine, inadaptable refugees are being deployed into communities against the will of local citizens. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 179 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 83, versus 91. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the proposal of President Excellent, which concerns paragraph 77, of the House Press 215, which is a service law. The President proposes to include this House press tomorrow 1. 6. as a second point and discuss it within 12 hours, when paragraph 29 is firmly inserted, the House's press 217, and after this point has been discussed, if necessary, return to paragraph 77, the House's press 215, which is a service law. Is that okay? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 179 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 93, versus 83. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the proposal by Vice-President Havlíček, who proposes to include paragraph 68 as the first item today, House Press 153, which is the Act on Supported Energy Resources. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 179 Members of Parliament signed in, for 86, against 31. The motion was denied. The next item proposed by Vice-President Havlíček is paragraph 69, House press 154, which is the Act on emission allowance trading, and proposes to include it as a second item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 179 Members of Parliament signed up, for 86, against 25. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Nacher's proposal, it is the number of paragraph 55, the House press 41, the amendment of the trade law. The Member proposes to include this point, or to assign it to 1. 6th fixed at 13 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 179 Members of Parliament signed in, for 86, against 42. The motion was denied. And now we will vote on Mr Králíček's proposal, item 17, House press 131, which is a government bill on cyber security, and we have two options. The first option - the Member proposes to include this House press as a second point today. First, we will vote on this first option. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 179 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 65, against 43. The motion was denied. [[15.30 hours]] And we have another option. It is proposed to include this House press as the first point 3. 6. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 179 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 66, versus 39. The motion was denied. We now have Mr Vondráček's proposal, concerning the inclusion of a new point in the current state of freedom of speech in the Czech Republic - the government's struggle with misinformation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 179 Members and Members voted in favour of 85, against 52. The motion was denied. The last proposal is two points, namely, President Schillerová, who proposes to include paragraph 70, House Press 158, the Income Tax Act, as the first point today. Sorry, value added. And let me just ask, is it possible to vote on both points at once that we would vote on both points gradually? [[Yes.]] So we will now vote on the fact that paragraphs 70 and 74, Parliament's press 158 and 184, both of which are value added tax laws, and we will now vote on them as variants. It is proposed to include these points as the first and second points today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 179 Members and Members, in favour of 84, against 78. The motion was denied. We will now vote on a proposal to include at 14. 6, first and second points again. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 179 Members and Members voted in favour of 85, against 79. The motion has not been approved. And now we're going to vote on putting these two points on 14. Six, first and second points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 179 Members of Parliament signed in, for 86, against 85. The motion was denied. Now we're going to vote for 15. Six, first and second points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 179 Members and Members of Parliament signed in, for 83, versus 86. The motion was denied. And the last vote on these points is a proposal for inclusion at 17. 6. on Friday, again first and second points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 18, 179 Members of Parliament signed in, for 86, against 84. The motion was denied. So we have dealt with all the proposals for a draft agenda, and we will now vote on the entire proposal for a 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing and modified by the approved amendment. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 19 entered 179 Members and Members, in favour of 152, against no one. The motion has been approved. And that means that we have also approved the agenda for this meeting. And before I pass the meeting proceedings on to my colleague Havlíček, I will read an apology. Mr Juchelka apologises today between 16.45 and 18.45 for work reasons. And I hereby hand over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-000-000.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before discussing the item
