ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u1	115. Government proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence Ministry within the multinational NATO fighting group in the Slovak Republic /German press 180/ - first reading The material will be introduced gradually by Minister of Defence Jana Černochová and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I present to you for discussion and approval a proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence within the multinational NATO fighting group in the Slovak Republic, which was approved by the Government on 9 March 2022. On 24 February Russia launched a military invasion of Ukraine. There is no excuse for this unwarranted aggression in the civilized world, and all existing measures, whether political or economic, directed against Russia, are justified and let us believe that they will contribute to its rapid weakening. The Ministry of Defence has been responding virtually from the first day to Russian aggression in Ukraine, whether by approving the mandate for the possible deployment of forces and funds allocated to the alliance forces of rapid reaction, specific military material aid to Ukraine or by building and securing the operation of a humanitarian base for refugees in Slovakia. In order to strengthen the defence of Eastern allies, the construction of multinational NATO fighting groups, namely in Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, is being launched, and in this context, I, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, present a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence within the multinational NATO fighting group in the Slovak Republic. The Czech Republic was asked by Slovakia to take over the role of the leading country in the Slovak fighting group. We greatly appreciate the offers and are proud to accept them. In addition to the Czech Republic and Slovakia, Germany, Poland, Slovenia, the USA and the Netherlands have so far volunteered to participate in this multinational combat group. The Czech Republic proposes to send up to 650 soldiers to Slovakia. Our involvement would include, inter alia, elements of command and communication, mechanized unit, military police and logistical security. On 9 and 16 March the Slovak Government and Parliament approved the mandate for the acceptance of allied forces on their territory in the number of up to 2,100 people, of which 600 seats are reserved for the Czech Republic. Another mandate for 50 soldiers from the Czech Republic was approved by the Slovak Government on 7 March to provide humanitarian aid, namely the establishment of a humanitarian base in Liptovský Mikuláš district to address the refugee crisis from Ukraine. On the same day our soldiers went to Slovakia and within three days built a tent base for up to 400 people. Now a group of up to 50 people remain in place to ensure the operation of the base. Soldiers are unarmed, and until the material is approved by both chambers of Parliament, they operate in Slovakia in the form of an extraordinary exercise. The financing of the proposed operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in Slovakia will be secured from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence. The total costs are estimated at CZK 540 million, but in view of the ongoing negotiations with the Slovak party and the possible increase in inflation cannot be excluded that this amount will not be final. Finally, I would like to add that the deployment of our soldiers in Slovakia has a strong political and practical expression of solidarity and willingness to fulfil the collective defence commitment. The proposed action will be highly evaluated at international level and will strengthen already above-standard relations between the Czech Republic and Slovakia. At the end of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank both committee chairmen - defence, foreign affairs and security of the two chambers of Parliament - for calling the committees as quickly as possible in order to finally approve the mandate at this meeting today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And now the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Jan Lipavský, should speak, but if I have information, he is still interviewing somewhere. I therefore suggest that the rapporteur speak first, I ask the rapporteur, and then we give the Minister the room if he arrives, of course. This House Press discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 180/1. And now I ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Lubomír Metnar, take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, let me begin by thanking the Minister for presenting the proposal, and I would also like to begin by saying that I and YES support these steps, and so let me give the report. As early as 2016, the North Atlantic Alliance began to strengthen common defence along the entire Western wing. At the Warsaw Summit in July 2016, NATO confirmed its readiness to face the current complex challenges. The measures adopted in the framework of the preparedness action plan have gradually been developed in a comprehensive framework leading to the strengthening of common defence and deterrence, in particular with regard to the Russian threat that was reflected in the deployment of a total of four multi-national NATO combat groups in Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the context of the so-called enhanced forward presence. At that time, this was an appropriate response to the changed security environment caused by Russia's aggressive actions towards Ukraine. Despite the above measures supplemented by NATO's readiness and determination to conduct a meaningful dialogue with Russia in order to increase the transparency of military activities and reduce the risk of incidents, the security situation in Eastern Europe gradually deteriorated and culminated on 24 February this year in Russia's unprecedented military aggression against Ukraine. Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria are states on the eastern border of NATO, but they have so far been separated from the most important potential source of possible military threat by the territory of partner Ukraine. With the initiation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the security of these countries deteriorated sharply. In order to prevent threats to their territorial integrity and sovereignty, the multi-national military presence of NATO is currently established on their territory, an analogy to the enhanced presence of NATO in the Baltic States and Poland, which has been operating since 2017. Its purpose is also to strengthen the defence capability of the most exposed part of the eastern wing of NATO. From a military point of view, this is a presence whose main objective is to strengthen the capacity to discourage through a visible expression of alliance solidarity involving the determination to defend other NATO members. As a result of the presence of alliance forces for aggressor, attacking the host country would significantly increase the risk of triggering a war with all political, military and economic implications. In this way, the collective defence commitment of NATO Member States enshrined in Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty is made visibly. [[10.30 hours]] In response to the growing threat of NATO member states by the Russian Federation, at the NATO Defence Ministers' meeting on 16 February this year, a decision was made to further strengthen the alliance's collective defence along its eastern border. The approved decisions include the preparation of the establishment of a permanent alliance presence in the form of multinational combat groups led by NATO on Slovenka, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria. It is an analogue model to strengthen the collective defence capacity of the exposed countries, which has been in operation since 2017 in the Baltic States and Poland, as I have said, the so-called strengthened NATO pre-existing presence, in which the Czech Republic has long been involved in the deployment of forces and resources into fighting groups in Lithuania and Latvia. The preparation of the establishment of an additional alliance presence was confirmed at the highest level at an extraordinary videoconferencing meeting of NATO Heads of State and Government on 25 February this year. In view of Russia's already ongoing military aggression in Ukraine, it is necessary to accelerate the construction of multinational combat groups. By mid-March, NATO military authorities are preparing modality by creating multinational combat groups. At the same time, the meetings of host and contributing countries are being coordinated at the level of the civil and military authorities of NATO on the final composition and schedule of activation of individual combat groups. At the same time, provision is also being made for the consent of the countries concerned to accept or to send forces so that the activation of combat groups can occur at the earliest possible time. The permanent deployment of multinational combat groups based on reinforced mechanized battalions in Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, is being prepared in each country one battalion, i.e. four total. The activities of individual fighting groups are managed and the responsibility for their construction and continuous fulfilment is borne by the leading countries, which are also the largest providers of forces and resources. The leaders of the battle groups will operate in the long term, and other allies will contribute militarily on the principle of volunteering and rotating. In line with the above, the Czech Republic considers the alliance initiative, which expresses the determination of NATO member states to jointly defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of allies on the Eastern Alliance wing, to be correct and to support it with a specific military contribution. The participation of the Czech Republic in multinational combat groups is a logical continuation of our current policy and activities in favour of the security and defence of the eastern NATO wing. The Czech Republic also accepted Slovakia's offer to take over the role of the leading country of the multinational fighting group in Slovakia. In practice, it means commanding international forces in the total number of circus 1,500 soldiers. It is currently assumed that Germany, Slovakia, Poland, Slovenia, the United States and the Netherlands will also be involved in the grouping in Slovakia. The government proposes the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence within the multinational combat group in the Slovak Republic in the number of up to 650 soldiers. In cooperation with Slovakia, individuals are planning to contribute to the headquarters of the multinational combat group, including its commander, the combat unit, the military police team, intelligence elements and individual combat and logistics units. Based on the development of the security situation with regard to the separate capabilities of the partner countries, the planned structure of the Czech contribution may change continuously. In addition to demonstrating the readiness to defend the sovereignty of the allied country from the aggressor, multinational combat groups will perform training tasks both within their own grouping and together with the forces of the armed forces of the Slovak Republic. Shortly to legal aspects. The operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Slovak Republic has an international legal and national legal aspect. This action is in accordance with international law, as it will be implemented with the agreement of the Slovak Republic and on the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty, which provides in Article 3 that, in order to achieve the objectives of this Treaty more effectively, the Parties will be individually and jointly by continuous and effective self-help and by mutual assistance to maintain and develop their individual and collective capacity to resist an armed attack. Since this is the deployment of the armed forces of the Czech Republic abroad pursuant to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) The Constitution of the Czech Republic requires the approval of both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. The legal status of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the territory of Slovakia will be governed by the Agreement between the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Statute of their armed forces, adopted on 19 June 1952 in London. As has been said, the total estimated costs will be covered from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence and are expected to amount to CZK 540 million. In conclusion, allow me a brief summary. The proposed presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Slovak Republic is a concrete contribution of the Czech Republic to defending the allies on the eastern wing of the Alliance against possible aggression. This is a strong political and practical expression of solidarity and willingness to fulfil the commitment of common defence. The operation of our units in Slovakia accompanied by comprehensive training as well as within allied groups will also contribute to the longer term to the development of interoperability of the Czech Army and its ability to effectively defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Czech Republic and its allies. I would add that the Slovak Parliament approved on 15 March this year's proposal that soldiers from six NATO member states, including the Czech Republic, could operate in the country as part of strengthening the eastern NATO wing. The Government of the Czech Republic discussed and approved the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence within the multinational NATO fighting group in the Slovak Republic on 9 March this year. At an emergency meeting of the Defence Committee, we discussed this Government proposal and adopted resolution number 25 on 10 March of this year by which it recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to agree. The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic stated on 17. 3. this year we agree with this government proposal. Now allow me to recommend to you with a proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence within NATO's multinational fighting group in the Slovak Republic to give your consent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. And now, as we have announced, I will ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský, to present this point for himself as well. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak here at the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies and to comment on the proposal submitted by the Government to the House. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we clearly welcome and support this proposal, which represents an important contribution of the Czech Republic to defending the North Atlantic Alliance. We are taking on another share of responsibility for common security in Europe. Moreover, in an allied country that connects us with a very strong relationship, a common history and a friendly relationship. [[10.40 hours]] Unfortunately, Russia continues its unpardonable aggression towards Ukraine and continues to escalate further. The North Atlantic Alliance therefore approaches strengthening its own defense, preferably on its eastern wing. The new multi-national combat groups in Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, which complement the existing military presence in the Baltic and Poland, where the Czech Republic also has significant long-term involvement. Strengthening the defence of the Eastern Wing is one of the three key elements of the immediate response of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union to Putinův's war, which destabilizes the global order and threatens our security. In the other two directions, the Czech Republic is also very active and profiling significantly. We provide Ukraine with all assistance, at the level of government, society, humanitarian aid, military assistance. At the same time, on the international front, we advocate separating Russia from economic resources and international ties. I believe that this proposal will be supported by the Chamber of Deputies, as this proposal has received support from the House Committee on Defence and how it has received support from the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u7	Thank you, too, Minister. Before I open the debate, I'll read the apologies. Mr Milan Feranec apologizes from 16.45 to 21 o'clock due to illness, from 16 to 18 o'clock and from 16 to the end of the day due to negotiations in the electoral region, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes, then from 24. 3rd to 25. 3. Mr. Josef Bělica apologizes because of illness. I am therefore initiating a general debate in which I am registering one application. Member Pavel Růžička reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Dear Government, the Russian invasion of Ukraine is a complete trample on international law and an attack on our own interests and values. As such, it requires an adequate answer. I appreciate that the Ministry of Defence has already responded to both the mission of NATO's rapid response forces and the gifts of material, especially military materials, Ukraine. Our response must be decisive, but at the same time it must not give cause to escalate the conflict. The proposal of the Ministry of Defence on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence within NATO's multi-national combat group in the Slovak Republic is exactly the response that contributes to international efforts to ensure our security and defence. Sending soldiers to Slovakia shows our determination to defend NATO members, but it is also clearly and visibly defensive. It also points to the growing capabilities of our armed forces, which will take the lead here, in a group that will contain soldiers from all countries with extremely advanced armies. I am particularly pleased that we accept the leading role in Slovakia, in a country with which we are connected by long and very close links. The mission will complement the existing operations of our soldiers in Lithuania and Latvia. I also appreciate that our soldiers will be able to operate in an international environment that will strengthen the interoperability of our armed forces with the forces of our allies. At the same time, I support the operation of our soldiers in Slovakia to help refugees. This is not the main mission of the armed forces, but in the current critical situation, humanitarian aid is the most important thing we can do to help people fleeing the war destroyed by Ukraine. Finally, I would like to stress that I am proud to have such a great professional army that has undergone an incredible change over the past 20 years both at the level of tactical management, operational skills, skills in carrying out missions abroad, both in Kosovo, Iraq, Afghanistan and Mali. I know our army can do this task without any hesitation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate? Please, Mr. Rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to ask the Minister: as has been said in the proposals submitted and in the intelligence report, there may be a structural change in the composition of soldiers at the place of deployment. I wanted to ask if it would have an impact on funding, or how the resort was prepared to secure funding. I'd like to ask the secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u11	Thank you. Madam Secretary will step forward and answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Yes, negotiations are still under way between the Chief of Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. There are also some issues that concern the deployment of our soldiers, namely the specific professions of soldiers, with some additional costs that may apply to this. It is expected in the budget to include CZK 540 million, but this item was calculated before some of the energy and fuel prices were increased, so it cannot be excluded that we will also have to secure additional funds with regard to these additional costs. We would also provide these funds from the Ministry of Defence budget within the framework of a chapter that concerns missions, because, on the contrary, some missions, as the Chairman of the Metnar Defence Committee knows, may have to be adjusted because of the security situation, especially in the Sahel. That's where I'll be looking for any resources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u13	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Kobza is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to give the opinion of our SPD movement on this matter. We will vote on the sending of 650 Czech soldiers with the agreement of Slovakia, which offered us in this context even the role of the leading state within this combat group. Since this is historically the territory of our former common state and our nearest nation and it is also the state of the Visegrad Four, which are our closest partners, we will support this posting. However, I would like to ask the government to clarify to us what specific tasks our soldiers will carry out on this mission, whether there can be any abuse of this defence mission, because our basic position is that we want peace and we are promoting a diplomatic solution to halt the fights, stop the killings and stop the rise of other human casualties in Ukraine. So we'd welcome this information, but, as I said, we'll support it in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u15	Thank you, too. At the same time, I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? I see Mr. Pavel Žáček's point of view. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u16	Thank you for the floor. So I would like to ask the previous speaker of my colleague from the SPD, through you, what does the concept of abuse mean? The mission is clearly sent there to defend our eastern wing, or some aggression that comes from the Russian Federation. So if by abuse, do you mean that, if necessary, our defense forces would oppose any aggression of the Russian Federation, or what do you mean by that? I wonder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u17	Thank you. prosit, Mr Kobza, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u18	Thank you for this question. We are in a very sensitive time, in a very turbulent time, in terms of all possible information, disinformation, propaganda and such, I would say those non-combat conflicts, and it is, of course, that the mission has defined tasks from the outset, so that it is clear what it is going to do there, so that it does not just happen that these tasks can be interpreted in different ways and can be abused by the other side, as another escalation of the conflict itself. That is why I took the liberty of asking the government to clarify these tasks. If this explanation is enough for you, my colleague, what did I mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u19	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else wants to join the general debate. Madam Secretary. [[Member of the pupil is reporting for the floor.]] Madam Secretary, I apologize, Mr. Mr. Žáček has made a point of fact. Then I'll ask for your point of order, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u20	I'm sorry, but of course it's not enough for me. The way I think and feel about it is that the SPD position is that we should send in some soldiers so unarmed, they shouldn't look left to the right, it doesn't make any sense. We need to send a unit in there, command her, be a multi-national unit, and be sent there to defend us against a possible attack from the Russian Federation from the east. That's no abuse. This is how I perceive your words and your call for peace. It is simply quite clear, so that we can all be clear about what we are voting on, and all of us from the other parties and the movement were clear, as you see, about the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u21	Thank you. Now, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u22	I would like to supplement Mr. Žáček. I felt like I was saying it here at the beginning, but I'm gonna do it again. As for the real number of Czech soldiers deployed, the mandate is up to 650. Fifty of them are currently working at a humanitarian base in Liptovsky Mikuláš where, for your information, there were 130 people this week. Our soldiers are helping with logistics there, which is also part of the mandate. At the same time, on April 4, the so-called Force Generation Conference will take place in Slovakia, during which the nations will confirm their contributions, the other nations next to the Czech Republic: Němec, Polák, Slovinec, Američan and Nizozemec, and during this conference there will be a clear statement of the specific occupation of the capabilities and the skills that will remain vacant or will be occupied in part, so they will be occupied. The main units offered by the allies are already known, but negotiations can be expected regarding units and elements of combat support and logistics. For the Czech Republic, maybe the paratroopers will go, there will be logists, there will be engineers, there will be a 43rd tank battalion. I think I answered very closely the questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I don't see anyone else with an application for a general debate. In fact, Mr Ondřej Lochman. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I would also just like to respond by your means to my colleague Kobza. The fact that Russian propaganda - you're talking about the use of information - is clear that Russian propaganda will abuse NATO's desire to defend its borders. Here's a step that's clearly defined, clearly legally based, we have to do it. And in order not to be abused, please, I would first of all ask my colleagues from the SPD not to write these topics so that you often use disinformation servers so that then President Okamura does not have to hide some of the posts later that he claimed about Mr Putin, because then you do not have to worry that it will be abused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u25	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u26	Well, I think it's a good thing we're asking, and I'm glad the secretary here explains it. I mean, it's a good thing we all know what those soldiers are gonna do there so we can give a meaningful answer when the press asks us. And I guarantee you, as soon as you get out of that O.R., they'll be asking you that. So what's the big deal that the SPD is asking what those soldiers are gonna do there, how they're gonna be armed, what's their function and all that? That's what we're here for. And I thank the Minister for explaining it to us. I did not understand the point of Mr Žáček, through Mr President, as if we wanted them unarmed. Of course we want those soldiers to defend Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Central Europe, so we're fine with it. But the fact that we want to know how they're going to be organized, what they're going to do there, what kind of equipment they're going to have, and that we need to know that they're not going to go to Ukraine as part of NATO troops, so there's no further escalation of the conflict, that's our right. Then leave us the right, dear five-wheelers. We'll just ask. Get used to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u27	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate? I do not see an application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I wonder if at this point the rapporteur or the Minister wants to take the final floor? Madam Secretary, would you like to take the final word? It's not like that. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I report to the rapporteur - the rapporteur does not report. I wonder who is reporting for a detailed debate? Here, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr rapporteur, it would be important that you read or refer to the resolution so that I have something to vote on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u28	Thank you for the floor, and I would like to refer fully to the resolution of the Defence Committee of the 7th meeting of 10 March this year and resolution number 25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-007-115.u29	Thank you. I prepared the resolution and then read it for order. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate? I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. I ask, does the Minister or the rapporteur want to take the final floor at this point? It's not like that. We will therefore now vote on the proposals tabled. I shall call my fellow Members from the lobby and read the motion for a resolution which I shall then vote on. At the same time, I will ask that the kvorum be set to the necessary number of votes, and that is 101 votes. The motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the action of the Ministry of Defence's forces and resources within the framework of NATO's multinational fighting group in the Slovak Republic for a period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 30 June 2023 in total up to 650 persons. We are ready to vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 49, 151 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 143, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. [[11.00 hours]] And I'm opening up another point in today's meeting, and that's the point.
