ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended, Act No. 123/1998 Coll., on the right to environmental information, as amended, and Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws (the Act on the Promotion of Research, Experimental Development and Innovation), as amended /German press 222/ - second reading The proposed proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, and I am asking him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u2	Hello, thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Colleagues, I'll have a very short opening word. We are at second reading and I have already explained in detail the bill in the first reading. So I would remind you that this is a government proposal for an amendment to the Act on Free Access to Information and some other laws. The purpose of this amendment is, in particular, the transposition of the European Directive on open data and the re-use of public sector information. The proposal also contains changes that respond to the most pressing problems of current application practice. In particular, it concerns greater protection of mandatory entities moving in a competitive environment, protection of information relating to critical infrastructure or protection against abuse of the right to information. Other proposed changes will then aim to make the provision of information more effective, including information on salaries and remunerations or the making available of annual reports. I would like to thank the members of the Constitutional and Public Administration and Regional Development Committee for the urgent discussion of the proposal within a short period of time and for their recommendation to approve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was ordered by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 222/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mrs Alena Schillerová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. After all, I'd like to go back to the proposal a little bit further. I know we're at second reading, let me sum it up for my colleagues. The right to information is enshrined in the Czech legal order at constitutional level in Art. 17 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 The basic Charter is required by the State authorities and local authorities to provide information on their activities in an appropriate manner, with the conditions for the application of the right to information to be defined by law. This implementing law is, above all, Law No. 106/1999 Coll., on free access to information that we are now talking about - its amendment - about. The Act on Free Access to Information currently transposes Directive 2003/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 on the re-use of public sector information, as amended by the relevant other directives, which I will not quote here, is in your substance, and the deadline for transposition into the Czech legal order was set by this Directive by 17 July 2021, which is why this proposal is tabled and it is certainly very acute for the directive to be transposed. The substantive changes foreseen by the directive are in particular: The provision of real-time dynamic data through appropriate technical means, greater supply of valuable public data for reuse, including from public undertakings, research organisations and research funding organisations, the solution to the emergence of new forms of exclusive agreements and the setting of exceptions to the principle of accounting for marginal costs for re-use of public sector information. The transposition of this directive will be necessary in addition to Act No. 106/1999 Sb. to amend also Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws. These changes are then proposed to be reflected in Act No. 123/1998 Coll. The main changes resulting from the Directive can be characterised as follows: extending the scope of the rules for the re-use of public sector information as well as to so-called public undertakings in the transport and public services sector as defined in Directive 2014/25/EU on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, postal services and repealing Directive 2004/17/EC. The explicit adaptation of access to so-called research data as a specific category of documents produced in scientific research supported by public funds, namely the results of scientific detection processes, experiments, surveys and so on. Publications in scientific journals remain excluded from the scope. Possibility of publication of dynamic data through programmable application interfaces and adaptation of so-called high-value data sets to be made available free of charge, thematic categories from which a high-value list will be created - geospace data, Earth observation and environment, meteorology, company statistics and corporate ownership, mobility. The aim of the new directive is to respond to current technological progress by extending the possibilities of obtaining information from the public sector. This should lead, on the one hand, to an extension of the scope of information, to an extension of the bodies obliged to provide information and to an extension of the means of making them available. The Directive sets out a range of so-called compulsory bodies, i.e. entities to which obligations are to apply under Directive (EU) No 1303/2013 are to apply. Article 2 (1) (a) 1, 2 and 3. Public sector bodies, public bodies and so-called public undertakings are included in this heading. (a) The public sector body shall be a State, a regional or local authority, a public body or an association composed of one or more such bodies or one or more such bodies governed by public law. (b) A public body shall be an entity having all of these characteristics, which is established for a specific purpose in meeting public interest needs which are not of an industrial or commercial nature, (b) has legal personality and is financed primarily by the State, regional or local authorities or other bodies governed by public law, or is subject to the management supervision of those bodies or bodies, or is appointed in its administrative, management or supervisory body by more than half of the members by the State, regional or local authorities or other bodies governed by public law. For a further public undertaking, an undertaking shall be active in the areas set out in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with point (b), in which public sector entities may exercise, directly or indirectly, a dominant influence on the basis of the property rights of the undertaking, financial participation in it or the rules governing it. A dominant influence on a proportion of public sector entities is envisaged if, in any of the following cases, those entities directly or indirectly hold the majority of the undertaking's subscribed capital, have majority voting rights arising from the holding or may appoint more than half of the members of the undertaking's administrative, management or supervisory body. [[11.20 hours]] Article 2 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) they refer to public undertakings which are active in the areas defined in the Directive, acting as public service providers in accordance with point (b) of Article 2 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council; This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment in § 2a extends the scope of compulsory entities to the so-called public enterprise as a specific category. Public undertakings within the meaning of Section 2a are those legal persons governed by private law by the State, local authority or other compulsory body, which means, in the words of the law, they have a dominant influence. The second condition is that these legal persons engage in activities defined by the directive or by law. The third condition is that it is not a compulsory entity within the meaning of Section 2 (2) (b). 1. It is essential that another obliged entity exercises the so-called dominant influence on the basis of participation in that legal person or on the basis of the rules governing it. The proposal also contains a rebuttable legal presumption of dominant influence, i.e. where a State, a local authority or a public institution holds, directly or indirectly, a majority of the subscribed capital, has majority voting rights arising from a share in that legal person or may appoint more than half of the members of the administrative, management or supervisory body of a legal person. In the meantime, as was rightly said, this bill was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Law. Allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal and empowers me to report on the results of the discussions at the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. There was a debate at the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and no amendment was tabled at the date of the Constitutional and Legal Committee's meeting. Similarly, if I may, as well as for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, he discussed at his 9th meeting and after the debate was held again it was recommended for discussion at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. No amendment was tabled at the date of the committee's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u5	Thank you, too. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Karel Haas, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any amendments, even though the rapporteur of the other committee has almost done for him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u6	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, I, my colleagues, will not delay you in any way. I think that Mrs Schillerová has very well summed this up as well as the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I had the detailed information in principle identical to it, so I will really refer to what Mrs Schillerová said, and I will not delay the course of this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u7	Thank you, too. I am now opening a general debate to which Mr Radek Vondráček, Mr Vondráček, has joined as the only one so far, which is why I will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I'm a little surprised, not surprised, by being the first registered, and perhaps the only logged in. I therefore confirm that no amendment has been tabled at the debate on the guarantee committee and that the debate has been relatively brief and constructive, but I have read today the amendment, which is number 1038, to which I will later sign up in a detailed debate, and I say here openly - I am doing so on the basis of an external initiative - although the government coalition has rejected the proposal for a lobbying law, where there is already a legislative lead. So I am proud to report publicly here that I have been approached by representatives of the State Reconstruction, with the fact that, on the basis of what came out of the debate on the constitutional law committee, it would be possible, in some way, to correct the text in a legislative manner. Indeed, I do so explicitly or exclusively in order not to lose the opportunity to debate this amendment on the guarantee committee. I am not 100% convinced that this is the best solution, however, that we have a chance to keep this amendment in play, so I will apply to it today. In order to be fair, I also have to add that although we did not discuss this matter within the framework of the debate on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, immediately after the end of this point in an informal discussion, Mr Kužílek came to me and really said that there are certain difficulties with regard to the link with the register of contracts as regards the legal certainty of those entities, what and how to publish or not to publish. I would like, therefore, to present the amendment in some way, to point out in particular that the exceptions in the government press will call for mandatory entities to publish contracts in the register of contracts a complete loss of legal certainty and the possibility to correctly conclude for what extent the depreciation of certain parts of the contract will be published in accordance with the requirements of the Act on the Register of Contracts. The certainty or uncertainty of this evaluation could have fatal consequences, whether the contract will take effect at all and will subsequently cease to be valid with the risk of unwarranted enrichment, the general serious effects on accounting, the reporting of subsidies, the recovery of liabilities and so on. We can all imagine what might cause the nullification or legal inefficiency of a business contract. The new proposed provision of § 2b para. 3 which could eliminate this confusion, and it would be great if, from my point of view, this was minimalist, but an important amendment in the final assessment of the amendment in the third reading in the game, especially when the discussion of the amendment to the committees was reduced in such a relatively fundamental way. Definitely - and I don't really like to be chairman - I don't want to go around the constitutionally-legal committee here and that I avoided the debate on the guarantee committee, but I really was only familiar with the text yesterday. Now briefly on the grounds in the general debate. According to the Government's draft amendment to Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information contained in Houses of the Press 222, contains § 2 para. 5 and 6 a system for the provision of information by a public institution which is a commercial company or a national undertaking. This scheme is by reference to § 2a para. 3 also relating to public undertakings. Following the discussion that took place during the discussion of this House press, whether it is proper or informal after the end of the point and at the break, it is proposed, in the interests of clarity and user-friendlyness of the text of the law, to state this amendment in one place. The new § 2b will thus clearly apply to the two groups of entities mentioned above. In addition to those changes included in the amendment by Jakub Michálek No. 1027, it is proposed to supplement the provisions which respond to the interlinking of exceptions to the provision of information in Law No. 106 with the extent to which certain contracts concluded by commercial companies, state-owned enterprises and a national enterprise are published pursuant to the Act on the Register of Contracts, the provisions of which § 3 para. 1 excludes from publication in the register of contracts information which cannot be provided in the procedure under the rules governing free access to information, which, of course, falls under Law No. 106/1999. Therefore, when extending the scope of exemptions from the right to information, account should always be taken of possible impacts in the light of the Act on the Register of Contracts, which, however, did not reflect either the Government amendment or the parliamentary amendment. The reason is to maintain the principle of legal certainty, the grounds for excluding application § 2b para. 1 the publication of contracts in the register of contracts consists primarily of maintaining the principle of legal certainty. To date, a typical entity considering the publication of a contract in a register of contracts as a condition of its effectiveness and validity evaluates only two aspects. First of all, the nature of itself in the light of § 3 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)))) (v) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)))) (v))) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v))))))))))) (v)))))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))))) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v))) In order to satisfy the needs of an industrial or commercial nature, which is a relatively stable characteristic to be determined once and for all by the entity and, secondly, whether a specific contract has been concluded in the ordinary course of trade within the scope of the activity or business of that legal person registered in a public register. This is also relatively stable and identifiable characteristics for individual types of contracts and can be handled with quite high legal certainty. Where both of these conditions are met, the contract as a whole shall not be published. However, in the event that one of these conditions is not fulfilled and the contract must therefore be made public, a new compulsory entity should be required under § 2b para. (a) the activities are carried out in the ordinary course of trade within the scope of the activity or business of a public undertaking or public institution incorporated in a public register; (b) the activities are of a commercial or industrial nature and the provision of information would put the public undertaking or public institution at a disadvantage in the relevant market. [[11.30 hours]] Furthermore, in the individual contract, the entity would have to evaluate in which provisions of the contract are reflected in such certain activities and carry out such selective depreciation of the textual content of the contract. Such a cascade evaluates conditions which do not have any parts, and not even quite clear legal definition, induces or can cause a complete loss of legal certainty and the possibility to correctly judge for what extent the depreciation of certain parts of the contract will be published in accordance with the requirements of the Act on the Register of Contracts. The certainty or uncertainty of this evaluation has a fatal impact on whether the contract will take effect at all, and then whether it will cease to be valid with the risk of unwarranted enrichment, serious effects on accounting, reporting of subsidies, enforcement of liabilities, as I said at the very beginning. Newly proposed provisions § 2b para. 3 would remove this confusion. Another unintended but equally interesting or important problem is that the legislative link between the new § 2b and the existing § 9 paragraph is not clarified. 2 an info law which provides for a breakthrough in the protection of business secrets where it concerns essential information on the provision of public funds, in terms of data on the scope and recipients of such funds, i.e. how much public funds and to whom it has been provided. Traditionally, it is recognised that it is never possible to conceal who and for how much it was paid out of public funds. However, according to the proposal submitted, it is not clear whether § 9 para. 2 is intended to be lex specialis vis-à-vis the newly proposed § 2b, i.e. that information which would not be provided under the newly proposed provision 2b will nevertheless be provided to the extent that, in theory, they constitute a commercial secret, but only to the extent that the public funds and to whom they were provided within the meaning of the above tradition. Annex V.Part 2.41 (b) 3 would therefore address this uncertainty, at least in the field of contracts, because the statutory obligation to disclose such information in the register of contracts automatically excludes the possibility of exercising business secrets to the extent of who and for how much. Other reason for excluding application 2b In the case of the publication of contracts, Article 2b (1) of the Treaty provides that: 1 contains a practically identical exception, which is already contained in § 3 para. According to the last provision, contracts concluded in the ordinary course of trade within the scope of the activity or business of that legal person registered in a public register shall not be published. The information relating to the normal business activity of the same obliged entities is thus protected already, their duplication of protection would obviously be redundant, could cause some subsequent interpretational problems. As regards the provisions of § 2b para. (b) excluding the provision of information on activities of an industrial or commercial nature where the provision of such activities would put a compulsory entity at a disadvantage, that exemption is to a large extent comparable to the already existing exception in Section 3 (1) (b). In order to meet the needs of industrial or commercial nature, Article 2 (q) of the Act on the Register of Contracts, which is only used by so-called compulsory entities established in order to meet the needs of industrial or commercial nature. Application of the exemption in § 2b para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the publication of contracts in the register would therefore be redundant if the provisions of Paragraph 3 (3) were applied to the contract. In the case of a contract register, an exemption from the exemption would be in fact not possible. I think that most listeners must be lost at this point, and that is actually the essence of my contribution. Remember that we have shortened the deadline for this press, and this debate, which should take place on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee, has basically not had a chance to run, because we simply did not have time for it and well. Therefore, for the reasons I have indicated to you, it is appropriate to leave the scope of the information published in the register of contracts unaffected by the exception in Section 2b para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That's all on my side. I hope that all those who have repeatedly enchanted here by wanting to be completely or sufficiently transparent and to produce quality legislative products in this Chamber of Deputies will understand that we are to address this amendment and that there will be time on the floor of the constitutionally-legal committee. Again, I didn't want to go around, that I didn't read it until today, and that I'm just doing it today - just for time reasons, some text of the solution came up now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u9	Ladies and gentlemen - thank you, Mr President. I presume you will sign up for this proposal in a detailed debate. Now, with priority rights, President Michálek is signed up for a general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, this proposal contains three fundamental amendments. First of all, it is a new extension to public enterprises, which have not been under a hundred-six so far and have not provided information according to the hundred-six, this is mainly the business company CEZ and other similar dominantly controlled but not 100% controlled by state-controlled companies. Secondly, there is a proposal for an extension of the information that is given on the remuneration of civil servants and other matters which have historically been the subject of a major dispute. When the reporters asked for it, there were long litigations, absolutely unnecessary exploitation of our justice in cases where the information was to be provided without further action. And the last amendment that is submitted is the introduction of an information order, which is already in the law, but we are now improving it in such a way that, in a situation where the matter reaches the Board of Appeal, the Board of Appeal has all the information necessary to assess whether or not it has to be issued. Unfortunately, today there is a situation of unreviewability, where the appeal body is based on the fact that if there is no evidence in the file of any reason, or if there is no information as to whether the reason applies or does not apply, the matter of the first-degree authority returns to further proceedings and there is no release of an information order. Thus, a logically mandatory entity that wants to break free from this obligation is taking advantage of it and does not give reasons, and this extends the time. I also have practical experience when I asked for some information, so it took about three years, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled on it three times, and only three years later the information was provided. So we really should make this law work especially in practice, not only on paper. Furthermore, the law, as presented, addresses a number of pressing problems, such as misuse of the right to information, protection of critical infrastructure information or protection of arbitrage information, which is important data that we need to protect. Now, as part of my second reading, I propose, on the basis of the agreement of the presidents of coalition clubs, a change based on what was also prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. It is contained in the system as House document 1027 and it is essentially a response to technical comments on the legislative text that was made on the constitutionally-legal committee, the issue of the double legacy that Mr Haas was referring to. As for Radek Vondráček's amendment, which was tabled a few days later and largely based on our amendment, I think this is a matter for negotiation. I think we should consult on this, because the proposal by Mr Vondráček basically means that the register of contracts will remain in the same arrangement as today, that the Act on the Register of Contracts contains a reference to the 100, so whatever is not provided according to the 100, so it is not granted according to the register of contracts, and therefore, when we have extended some reasons for refusal in the event of competition protection, it can then also be entered into the Act on the Register of Contracts. [[11.40 hours]] This is precisely what we should think carefully about, whether it really was the aim of the Ministry of Finance, which wanted to protect state-owned enterprises, so that information that could harm them in competition is not provided. I don't think the original reason was directed against the register of contracts as it works today, but it was really about the facts that are requested under the Free Access to Information Act, not published without more. Otherwise, given that there is a problem with this law, that it contains the implementation part, we are burdened with obligations from the European Union and we are threatened with fines of tens of millions of crowns for late implementation, so I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline between second and third reading to 7 days so that we can deal with it. That's enough, seven? [[He is turning to the rapporteur.]] For seven days, so we can deal with it next week on Wednesday. And I will sign up for these proposals in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u11	Thank you, Mr President. A real comment by Mrs Berenika Peštová on your performance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u12	I wanted, through Mr President, to ask Mr Michálek, he seems to be more in the picture here or more in the detail in this law. When we were at the Ministry of the Environment, we were more concerned with the fact that the hundred-six was abused, and abused in the sense that over a hundred-six clouds of questions were rushing to the Ministry, and it was not enough to really process one person, two people, those people were constantly swelling and growing. And I was wondering if you were looking in that direction, which means maybe you've only limited the circuit that's going to be marked by the hundred and sixty, or what I can ask for over the hundred and sixty. Because it wasn't a question in terms of what was here and what I was listening carefully to now, that you were interested in contracts and so on, but those were questions about the type of salaries that officials have since the wonders not a reporter through the head of the department, the director, just the things that really took the Ministry's incredible time, I don't think they had to process for nothing, because you have to answer that question. So I was wondering if you narrowed down the information that I think is completely unnecessary. I understand you're trying to point it over 100 to information that's interesting, but these are for me, I'd say, information that may be interesting to somebody. As you said back then, when you go, as you go, through Mr President, to a restaurant or some refreshment, and there you wonder how many people take, it may be interesting there, but it's a terrible burden for the ministry. Thank you for your answer, which I'm sure you'll tell me now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u13	Thank you. The President of Michálek is responding to you with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u14	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, this law regulates the issue of misuse of the right to information, as has been pointed out in the long term by various associations of authorities, where some people have reasons other than what the law considers relevant, and even by the courts, it is possible to reject the application in some cases as regards misuse of the right to information. So, basically, it's just an indication of the current caselaw. But it certainly doesn't mean that any request for information, if there's more of them coming, if the Bureau is dealing with something important, would be an abuse of the right to information. On the contrary, as far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, we must assume that the Ministry of the Environment is the central administration, it is the Ministry that decides the most important things about the environment, so there is certainly an interest in public control. As far as the salaries of officials are concerned, on the top floors this proposal is being addressed so that those who actually run the Ministry and so on should have no doubt and information about the amount of their income will be provided automatically. On the lower floors, which are not explicitly listed in the Act, the proportionality test, which requires the Constitutional Court to be carried out individually, will continue to be carried out. If, in the case of such an application, it is admissible that it is requested in connection with a completely different procedure in order to impose pressure on a particular person who, for example, decides in administrative proceedings, it may be cases of abuse of the right when the application is rejected. So much for my colleague's question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u15	Thank you and I therefore ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? I see no one, if that is the case, in which case I am ending the general debate. And I ask the plaintiff or rapporteur if you want the final word at this point? It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Radek Vondráček is the first to report, but before him with priority rights, Mr Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u16	Thank you for the floor. I report to House document 1027 and refer to the reasoning that I made in the general part of the debate and which is stated directly in the Houses of the Press. It is a correction of the double reference in the course of discussions on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u17	Just Mr President, I just wanted to ask, in the general debate, did you propose a shortening of the deadline, if that is true?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u18	Yes, and I'm also applying for a short notice. Thank you for reminding me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u19	Seven days. Okay, thank you. Now, then, Mr Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u20	Thank you for the floor. I, with permission, will follow my colleague Michálek unusually harmoniously, because the amendment that I have read basically follows up on his. So I'm applying to Amendment 1038, as set out in the system. The point is that the consequences of poor publication in the register of contracts or non-publication can be harsh, can be very fatal for those entities, and therefore the legal text needs to be interpreted. I fully refer to the justification that I introduced you to in the general debate. I only wish to make one short comment. I said we didn't discuss these objections here, although the issue was known because the deadlines were shortened and we didn't have a decent time for it. Now, once again, it is proposed to shorten the deadline between second and third reading to 7 days. We're gonna do this pretty quickly again. It would be nice to communicate in some way in this matter, if that is really necessary. I know that the deadline for implementation has expired and there is some kind of penalty, but I would like to hear the idea of when the third reading will take place? If it is... I'm not gonna hold up the mike, we're gonna discuss this in person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-002-010.u21	And I thank you for your kindness, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking if anyone else is still applying for a detailed debate? I see no one, all the proposals have been made, in which case I am also ending the detailed debate. And I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur would like to take the final floor at this point? It's not like that. In a detailed debate, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline for third reading to 7 days. I will rejoin my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, and we will vote on a shortening of the deadline for the third reading. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll sign you out. I'll ask you to re-engage with your cards. [[11.50 hours]] The number of people present has settled, and I am therefore opening the vote. I'm asking, who's in favor of shortening the deadline for third reading to seven days? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 25, registered 127 Members and Members, for proposal 117, against 4. I note that this proposal has been approved and that we have reduced the hearing deadline to 7 days. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. We'll continue with the approved program. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
