ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-004-109.u1	109. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on medical devices and diagnostic medical devices in vitro /house print 168/ - third reading I therefore ask, once again, both the Minister, who is already present at the rapporteur's table and Mrs Věra Adámková, who is rapporteur and this press for the Committee on Health, and I note that the amendment is in Parliament's Press 168/2, which was delivered on 12 July this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as Parliament's press 168/3. Now, first I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? It's not like that. So I am opening a debate that no one is applying to. If this continues to be the case, I am ending the debate. I don't expect final words, not interest. Then we will proceed to the vote on the amendment. Once again, I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the voting procedure, then she has tabled an amendment, and before the vote she has delivered an opinion on it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-004-109.u2	Thank you again for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I will turn your attention to this press very briefly, because we discussed it quite thoroughly here at second reading. This is, in fact, an accompanying law to the previous law, and this is because there is a little more attention to possible sanctions, that is, who would not comply with all the requirements of the law, then here we have precised how its implementation will be enforced. There is only one amendment, it is mine again and it is very simple. The point is that this amendment is again about the period of effectiveness, because it was again 26 May of this year in the original proposal, which we have not been able to do, so let me say - this amendment says: "In Part Three, Art. The words "day 26 May 2022' shall be replaced by "day 15 after its publication'. It's because we don't approve of senseless things, of course. This House press 168 dealt with the Committee on Health at its 13th meeting on 31 August 2022 and adopted the following resolution: "Committee on Health of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament as a guarantee committee after discussing the draft law at second reading I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies vote in third reading on the amendments tabled to the Government Bill amending, or 168 in the following order: 1. proposals of legislative technical presentation in third reading" - have not been submitted, therefore this point is not relevant; "2. Amendment A', which I have introduced you to, is the period of effectiveness; "3. vote on the bill as a whole, II. adopt the following opinions on individual amendments - the proposal And he recommends; III. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee, Věra Adámková, to propose, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, other necessary adaptations under Section 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act' - there is no need; "IV. Instructs the Committee rapporteur, Věra Adámková, to present the opinion of the Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the third reading of the bill; V. Instructs the President of the Committee of Mr Svoboda to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." This is a resolution adopted by the Committee on Health, and we can please proceed nicely, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-004-109.u3	Thank you, rapporteur, for the comprehensive presentation of the resolution. Once again, I call on my colleagues from the lobby, and we will now proceed to the vote. Yes, I'm registering an interest in check-out, so I'm asking you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. The rapporteur has already given the opinion of the committee, so I am asking the rapporteur for an opinion on the amendment. [[Minister: The opinion of the Ministry of Health is positive.]] Thank you for the presentation and I am opening the vote on the amendment tabled. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 83 registered 120 present, for 119, against none. The proposal has been approved, it has been accepted. Since we have dealt with all the amendments, we can proceed to the vote on the following resolution, which I will now make: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on medical devices and diagnostic medical devices in vitro according to the Parliamentary press 168, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I am opening the vote on the bill as a whole. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 84 registered 123 present, for 122, against none. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank both the rapporteur and the petitioner and conclude on this point. Thank you. Now we're going to move on to the next point, which is point 110, it's
