ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u1	158. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interpelations first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the Government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will immediately begin. And before I give the floor to Mrs. Lesenská, I will read the apologies. Eva Decroix apologizes throughout the day for working reasons, Lenka Dražilová from 14.30 to 9 - working reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana from 14.30 to 21.00 for family reasons, Michaela Opltová throughout the day for work reasons. From ministers apologize Vladimír Baláž from 13 to 16 for work reasons, Bartoš Ivan from 16 to 18 for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan all day for work reasons and Jozef Síkela from 17 to nine for work reasons. And now I give the floor to Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, who was drawn first to give oral interpellation to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala, and Mrs Marie Pošarová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u2	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, my question is called - or my interpellation - High-speed networks. I'm directing it, Prime Minister, to you, because I'm not quite sure which Ministry of Network Building belongs to at all. Plus, Minister Síkela, as far as I know, was excused from today. I suppose it will be necessary to build a slightly denser network of transmitters than it is now. My first or my first part of the questions is whether there is any comparison or results of the measurement of electromagnetic radiation of existing networks in comparison to those high-speed ones. However, the second part of my inquiry is aimed at securing not only the transmitters, but the entire network itself. At the time of digitization and electronization of the state administration and of all institutions, we become dependent on the whole company. How are measures designed to protect them, and how will they possibly work or how should authorities work without long-term internet access? And by that I mean blackouts one, two, but even more days. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u3	Thank you, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u4	Hello. Madam, thank you for mentioning this subject here, because the topic of high-speed networks is certainly important. I would even say that this is one of the most important steps for modernising our economy. Support for the construction and development of high-speed networks takes place at several levels and it is clear, of course, that, in a liberalised Czech and European market for electronic communications networks, the networks are primarily built by entrepreneurs, but where there are large investment costs, the support from the state appears necessary. But what entrepreneurs really need to build high-speed networks are legislative and non-legislative measures. Here we are based on some documents that we have already adopted in the Czech Republic. It is a strategy for the development of networks with very high capacity and it is also an action plan 2.0 to implement non-subsidisation measures to support the planning and construction of electronic communications networks. And there is also material that concerns the development of mobile networks, which is closely related to it or is completely linked to it, and this is the implementation and development of 5G networks in the Czech Republic. Based on this material, an alliance was founded, which is called the 5G alliance, which is a common platform to support fifth generation networks and services. And precisely because the question is complex and cannot be dealt with only by the state or only by entrepreneurs, this alliance is made up of representatives of both private and public and academic spheres, and these are important steps to move forward. What the state can do and is to do by the state is concerned with legislative measures. Here we managed to push through a few things that facilitate and speed up the construction of electronic communications. This needs to be simplified for connections up to 100 metres, facilitating the approval procedure for the construction of electronic communications networks or introducing a so-called institute to save construction costs. At the same time, the possibility of the longitudinal location of civil engineering lines, including the cable system of roads and easier transhipment, was modified by legislation. With regard to subsidy programmes, grant mechanisms, we have created here the possibility of using the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness and we are also counting on support under the future Operational Programme Technology and Applications for Competitiveness, i.e. in the abbreviation OPTIK. We also anticipate the use of European resources for the development of networks with very high capacity. Here we have in mind, above all, the use of resources from the National Recovery Plan. It is a component of 1.3 Digital Large Capacity Networks and some challenges have already been announced within this part of the National Recovery Plan. This component also provides for allocation to improve signal quality in the 5G network on railway corridors. It is also assumed that you might also have meant using European means to cover so-called white sites with 5Gm networks, especially in rural areas, that is in populated locations where there is no or sufficient mobile signal. Nor is it expected that in the near future, on the basis of market conditions, an operator here would expand its network to these locations. As you can see, these activities are at a high level of preparation. Some are already being implemented, some still need the so-called notification of public support to the European Commission or public consultation, where evaluation takes place in the case of covering railway corridors or sites without a mobile signal. [[Time.]] So just to sum it up. The targeted public support - the last sentence - only goes to places where the market mechanisms fail, and so it should be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. And I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask the President an additional question? Is he interested? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u6	Thank you, I do. Thank you very much for the Prime Minister's words, but it was said to my colleagues who were already here to find out where my question was going that it was in the area of security of the networks, which unfortunately you did not answer me. So who or to which ministry or office we can turn to asking how these networks will be secured, how will the authorities work if there's a power outage, the power outage itself, and I'm not really talking about days, I'm talking about two, three, a week. We have experienced a two-day-long blackout at the office of employment, and we could close the office for three days. We had nowhere to send our clients, no way to communicate with them. So I'd really rather expect your answer to the security of such connections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in an answer, yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u8	Thank you for the additional question. Of course, I understood your question by asking, among other things, how do we fill in the white places and where the system is not, which I tried to answer, and I could continue with these answers. Of course, security is part of the whole issue, but you can also specify the question in writing - if you mean, for example, the blackouts that are caused by some attacks, we have a fairly large security system in the Czech Republic, which I think works well, including the fact that there are competent authorities dealing with this protection, or whether you mean possible failures due to some technical malfunctions, which is a case that is not quite common, but which, of course, is also one that is thought of when creating high-speed networks. I would just like to say that we understand the quality of digital infrastructure as a solid part of not only the digital economy, but also something that is absolutely essential for the normal functioning of our state, and we take it for granted that it is not only about building infrastructure, but it is about making the infrastructure work best and ensuring that it is sufficiently secure to avoid what you experienced from your past experience and what you warn about. However, a serious risk is also a question of some type of attack, cyber attacks that are quite often exposed to our institutions. From experience to date, we can say that the system of security and protection is of good quality. We can face these attacks, and we're gradually improving them. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Marie Pošarová, who was drawn in second place, will speak with another interview, and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Yes, we're sorry, but unfortunately, we don't have time-space downstairs, which is a big disadvantage for both those who interpel, and for the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u10	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, you have always referred to European solutions and argued that Germany supports European solutions, we support European solutions, and, behold, Germany is preparing to subsidise, to put a price on gas even for industrial enterprises. On the basis of the expert commission, companies should pay up to 70 per cent of their consumption only EUR 0,07 per kilowatt hour and the price ceiling should cover all and large enterprises. Germany goes further, releasing EUR 200 billion to electricity prices, which is against all the rules of the single free market, if that is what we can call it now. Furthermore, they plan to put an additional EUR 100 billion in gas price, subsidize. If they do, they will deny Europe's functioning in energy policy. What's your plan for our big businesses? What steps will you take if the Němec do this? Because on German television, they talk about it so much that they think it's a done deal. I was making an amendment to this, which was also intended to address the price ceiling for large businesses, it was ignored. So what's your plan now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u11	Thank you, Madame. Now the Prime Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u12	Madam, yes, we have all recorded information from the media and from the speech of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, who announced the creation of a special economic fund of EUR 200 billion in support of actions to protect the people and businesses affected by high energy prices. Just for accuracy - there are no precise parameters of the intention, but it is already said that the sum is to be spread out until the spring of 2024 and is to be financed by loans. The German chancellor called the package a defensive umbrella and, depending on it, announced that Germany would no longer need a new gas charge, which was due from October. You can see from this example that in every country, the decisions that are being made at present are not at all simple and change depending on the situation that is on the energy market and on which Russia's aggression on Ukraine has an extreme influence and follow-up, Russian steps, on energy, so that even in Germany, there are simply changes in those measures and those attitudes. But in no way does it mean that Germany is helping more than we are, and if anyone would like to say so, let's compare our help with the German one, and we're talking about a country that has more than eight times as many inhabitants as the Czech Republic, especially 15 times higher GDP. So it's not easy to compare, but we can still. Germany has accepted - you are mentioning this here, as are we - a reduction in the tax on energy. Our government in the field of fuel by reducing excise duty, in the field of electricity forgiveness fee for renewable energy sources, we made in the Czech Republic. Unlike Germany, we have regulated retail prices for households, businessmen, smaller companies and medium companies by ceilinging electricity prices at CZK 6 with VAT and gas at CZK 3 with VAT without distribution fees. With regard to the contribution in vulnerable groups in the fight against energy prices, Germany and the Czech Republic have both agreed to this, and other European countries have added to this. As regards the support for large enterprises, which you also specifically mentioned, as well as Germany and the Czech Government have come up with a number of programmes, challenges and aids. These are, for example - and specific steps - for example, forgiveness of the fee for supported energy sources, for every megawatt hour consumed, businesses will not have to pay this fee, which is CZK 599 including VAT. Temporary crisis framework - the next step, we take full advantage, serves for businesses affected by the current crisis or related sanctions and retaliatory countermeasures. Since the beginning of November, companies, i.e. large electricity and gas users, will be able to apply for support of up to CZK 30 billion. This programme also helps with the liquidity of companies, which is currently crucial. And we're taking more steps. I don't have time to name them all here, but I'll remind some of the businessmen called for by the Association of Industry and Transport called for by the Chamber of Commerce. Temporary framework and EGAP Plus, indirect cost compensation, Trend programme of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to support business research, energy savings, subsidies for energy savings in companies, programme Guarantee 2015 to 2023, subsidies for photovoltaic power plants for entrepreneurs, call for the promotion of modernisation, distribution of heat in district heating systems from the National Recovery Programme and more and more. [[14.50 hours]] These are the steps that our government has taken to support industry, to support large entrepreneurs, alongside those steps that we have helped citizens through which we have helped the public sector, helping entrepreneurs and small and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. As regards the German measure itself, because we do not yet know its parameters, we do not even know to what extent it will be able to enter into force. Germany is also subject to the same rules as other European Union countries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do I ask the honourable Member whether he has an interest in asking the Prime Minister an additional question? He's interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u14	I would also like to ask - you said that you actually have something for large businesses, but it is only until the consumption of 4,200 megawatt hours of annual consumption. There's nothing beyond that for businesses. So you're gonna let the big business go? We cannot compare German support and Czech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u15	Thank you, Madame. The Prime Minister will answer your follow-up question. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u16	Well, we can't compare German support and Czech from the point of view of the differences between the two countries, but we can still compare what the Czech Republic has done for citizens, for households, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for the public sector, with what Germany is doing for them. And the fact that we're all here looking for solutions to help big businesses and industry is true. I have appointed specific steps for you here, which our government has taken and which can be done, and, of course, we are looking for further ways. The most reliable, although many in this room on the left do not want to hear it, is a European solution that has proven to lead to a reduction in energy prices. The steps we've taken, the advice we've brought together as a country chair, their results, it just leads to a reduction in energy prices, and that can't be denied. Even something called verbal intervention works, and energy prices are falling because of it, and it needs to be continued because it is the most reliable, cheapest, straightest, most efficient way to reduce energy prices and really help large businesses. But the example of Germany and the example of the EUR 200 billion here clearly shows us that the call for a European solution is right, because if we agree to compete with each other with national budgets, that we will compete with each other regardless of the open space of the European Union, if we compete for who and how much more will support their own industry, what will happen with regard to the strength of the Czech Republic? Well, we will not come out of this competition as winners and we cannot come out as winners, so we cannot accept this, we must go the way of a European solution for large companies and use all the possibilities we have, which the Czech government undoubtedly does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time. Before I give the third prize-winner, Mr Radek Koten, I will read my apologies. He apologizes to Adámková Věra from 14.50 to 17.45 for health reasons, Helena Válková from 14.30 to 9 for work reasons and Válek Vlastimil from 16 to 9 hours for work reasons. I'm gonna ask you to wait. We're trying to reboot the time machine. Looks like we did it. You have the floor, Mr Radek Vondráček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u18	Thank you, Madam President. My colleagues, my colleague, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you such a major question and then a few minor questions. It can be said that yesterday we agreed with one of the ODS members on emission allowances because the abolition of emission allowances and also within the framework of the summit and our Presidency in the European Union, so I think that we should support Poland and withdraw from emission allowances in the EU, because they are both costing us electricity, and we should also withdraw from the so-called Green Deal, because it also makes our energy more expensive. As far as energy is concerned, of course, it is a good step in the direction, but the ceiling is relatively high and will liquidate as our businesses are smaller, larger, production will move outside the Czech Republic and will induce relatively large unemployment. And I'm surprised because the ODS as a right-wing party has always been opposed to redistributing funds that somebody gets in business, and that's exactly what's happening right now, that is, sector tax, corporate tax that they're making for the energy crisis, and you want to redistribute it. I'd be in favour of keeping the money in those consumers and getting it sorted out right at the beginning systemically. I think you called here after the last election period, too, to deal with all of this systemically, that is, if we make electricity cheap, then you, as a majority owner, as a state, can, of course, sell electricity directly, not through other dealers who make money on it and then sell electricity to final distributors. And as for the budget, where will you get the money if businesses close down? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u19	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister will answer you now. Please, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your - I wanted to ask you a question, but I have to say for your questions, and I don't know exactly which one to answer. In those five minutes I will certainly not be able to explain, for example, what the real price of energy produced in the Czech Republic is, what it depends on, that what appears in the media, that it costs EUR 10 or 20, that it is simply not real and does not account at all for how much electricity is actually produced by individual producers. I could explain to you why it isn't, and why it can't be, but I will try to answer the question you started first, and that is the issue of emission allowances. I guess I'm gonna surprise you, I'm totally -- even if you're listening to me repeatedly, I'm not gonna surprise you -- I'm not happy with how the emission allowance market or the emission allowance system works. I believe that this needs to be changed, but unlike the previous government that talked about it and did nothing about it, we are doing something about it. However, I must also say openly that the will to change the system of emission allowances by abolishing it is absolutely not among most European states, and we do not have such a majority and we will not obtain it. Above all, and that is an even bigger problem, there is no will at all with Members of the European Parliament - you probably know that the European Parliament has a greener policy in its outcome than the Council and a number of proposals go even further in this direction, so it cannot be simply said that they are the institutions of the European Union, but they are also Member States and MEPs of European countries that prevent the revision of allowances, and that is something that needs to be borne in mind. It is one of the tools for achieving climate goals, as is said in Green Deal, which Andrej Babiš agreed and committed the Czech Republic to be climate neutral in 2050 without any compensation, so we have no choice but to reduce these obligations and, first of all, our aim is to reduce the prices of these allowances so that they have less impact on the price of electricity, heat or for the production of industrial enterprises. I have to say, we're quite successful in this negotiation. First of all, we got some free allowances for our heat plants. That's what we negotiated, that's the concrete result of this government. This means that citizens will pay less for heat than they would in any other case pay. Of course, the outcome is negotiated in the Council, but it has not yet entered into force. This depends on the trialogue of the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament, which is currently under way. We will try to end it during the Czech Presidency. It may move to the Swedish Presidency, but we have negotiated that basis in the Council of Ministers. [[15.00 hours]] In September, we reached the conclusion - and it was at the extraordinary Energy Council, which we called together as the Presidency - that the Commission was to find a solution to better use of allowances from the market stability reserve and their use for financing the EU REPower package, through which energy projects will be financed in our country, which is also important - another success of the Czech Presidency. Last week, the ECOFIN Council of Finance Ministers agreed. It decided to release 300 million allowances worth EUR 20 billion. Why do I say it's a success? Because these are concrete steps that change the allowance trading system, and because we have managed for the first time to get the issue of allowances for serious negotiations, negotiations on them and on the European Council. I personally opened this topic at an informal summit in Prague. Yes, we have support here, and together with us, Poland and some other countries want it. Unfortunately, most of us are struggling, yet we have achieved the results that I have told you. The fact that we're interfering with this system has one fundamental and positive effect. While in March or July, the prices of allowances affected the limit of 100 euros, they now range between 60 and 70 euros. If we continue with these mechanisms, we will see that the prices of emission allowances are not surprisingly rising.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member is interested in asking an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to ask - of course I know that this is an extensive question, so I hope that you will answer the other questions in the second part. However, the price of allowances is so high because they are trading on the stock exchange and that those who can buy those allowances, of course they are all, for example, pension funds and the like, are not just energy producers, so I think that is a huge mistake. As far as Poland's support is concerned, I think we should have supported it and it really should have come out of that allowance system. However, you have not answered a pretty crucial question about where you will be taking money into the budget if huge employers, such as Škoda Auto or the like, close here because of energy prices, and it will induce huge unemployment. So, then, what will you be paying unemployment benefits and other compensatory packages for? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u23	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister will answer your follow-up question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u24	I have already answered the question of what we are doing to prevent such developments from simply allowing the collapse or major problems of large companies. We are aware that we are an industrial country, and we are acting accordingly. In the case of this link to emission allowances, I would remind you what I did not say in the previous reply that the government also prepared compensation for indirect emission allowances costs to help larger energy-intensive companies. Here is notified at this time support of 800 million crowns, she can be used and used already this year. The way we've identified it, we're counting on the support for next year. I agree with you that the system of allowances does not fulfil its purpose, because their purpose was to penalize environmentally bad climate activities, but at a time when we are facing such a serious energy crisis caused by Russia's aggression in Ukraine and the Russian approach towards energy delivery to Europe, we must, of course, use all available energy sources to the maximum, and in this case, allowances are expensive to citizens and companies. We regularly perform on this subject with Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki and some other colleagues join us. But once again, I think it's a success that we've even gotten the topic of allowances into the debate on individual councils, that we've put in place modifications to the system, for example, with the automatic release of allowances, in case their price rises sharply. This leads to the fact that today the price is stuck in the numbers I've named here, and it doesn't quite tick. I don't think it's a small success.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are now on the fourth interview by Mr Radek Vondráček, Mr Radovan Vích, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. We were prepared to discuss the topic of censorship in the morning and on the activities of the Department of Strategic Communication of the Office of the Government, we failed. I'm gonna try to kill a few of my questions here in two minutes. First of all, we wanted to ask, because the interpellation of our colleague Nacher is actually from March, he really remembers something, there has been a major development since then, it is no longer just some censoric intervention, but the government has already started preparing its information campaigns. The first information campaign cost us CZK 24 million. Coincidentally, it was launched a week before the municipal elections, what a coincidence. I wonder if the only purpose and the only result of this campaign was that the actions of this government were defended before the municipal elections, or if we have any outputs and measurable effects - if more people started to walk for benefits, as you recommended, or how the awareness among the population was done. What I'm wondering is what it all cost us, because the $24 million -- as far as I know, the contract was received by a company that had some problems with the people prosecuted for tax evasion. I don't know if it's a coincidence, it's just that the ODS is unlucky, because when she had a presidency before, there was a Promopro, and now you're having trouble with this campaign again. But I really wonder how much it cost us and if there's any measurable effect, and if there's gonna be others. 'Cause I hear there's gonna be other campaigns. Then I would like to answer the question, whether it is the department of strategic communication - because it says in these materials that existing personnel capacities must be strengthened - so I would like to know what Mr Klíma is really doing, how many people are doing it with him, how much is it costing us and how much money will be costing us the department at other departments, because there are already other departments coming with their own teams, such as KRIT at the Ministry of the Interior, to which I would like to address in the supplementary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will now receive an answer from the Prime Minister on your interview on the government's information campaign before the elections. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u28	Dear Member, of course I'd be happy to answer your question. As the campaign looks, you all see it, not just you, but citizens see it too, so it is clear that it is not a campaign to support the government or a campaign before the elections, but it has a completely different meaning, and I will explain it to you here, including why it was launched on that very date, i.e. on September 12th. At the end of August we completed the system of targeted measures to help citizens, it was the completion of the Umbrella versus the precious. To help, we have allocated a total of CZK 200 billion. In connection with how we approved the main aid package, the information campaign you are mentioning was launched, and it was September 12th. It certainly could not have been done sooner, and it would have no sense to do so later, because it was necessary to inform citizens of the help they could receive and where they could receive it. Since these new forms of assistance or widespread forms of assistance are indeed a number of, such an information campaign is quite appropriate. They are not standard instruments, we are not living in a normal situation, we are not in normal times, we need to take extraordinary measures and we also need to inform citizens about this. The campaign is completely apolitical, and anyone who looks at it can see that. This is an informative campaign that helps people to navigate the support that the state is giving them. [[15.10 hours]] The campaign was prepared by the Department of Strategic Communication at the Office of the Government in cooperation with the Army of the Czech Republic. It has many forms, from TV, radio spots to outdoor formats. Its main purpose is as follows: citizens often do not draw the help they are entitled to, because they do not know what assistance they are entitled to, they do not know that this aid exists, they fear that it may be administratively demanding, and this is the form that the state informs citizens, here you can turn to this place if you have problems. You are entitled to this assistance, so you can simply ask for it. And that, I think, is something the state should do. The information campaign and the new website Umbrella against expensively shows this to citizens and in my opinion it is the right way. The campaign also focuses on overcoming the shame of drawing aid and represents three main pillars of the government programme, i.e. a one-off contribution of CZK 5 000 per child, a contribution to housing and basic aid with a reduction in energy prices. Then it has other attributes, such as simplifying the way of using aid, promoting online communication between the citizen and the state, activating the company in this matter and so on. As regards the website Umbrella Against Delicateness, which is a signpost for state aid, citizens here have the opportunity to directly request assistance via online forms, they will also learn about the current forms of state aid, which are more than twenty. When you ask about further developments, yes, this site will be regularly updated and we will try to simplify communication as much as possible in the area of social, environmental, development programmes. This campaign is going on, as you said yourself, from September 12, 2022, until October 31, 2022. The budget for the campaign was CZK 30 million, the final competitive price including complex production is CZK 24.5 million. And I will also answer that question or comment that concerns the winning agency, so is the opinion of the Public Procurement Department. It's an agency that's listed as an official contractor. We can't evaluate anything other than the criteria of the competition, the competitive price, which was the most seriously low. And this agency is currently the largest media agency in the Czech Republic. [[Time.]] According to several indicators, it is normally awarded orders from commercial entities and state institutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u30	Time is short. I was mostly asking what this Mr. Klima is costing us and how many people he has there, how much it's gonna cost us and if there's other campaigns going on. We have information that other ministries and ministries want to make their own teams. And my supplementary question is for the KRIT, that's the new material from the Ministry of the Interior, where the moods of officials are to be watched, where radicalization in the state administration must be combated. I was wondering, is this part of some strategy you have? And again, I ask as an unfortunate taxpayer, what will it cost us and where will it stop? And at the end, I'm here because I don't have time, I'm just gonna read a little bit from voják Švejk that they were actually filling out that time... Officer Flanderka filled out a mood questionnaire between members of local government and intelligence or a mood questionnaire between those who are being executed and those who are to be taken, a questionnaire on how the local population behaves in terms of published war loans and collections, so I could continue. [[Time.]] I really don't want us to end up like voják Švejk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u31	Thank you. Is the Prime Minister interested in an answer? Yes. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u32	I agree with you that I wouldn't want us to turn out like we did in voják Švejk, which is why we're taking the steps we're doing. Everyone can look at it and see for themselves if the campaign they see has all the parameters that the information campaign is supposed to have, if the money was spent well and if it fulfilled its purpose. Of course, some evaluation will be available. We are also counting on other campaigns, I can promise you that other information campaigns from the state will be, because this is the right thing to do. And as for your particular question, how many people Mr. Klíma has there, I will also simply answer that. There are four people in that department, the Department of Strategic Communications of the Office of the Government, and these people are doing a lot of things on their own, so we're gonna save it for creativity, for buying more services. It is undoubtedly a way that is advantageous for the state and saves money for the state. I think we can agree that four people, if you look at the size of the campaign and the results, it's not that dramatic. And, of course, they also use - otherwise it would be impossible to do - that they also use the capacity offered by other parts of the state that have strategic communication in their job description. And I think we can agree on that, and it would be really naive, dangerous, and probably Cheyenne, if we really didn't have strategic communication on such resorts as defense or homeland. I can't even imagine. And it is these capacities that are used to build nothing more, but to coordinate it and put it together. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u33	Thank you for keeping time. We will now proceed to the fifth interview that Mr Radovan Vích has drawn. He will intersect the Prime Minister in the case of redundancies and increases in unemployment in the Czech Republic. And before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, I'll read an apology. Petra Quittová apologizes from 17 to 18 today for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, the representatives of your government and you personally claim that you will not let anyone fall. But how does this combine with the fact that many companies are currently shutting down their operations or gradually releasing their employees, and other companies are planning it, mainly because of the unbearable energy costs? Moreover, the view of the next months is similarly depressing. Is the government's aim to increase unemployment sharply in the Czech Republic, and is not your government able to provide sufficient support for firms in the Czech Republic? You have relied on a common European solution, but it does not seem that way. Germany, however, has massive support and support for its own companies. The meeting of energy ministers of the European Union in Prague did not bring any concrete proposals for the joint action, so the Hungarian minister flew straight to Moscow. Currently, Germany plans to significantly cap the price of gas for industry as well. There is also talk about the departure of Volkswagen Group's production plants from the Czech Republic, i.e. the Mladá Boleslav, Vrchlabí and Kvasiny. This would have a major impact on unemployment. But there is also talk of closing glassworks, bakeries and other businesses. Wouldn't it be better, Prime Minister, to stop relying on other Member States of the European Union to help the Czech Republic with energy in some way and finally start taking care of themselves? In the European Union, there is only a consensus on a common USB connector format for mobile phones, and that is very little. Prime Minister, why don't you put energy prices on the market directly from the manufacturers? Are you afraid of Germany? Are you afraid to withdraw from the Leipzig Energy Exchange and supply our businesses with our cheap energy at low prices and ensure that there is no redundancies and closure of companies and an increase in unemployment? What specific measures will you take to avoid increasing unemployment due to the energy crisis and when are you going to do it? [[Time.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u35	Thank you. The Prime Minister will answer your question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u36	I will actually answer about most of the questions you asked, even though there were a lot of them, and I will start with the basic motto of your question, interpellation, and that was that we rely on a European solution - you said that several times, but you could never hear anything like that from me. We do not rely on a European solution, we have prepared a national solution, but we are working on a European solution, and that is a big difference. And we are working on a European solution because we believe that the European solution is cheaper, more efficient and more favourable. So if anyone really wants to defend national interests, they must try to achieve a European solution and reduce energy prices on the basis of it. To compete in how we will subsidize - from what, too - how we will subsidize our own industry and compete with Germany and other rich countries, I consider the wrong path, and the path we have taken is already a success. Look at energy prices, their decline. I'm not saying that they are where we want them, not by a long shot, but the steps we have taken at a European level have led to the price of electricity falling. If we manage to complete the other things we call for, and this is a need to separate the price of gas from the price of electricity, or a ceiling on the price of gas used for the production of electricity, we will get even further in reducing the price, and this is a real step that will help the Czech Republic, which will help the Czech Republic and help our industry. Again, we do not rely on a European solution and we do not wait to see who comes up with what. We're active. Three times we have convened an extraordinary Council of Ministers for Energy, x the activities came from the Czech Presidency, which works, which other countries have adopted, and I think the general view is that the Czech Presidency is extremely active in this regard. We are active in every way, so we do not rely on a European solution, but in terms of the interest of the Czech Republic we consider it the most advantageous and we will not resign to achieve it. When it comes to unemployment and what we are doing to ensure that unemployment is not high, let us just remember - and let us not be frightened here - that there is therefore no dramatic development on the labour market so far. The unemployment rate reached 2,5 percent in August this year according to the EU methodology - let no one take my word for it - 2.6. It decreased by 0.4 percentage point year on year, with a slight increase in unemployment of 0.1 percentage point recently, but the value corresponds to the same period last year. The share of employees in the whole population of 15 to 64-year-olds reached 70,4% in August, i.e. an increase of 0,5 percentage points compared to 2021. And in this way, I could give other figures that show that there is no dramatic or negative development. What is positive is that the gap between the share of economically active men and women has also been reduced, which, for objective reasons, has probably not been achieved during the time of the Coronavirus crisis. The authorities register 256 thousand applicants for the last September, which is slightly more than in the previous month, and it is in line with the trends in individual years. According to two different statistics, our unemployment is either the lowest or the second lowest throughout the European Union. And there is also a need to talk to employers and businessmen. I do this regularly, and if you listen to what they say, they want us to liberalize the labour market and create better conditions for the arrival of people from abroad because they lack workers because they lack employees. Last time in this regard, a few days ago, the Union of Industry and Transport appealed to the Assembly in Brno, which I personally participated in. And even proof that there's room is how our businesses have managed to employ 100,000 Ukrainian refugees, so unemployment is not really at risk here at the moment and let's not scare her. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u37	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I see that Mr Vích is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, Prime Minister, I'm not entirely convinced by your answer, and if the Minister of Industry and Trade Síkela claims that large industrial enterprises should behave as medium and small, then perhaps the certainty of the owners or employers, of the large industrial enterprises, didn't disprove her, the doubts. I would like to ask you whether you can really guarantee that there will not be a significant increase in unemployment by closing our large industrial enterprises such as Škoda Mladá Boleslav, glassworks, metalworks and the like, which simply cannot compete with current energy prices as massive support for their industrial enterprises as in Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u40	It is not clear what, who can guarantee at the moment when we are faced with such terrible effects of the war conflict across Europe. But what I can guarantee is that our government is doing everything it can to prevent this critical development. I've already mentioned a number of steps that we've taken, a price cap - and that's also important. The ceiling on electricity and gas prices is not only for households and in combination with the public service state trader, which, by the way, is important also indirectly for entrepreneurs, but also thanks to the measures we have taken, the legislation that we have prepared and the decision that we have prepared at European level also serves directly to smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to whom they will significantly help. And as for the big ones, this is, of course, the biggest problem both in terms of European legislation and in terms of the amount of money that is needed, but here too, we are trying to take the steps that we can take, as I have reminded some of them here, including what we have done for energy-intensive companies, including that - the European thing again - the temporary crisis framework that companies want, thanks to which we can help the big and energy-intensive ones, and the Temporary crisis framework is by the end of this year. Once again, it is our job as president of the country to extend the Temporary Crisis Framework for next year - the task - it is our initiative. If we do, we'll have a better chance of helping companies. And then there's another thing that's also important in terms of employment and in terms of big companies, and that's the cursarbeit, and here the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already launched appropriate steps so that we can activate this mechanism. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u41	Thank you for keeping time and for your answer. We will now proceed to the sixth interpellation, which was drawn up by Mr Jan Síla, and will interpel the Prime Minister on censorship and its liquidation. Mr. Andrej Babiš will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u42	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, allow me to interpel you again, because I have already done so once on this subject, and this is censorship. My question - forward, I would say: how will the government defend freedom of speech and alternative views? In 1989 we rang the keys for the abolition of censorship in communist totalitarianism. I rang the bell, too, and I feel like after 30 years, it's back here. My initial interpelation took place during the period of closure or cancellation of the operation of alternative websites, and to date, measures are constantly increasing to limit freedom of speech. I understand your efforts or your government's efforts to silence uncomfortable opinions that expose its anti-human policy, which is designed to promote non-Czech interests, but above all to defend the interests of multinational corporations. What's misinformation? It's a message with deliberately false data. It's almost always just the opinions of other, multinational corporations that don't fit. Where the dissemination of opinion or information is contrary to the law, the authority empowered by law must decide to interfere with the dissemination, and this should most often be a court. A clear reason must be stated and this decision must be reviewed by an independent authority. [[15.30 hours]] Everyone has the right to their opinion, to be wrong, and to be ridiculed, but everyone also has the right to spread their views. It's an integral part of freedom of speech. It is therefore unacceptable to interfere with the dissemination of views that are not contrary to the law. The Institute of the Czech Republic prohibits Censorship without reservation. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u43	Thank you, too. I beg the Prime Minister's reply. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to reply to the honourable Member if I knew what he was asking, and I really did not. I am convinced that we live, not that I am convinced, objectively living in a free society, where everyone can say their opinion as they think it is necessary, can spread it through all sorts of ways. Different opinions and those which do not always defend the interests of Czech citizens and the Czech Republic appear in public space are also represented in politics, as we have seen recently in the campaign before municipal and senate elections. Nobody's stopping anything, no one's censoring anything, we don't have any organs that deal with censorship, so it's really hard to tell what world you live in and what conspiracy theories your mind is in. We are not under the control of any multinational corporations here, nor do I know what and why, but, as a government of the Czech Republic, we respect the full constitutionality, the laws of the Czech Republic and guarantee all human rights and freedoms to the extent that democratic society has established them. It's a thing that matters a lot to me personally because I have experience in life in a totalitarian dictatorship. I remember what it was like, and I would never want us to take any step towards restoring censorship, restricting freedom or anything like that, and I would be the first to compete with those who would want something like that. The government doesn't do anything like that either, it doesn't initiate anything like that, it doesn't have any tools. It does not restrict or prohibit the media, unlike previous practice, nor do we separate anyone from press conferences and other things. Just freedom of speech, the freedom to express itself here is complete and in this regard I am glad that this is the case. We have also been better evaluated by international institutions in recent times with regard to the index evaluating the level of freedom of the press, and we have moved here with the accession of a new government in this international ranking, that is also to be said, because there are independent institutions that evaluate what freedom of the press is in individual countries. Whatever we think of these rankings, the movement of the Czech Republic up here is obvious. You may be referring to another matter, and that is that some disinformation sites are being blocked at the moment, but not on the basis of decisions or recommendations of the Czech Government, because we have no mandate to do so, but the shutdown of Russian media has been ordered by the Council of the European Union in the framework of sanctions measures. The last time this Regulation was extended within the framework of the sixth penalty package, where the spectrum of Russian disinformation means was expanded. The blocking of the web may be decided by telecommunications operators, but the government here has no possibility to demand or enforce anything, and the measures I mentioned here are pan-European measures, not specifically Czech measures. So let me sum up: We don't take any censorship steps, we don't want to do them, we never would have thought of it, and even if it had occurred to anyone, we can't even do them in Czech legislation. Citizens express their views freely in the form of various media, no one is stopping them. They can also express themselves in the form of demonstrations and other things. Everything, all the instruments of expression, the free expression of opinion that we remember, can be fully applied in the Czech Republic, and I think our system is even more liberal in this regard than it is in some other democratic countries. And I say for myself that this is a good thing, because freedom of speech is extremely important to political culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. Is the Member interested in an additional question? He does, so you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to clarify what I was really up to, and that is the office of government official Michal Klíma as the chief expert in misinformation. Then it is the creation of a special unit at the Ministry of the Interior called KRIT, or Crisis Information Team, to focus on the detection of unwanted moods and attitudes in society. It has its tasks summarised in three points: it is an anonymous monitoring of mood in state and public administration, early identification of persons who can spread antisystem sentiments and their involvement in dialogue, secondly create and improve internal communication channels that enable two-way communication along the vertical axis, and, at ++ the third, actively and empirically empathically collect critical stimuli and consistently avoid bagging reactions. That's what I was going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u47	Thank you, Member, the Prime Minister will answer your supplementary question. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u48	Yes, that's two things. I'll try to answer both. The first concerns a government media agent and misinformation. In the description of the work, it is intended to coordinate the activities of the government's components, to promote strategic communication, to prepare comments on materials and proposals processed and submitted for discussion by the government concerning media, disinformation and related matters, and this corresponds to the government's intention to seek ways to strengthen the role of high-quality professional media, to weaken the influence of disinformation media - to do so we certainly report, to promote media literacy, to lead people to recognize for themselves which sources of information are trustworthy and which are not. These are things that are simply, as a standard government media agent and misinformation, focused on, and certainly not something that is related to censorship or anything like that. The second issue concerns the Ministry of the Interior, which is really responsible for drawing up new legislation, which could lead to blocking some websites. It is a very sensitive issue, we are aware of that and therefore it must be well prepared legislatively. But it doesn't come from our government's decision. Here we are happy to follow up on the activities of the Government of Andrej Babiš, which adopted the National Strategy for the Leadership of Hybrid Threats and the Action Plan for this Strategy, and this resulted in the tasks that are gradually being accomplished. And I am pleased to say here that there is continuity in the state administration's activities as regards this strategy against hybrid threats and the preparation of the steps that lead to strengthening the security of the Czech Republic. [[Time!]] This continuity is certainly desirable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. We will now proceed to the seventh interpellation drawn by President Andrej Babiš. The Prime Minister will intersect the matter of government inaction. Mr Karel Sládeček will be prepared further. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u50	Prime Minister, when I listen to you, I feel that not only do you live in the Czech Republic, but you don't live in Europe. Oh, my God, who's texting you? Why do you keep lying? I had a completely different interview, you lied today that we weren't dealing with emission allowances. I wrote Ursula and Charles Michel a letter, I wrote a letter to all prime ministers, I got off five times. Don't tell me there were no serious negotiations. You're just repeating your lies again. Green Deal - how many times has Vondra lied? I fought with the Polish Prime Minister that we do not have a commitment to 55 percent reduction in emissions. Why do you keep telling lies? You lie in speeches, you lie in the union of industry. Why are you doing this? Why are you still attacking? Why aren't you acting normal? [[15.40 hours]] What you've done since 1. Seven? You have not called a single European Council. So I'm asking, why didn't you call? That your worst Minister Síkela has called four councils, and the result is zero? That's your result. What did you do in person? Emmanuel Macron, under his presidency, had seven advice - two extraordinary, two proper - you will still have two proper - informal meetings. You had an informal meeting - at the castle, thanks to me, I pushed through it, you didn't have to do anything. We had Porto-Sibiu in areas that were a disaster. Yes, I wanted the Hradčany, I convinced the President. You didn't have a bilateral meeting! You were with the British Prime Minister. Why didn't you and Erdogan talk about migration? Why didn't you call? Number four, now that the Slovák and our cops are returning the migrants? Why didn't you call? Four? From 1. 7. you have done nothing at all, nothing at all. [[Time.]] You've totally missed a chance to push for something!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u51	čas, please. Thank you for keeping time. And now you'll get the answer to your question. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u52	Thank you, Madam President. President Babiš, well, I don't know if you had any other interpellation. You certainly do not show great activity and your interpelation - Inactivity of the Government. And you don't have much creativity because you've given me five interviews, they're all called Inaction of the Government, so they're all the same. I don't suppose you had any other content. And I must say something sad about your words, because you repeatedly accuse yourself of not only telling the truth, but that you do not actually understand what is happening in the European Union, so I am not surprised that you did not have any results at all and that the Czech Republic is paying for it. [[An outrage in the YES benches.]] You didn't negotiate European allowances, you didn't do anything about it. We have achieved concrete results for the Czech Republic, I have named them here during previous interventions. You don't have any results. You even sat in a meeting where you didn't even know you approved of Green Deal. And you're repeatedly telling us that you didn't agree to it and that that's not true at all. But that's just political reality. I understand you're upset about the successful summit - or I don't understand, but I can imagine - the successful summit we had here. [[An explosion of laughter in the YES benches.]] By the way, they were two events, that's a need to explain, too, because the public noticed, you probably didn't. One was the informal meeting of the European Council and the other was the first meeting of the European political community. I don't know how you thought I didn't have bilateral meetings, I had a lot of them, but mostly I don't do them on Instagram like you do when you catch up with someone at the hotel, so you take a picture right away. I am dedicated to real diplomacy and to getting some results for the Czech Republic. Don't confuse this meeting with Liz Truss, I met her several times during the summit, of course, but what happened and what you saw in the media was a normal interstate bilateral negotiation that was outside the summit, so let's not mix apples with pears again. And then one important thing - the Council of Ministers is convened by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, and this is a minister from a country chaired by the Council of the European Union, because it is also called not the Presidency of the EU, but the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. That's where the relevant minister calls it. I actually asked Minister Síkela to convene the Council meeting, he did it, so we had some informal advice, we regularly convene the Council of Ministers where we can. But I do not understand that you do not know that the Prime Minister or the President of that country is at the head of the European Council, but that he has his chair, and this is Charles Michel, who is calling the council. And, of course, I agree with him when we will convene the Council, what its content will be, but the primary responsibility for this call is, of course, to the President of the European Council. So much for explaining what is actually going on in Europe and how these things are going on. The Czech Presidency is very active and this is not only reflected in the fact that we have some photos somewhere, but it is reflected mainly in the results. And in terms of results, such as the environmental ministers' meeting, these are the allowances for the heat plants that I was talking about here, that's the automatic mechanism for the ceiling of allowances that we pushed through there. Or, as regards the negotiations of the Energy Council, the principle of solidarity in terms of gas, and other and other things that I have already had the opportunity to report on in the framework of the consultations, these are concrete results for citizens of the Czech Republic. Yes, it does not mean that someone did not say anything but that it was not really the subject of negotiations, that is true. We have succeeded in making this the subject of negotiations, that the mechanism is being adjusted and that it is changing. And if you want to help this, ask your MEPs for the YES movement, who sometimes behave quite strangely in the voting process, whether they are more active, to help the trialogue that is currently going on about the very thing that we have negotiated, that is, to modify emission allowances, where, among other things, the adjustment of emission allowances is to speed up and not to be pushed forward by the European Parliament. Because if anyone does not want to change the emission allowances system, it is the majority in the European Parliament, and that needs to be changed. So if you want to achieve something in Europe, you have to work according to what the organ is designed to do, and there you have to achieve some results. We have the results. Unfortunately, your government did not have any results in European politics, and the Czech Republic is paying for this not only in the past, but also now. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u53	Thank you. Is President Babiš interested in an additional question? He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u54	I really enjoy having the Prime Minister lecture me on the European Council. Of course I know! I sat there for four years. You've been avoiding it, and you've left the advice on December 16th to me on purpose. What are you talking about? I've pushed what? We've stopped quotas for illegal migrants. I brought extra 42 billion, 1,000 billion Modernization Fund, 1,000 billion European funds. So what are you talking about? Taxonomy, the word bark, woods, gas, core - that's all I've done. And where'd you keep the bilateral? Yes, Macron had a summit. We ordered the Castle, and you welcomed it on the carpet, that's all. Macron followed me from Hilton to Buddha-Bar (?) and I had 30 minutes of bilateral. You didn't have either. Orbán met Morawiecki. When Ursula dealt with Erdogan, you were sitting there as a co-chair. You didn't do anything, you didn't call for any special advice. You should have called Michel, as I called when Belarus was with Morawiecki Angele: Do the advice immediately. [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]] Then don't lie! You have failed completely. You are incompetent and you have missed the historic chance of the Presidency in favour of the Czech Republic. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[Prime Minister, you're running out of time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u55	I beg you to keep your time. This applies to you and to every other Member. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u56	I don't expect much, but you would think that even a representative of the opposition will be interested in the good name of the Czech Republic and the good results and will enjoy them. And we were the center of attention not only to Europe but also to the whole world. We had the opportunity here to welcome statesmen from all over Europe, create room for negotiations and promote Czech national interests, which you have never succeeded. I understand that you cannot judge what a representative of the host country is supposed to do during the summit. You've never organized such a summit, nor would you have organized it, so I don't blame you. But some of the things you attribute to yourself are really wrong, and it's also funny. Maybe if we look at the taxonomy you just mentioned, just look at the dates when the taxonomy was decided. Everyone will find that this is the result of our government's work, that this is the result of my negotiations in the European Parliament, that this is the result of the work of our MEPs, who have played a huge role in this, and that this taxonomy would not have moved anywhere if we had not done this and convinced others how important the core is to us and what it means to us. And if you mention the last summit you attended, I just couldn't go there because there was no government at the time, otherwise, of course, I'd like to go there. And I'd like to go there because these things would finally move as they move now, and we couldn't possibly get what happened to you, that you just accepted Green Deal, and you still don't even know about it. This is the only result of your European policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u57	Thank you for your answer. We will now proceed to the eighth interview that Mr Karel Sládeček will give on the matter of Minister Síkela, who urges companies to cheat. Mr. Oldřich Černý will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you how you feel about the speech by Minister Síkela, when big companies urged the Association of Industry and Transport to cheat and pretend to be small and medium-sized. Let me quote the speech by Minister Síkela to remind you: "I can imagine that, in the definition of small and medium-sized companies, we will probably be able to turn a blind eye within the disputed limits. That means, I recommend to all great people, look like small and medium, at least for a transitional period." Said the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Síkela. I listened to the entire speech of Minister Síkela, and everyone who listened to this performance heard with their own ears that there really was no exaggeration. The Minister is directing large businesses to cheat, for which they can also be brought to justice. That's really over the line. When will you finally call off Minister Síkela and replace him with the real energy expert that our companies and citizens deserve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Prime Minister will answer your question. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for reminding the Council of the Confederation of Industry and Transport. I was a part of it, and I heard the comment of Minister Síkela in person. Let me just remind you that the House took place during the International Engineering Fair, it is such an informal holiday of the Czech industry, and it is good that the members of the government participate because it also gives it prestige, but at the same time it is an opportunity to talk to a lot of entrepreneurs and gain knowledge of how the government can support the business sector even more. And that's what happened at the fair. The main theme that the Association of Industry accompanied was energy, energy prices, which affect our companies as much as citizens. I had the opportunity to perform there, too, and in that speech I summed up the steps that the government is doing to help the business sector, and I think some of them are good to recall in response to your question, because it is important. The first area that entrepreneurs are calling for and where we have made significant progress is simplifying rules and reducing bureaucracy. I remind you that we're canceling the mandatory EET, but we're also preparing a second anti-bureaucratic package. We have simplified our business with the so-called oil trifle, which included a reduction in oil tax, the end of mandatory biofuels, the control of margins at petrol stations. In addition, we postponed the VAT payment until the end of October, we abolished the road tax for trucks. Entrepreneurs also asked for the speedy completion of the relevant regulations for cursarbeit, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already started to do this in agreement with the social partners. The government is preparing two regulations defining the aid scheme. The first will respond to interruption or limitation of gas supply, the second will deal with possible failure in supplier-customer chains. Both measures require the notification of the European Commission, but we have moved forward here and it is exactly what entrepreneurs need. Entrepreneurs at the Assembly and before that meeting we had called for the accelerated approval of EGAP Plus and its announcement. This programme, drawn up on the basis of the Temporary Crisis Framework, will enable entrepreneurs to provide guarantees for new individual loans, working capital and investments. A week ago - 14 days ago, this program went through the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, energy issues are the most pressing for entrepreneurs, and here we have also taken important steps that have been postponed for a long time. We have unlocked the tender for the completion of the nuclear power plant in Dukovany, which we have launched, preparing a hot water line from Dukovan to Brno. With regard to energy prices, in June, we approved a regulation that will allow for the remission of the fee for supported energy sources. On September 12, the government approved an amendment to the Energy Act, which allowed us to ceiling the prices of power electricity and gas, and this concerns, as I also had the opportunity to say in the interpellations, not only households, not just the public sector, but also small and medium-sized enterprises and businessmen. We will also help small, medium-sized enterprises and businessmen with a guarantee for operating commercial credit under the Guarantee, EXPANZE programme - guarantees, so I could continue with these specific measures. Of course, we also deal with the large energy-intensive sectors. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is currently preparing support under the Temporary Crisis Framework, and as of 1 November, companies will be able to apply for support for which we have allocated CZK 300 billion. We have a program for large energy users, they can count on support of up to CZK 200 million, so I can continue. These are the things we talked about with representatives of the Confederation of Industry and Transport. Specific things, concrete steps the government is taking. I must say that entrepreneurs appreciated the government's actions in most areas, they would obviously want stronger support for the largest businesses, for industry, but they themselves objectively acknowledged that this is the hardest and that nowhere in Europe has a good solution been found. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u61	Thank you for your answer. Is the Member interested in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u62	Thank you. Prime Minister, I may have bad ears, but you haven't answered my questions - never mind. I know you were at the meeting. And if you were sitting there, why didn't you respond? Isn't that a charge against a criminal offence under Section 364 of the Penal Code?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u63	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in answering. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u64	I answered you, Mr. Ambassador, because I was telling you the overall context in which the debate was going on, and I was actually reminding you how important it is that ministers are there and that they respond and can listen to incentives from entrepreneurs. And I would just repeat - yes, I was there myself, and I heard the statement of Minister Síkela. Now, why didn't I respond to him? Well, if you pull that statement out of context, it's not a statement, it's neither correct nor appropriate, and we could definitely pause over it. But just because I was sitting there listening, as Minister Síkela said, and as the moderator responded, it was clear to all that this was an exaggeration, an attempt to lighten up, a joke, and at the same time an expression that the government would try to find ways to help entrepreneurs in a maximum way. No one at that moment simply took it literally, maybe one sitting there from the YES movement, but otherwise no one took it literally, everyone considered it a bit lightening in the debate. I am really sorry - and will have to be more careful with what they are saying - because I am really sorry that this remark has damaged the performance because the performance of Minister Síkela was very well-founded. The Minister provided the business public with answers to a lot of questions, talking about topics that businessmen raised. I think that, overall, there in that context was a very positive and positive view of his speech. Then there was this comment, which became this case, but, as I say, I didn't respond to it, among other things, because I perceived it exactly like the hundreds of people who were in that room - as an exaggeration, as something that was not meant seriously.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u65	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time. And since it is 4:00 p.m., the time has passed when it is possible to submit the last oral interview to the Prime Minister under the Rules of Procedure. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I therefore call on Mr Zdeněk Kettner to give an interview to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Vladimír Balaš, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpellation of Members. The Member will intercede with Minister Balaš in the matter of elections in the middle schools. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, and I am handing over the meeting proceedings. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u66	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here to hear his answer live, which I am sorry. The point is, we have a People in Need organization here. It is an organization that I have always appreciated, and I have supported it financially, but unfortunately it has embezzled its name and started to have so-called political programs. These include the so-called election of the dry land. As part of teaching social sciences, I trained with children what elections look like, but I never thought to use real political parties in my life. Kids were starting up sides in style: we're shutting down penalties and we want to cancel oral testing, they've created their own program. And now, here under Man in distress, the One World program in schools, we've got elections in the air, where, just before the election, real political subjects, their real programs are being used. The elections will take place and the results will be published before the real elections. For me, it's just something unacceptable. Legislation is clear: promoting political movements, opinions and so on in schools is inadmissible. And now I have learned that something similar will happen again, now for a change before the presidential elections, where the real presidential candidates will be again, and once again those results will be announced before the real, real elections. So I would ask three questions to the Minister if he knows about this program. If he agrees with me - thank you - if he agrees that this is really a problem, because it is contrary to legislation. [[The Minister enters the Chamber.]] And if we agree that this is contrary to legislation, what the Ministry of Education will give an opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u67	Thank you, too. The Minister of Education has arrived at the O.R., so I'll give him the floor right away and he can respond to your question. Minister, your five minutes. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna take a little breath, but thank you for the question. I think that, in general, the electoral campaign does not belong in schools, and in the end, the school law also prohibits this in its Section 32 para. 1, but the question is, what is this election campaign? And if a teacher who does something like that isn't himself a part of the campaign, it could be on the verge. You know lawyers. But in general, I think that if the school wants to raise our pupils and students to civic awareness, then it can do it in other ways, it doesn't have to be associated with specific names. The possibility of facing this in some way, or if there are doubts as to whether the provisions of the law are being complied with, can, for example, be turned to a school inspection. Thus, it is primarily the role of director, and if the director is not satisfied with how he stands up to it or the school management in general, it is possible to contact a school inspection that could investigate something like this. But it actually occurs to me that we're talking about the election campaign. I have been watching carefully the interpretation of President Okamura's referendums this morning. I think that it might be worth thinking about the issue of political campaigns in general, because even in this case there may be misinformation and distortion of what is to be the subject of a referendum, and the problem could be wider. Then the question is - it's probably more complicated in the presidential election because there's no political entity, any party or movement, but there's an individual running there who may not have anything to do with any party. So I'm just saying that the interpretation may be different, but I generally agree with you that such a tough political campaign that encourages students to have preferences does not belong in schools. Thank you. I don't know if that's enough - thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u68	I thank the Minister and ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? It's not like that. I shall now give the floor to Mr Robert Králíček, who was drawn in second place, to present the oral questioning to the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan. Mrs Ivana Štefanová will be ready and Mr králíček will interpel on the number of police officers. Ambassador, your two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u69	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I could say dear survivors, because there are not many of us here. I am very sorry that I cannot intersect Minister Rakušan. I confess that this morning I overheard the reason why he was excused for interpelling because I remember that he was one of those who very, very intensely criticized the government of Andrej Babiš for not going to interpelation and that, as a opposition, they were denied the right to interpelate, thereby withholding the opportunity to discuss. I'm a little sorry, because after we've listened here, when Prime Minister Fiala insulted us, what a bad opposition we are, and everything we've ruined, I'm sorry that even the First Deputy Prime Minister can't come up with this interview to discuss serious issues, because for me, what's going on in the police is a serious issue. And I'm sorry that I can't put him through this interpellation, so all I have to do is ask for a vote to interrupt this interpelation into the presence of the Home Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u70	Minister... [[Fun.]] Well, Mr. Ambassador, I've been looking at the list of apologies, and the Home Secretary is excused all day on account of a foreign trip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u71	Well, I'm sorry about that. I didn't know it was a foreign trip, but I guess he couldn't reschedule it, but I'm still sorry I couldn't interpel with him, and my request to interrupt this interpelation to the minister's presence is ongoing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u72	Mr President, it is not possible to vote on such an interruption under the Rules of Procedure. If you read the interview, the Minister is obliged to reply in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you don't read the interview, you will wait for the minister to be present and you will withdraw the interview de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u73	Well, I'll let her fail, and I'll read it when the minister's here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u74	Thank you very much. The next will be Mrs Štefanová Iveta, who was drawn as the third for oral questioning. He will intersect Minister Síkela on the issue of temperature reduction in buildings. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u75	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, my intervention concerns the resolution of the crisis situation in the case of a lack of energy which is addressed by the prepared decree from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, a decree laying down specific rules on heating and the supply of hot water in the event of an emergency or an emergency. It sets maximum temperatures in rooms, even in residential buildings and their living rooms, including children's rooms, where this temperature is even 18 degrees Celsius. My question, however, concerns checks, which according to my information should be held by the owner of the property, who should report this to the State Energy Inspection, which will then carry out the inspection, and then the cases, as I have read, will be dealt with individually, i.e. on a case-by-case basis, and will never be fined by the household. [[16.10 hours]] Does that mean, Minister, that the owner does, there will be penalties or other penalties for the owner of the property? If I'm the owner of the house, will someone oblige me to do the checks? Will anyone check whether the owner is carrying out the check and whether he correctly indicates the possible non-compliances found in the inspection? I ask you to explain how this solution, which we hope will not happen at all, will work in practice as the government imagines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u76	Thank you. The Minister of Industry and Trade of Síkela will now have the floor. Minister, please, your five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u77	Mr President, Madam Members, honourable Members and honourable Members, I am sorry, I have said this wrong. And even before I address the issue of sanctions, checks and penalties, it is very important, from my point of view, to explain why we have actually taken measures in relation to energy savings and temperature regulation. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has prepared a draft decree laying down specific rules on heating and supply of hot water in response to a possible shortage of natural gas in view of the Russian Federation's military aggression vis-à-vis Ukraine in the event of, and I would like to emphasise, preventing an emergency or declaring an emergency. I would like to remind you that since February 2022 there has been a significant decline in gas supply to the European Union from the Russian Federation, namely to the Czech Republic. It is a gas of 153 billion ccs, which cannot be replaced from one day to the next. This reduction in supply has caused historically the highest energy prices in the Czech Republic, contributing to inflation and creating a risk of further economic downturn in Europe. In view of these circumstances, the proposed adjustment is intended to lead to direct energy savings and a reduction in fossil fuel consumption, including natural gas, while maintaining acceptable heat comfort requirements and the supply of hot water. The draft decree provides for indoor air temperatures in residential and non-residential rooms in buildings in order to prevent an emergency and in an emergency in the heating sector. In order to save heat energy, the decree allows lower indoor air temperatures to be achieved compared to the proposed building design temperatures. In the living rooms, the indoor air temperatures range from 18 to 21 degrees. The requirements laid down in the draft decree are in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and have been prepared in cooperation with colleagues from the Ministry of Health and comply with their regulations for this area. The draft decree does not introduce any new checks against the current state of affairs, that is to say, against the legislation that was here before the introduction of this decree. The obligations laid down in the Decree concern the owners of the buildings, not the users themselves. The existing or planned legislation with area checks in the apartments does not count. The decree was sent to an interdepartmental notice procedure, which recommended adjusting the temperature level for selected types of buildings, such as schools and childcare facilities, social services accommodation and medical facilities. The Ministry of Industry and Trade accepted these comments, incorporated them into the draft decree and continues to settle other comments of all comment points. So I thank you for your interest in this issue of heating buildings and thermal well-being, and I want to assure you that the proposed decree will not lead to a threat to the health of our citizens, nor to any new bullying beyond the laws that have been in force in this country until this legislative draft has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u78	I thank the Minister and ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? Yes, it is, so your minute to the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u79	Yes, thank you for your answer, Minister. This is how I understood it was a kind of crisis plan, and the decree would apply at the time of the previous emergency or emergency. That's how I understood it and so I said my question, although with some temperatures, I completely disagree from a medical point of view. I'm not gonna argue that you've dealt with this across the resorts, and my question was only about the checks, if there's any special controls. After all, this is a certain change in the amount, in many of these cases there are significant changes in the amount of those temperatures, so my question was on those checks - whether it is that we actually want to save this in some crisis situation, which I hope will not happen, it will in some way check more across the board whether it is being observed. But I got it right, so no, there aren't any general controls planned. Well, thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u80	Thank you, Madam. I'm asking the Minister if he wants to use the rights to follow up? It's not like that. [[Call off the microphone.]] In the end, yes. Please have two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u81	I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a decree which is currently only in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. The draft decree was addressed to 21 entities from the original 8 bodies. [[8 out of 21 originally?]] The interreviewal commentary procedure was limited by the decision of the Minister for Legislation and the settlement of comments is still ongoing. This is only in response to the fact that you may disagree with certain heat limits. But that's why we have an inter-resorative commentary procedure so that we have a decree that will fulfill the purpose we want. I suppose that the decree would have come into force in December, at the latest from 1 January, and the decree is actually preventive, is something that tells us that we should be humbled in times of crisis, because if we didn't, the consequences could be even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u82	Thank you, Minister. I will now give the floor to Mr Patrik Nacher, who was drawn as the fourth to present an oral interview with Minister Bartoš, on the matter of the Ministry of Regional Development's decree - an 80% average heat bill. Ambassador, please, you have the floor and two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u83	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I don't see the Minister here. So I have to say, I'm a loser because I have an interpelation written, oral, mostly always for ministers who aren't here. Maybe next time, at the beginning of Thursday, I'll wait to see who's excused, and then I'll put an interview on the ministers who are here. But then the interpellation won't have the authenticity and topicality. In this case, I'll wait for a written copy from the Ministry of Regional Development. What's going on? This is a very common question right now, when people are being asked to save money. There is a decree of the Ministry of Regional Development No. 269/2015, which actually says it averages so that when you save too much, you pay, I mean now the heat, you pay 80 percent of the diameter of the house or the entrance. When it's a lot, the upper limit is 200 percent, so it's between 80 and 200 percent. And I've been approached by people, not only in the campaign, as things go according to the fact that people are asked to save money, but at the same time when they save power, they're going to increase it up to 80 percent of the diameter of the house anyway. [[16.20 hours]] And my question is simple. In my day, it probably made some sense in terms of some greater justice, I looked at it as a justification, then in 2015, and then it was called "unhealthy investigation" - when it doesn't drown at all, there are molds in the apartments, it damages the real estate, even public spaces. But if it isn't worth changing and updating this in the current situation. [[Vice-President: Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u84	Thank you. So I understand that you have read the interview, and the Minister will answer you within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I give the floor to Mrs Lenka Knechtová, who was drawn as the fifth in the order of oral interpellation to Mr Vice Prime Minister Rakušan on the matter Does this coalition really want to save?. Mr. Kubíček will be ready. Madame, please, you have two minutes for your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u85	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear absent minister. After the election was sent to all municipalities e-mail from the Ministry of the Interior, where they inform new representatives of their role, duties and much more. The Ministry also offers many courses including e-learning. All of this is godly and with regard to modern times appropriate. Thank you for the electronic brochure, which is nicely processed, and there is nothing to blame for it. What puzzled me, however, is the information that the brochure will be printed and distributed through all ORPs for all newly elected representatives. At a time of crisis, we ask everyone to save money, but we can study the brochure electronically. Let's save money for the state, which is why I'm asking about the budget of the whole operation. The number of copies, the price of printing, I assume colored publications, the price of distribution to the ORP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u86	Thank you very much, Madame. The Minister is excused, so he will also respond to your intervention in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days. And I will give the floor to Mr Kubíček, who was drawn as the sixth in order to give an interview to Minister Síkela on the aid of heating. Mr. Zlínský will be ready. Ambassador, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. My question will be very quick. We are also watching in the press announcements of various heat plants about increasing prices, the most increasing prices of course the gas plants, but for example now the announcement from SAKO Brno will come about about the increase in the price of heat plants products. Minister, do you have projects prepared to promote heating and to mitigate impact, both for households and for industrial heat, which means for companies that use heat to prepare their products? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u88	Thank you. The Minister of Industry, Mr Síkela, who will respond to your interpellation, is now speaking. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u89	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Members. Several measures have been taken to help Czech heating and fuel security in the current international situation as well as rising energy commodity prices, which aim to overcome this period and to ensure sufficient heat energy, especially for heating. The current situation is most affecting producers of heat from natural gas. Therefore, a price cap was set for gas sources, which should have a positive impact on the level of heat prices from these sources, since if gas prices were reflected in the heat price, this price would be unacceptable for customers. We consider the introduction and approval of materials to prevent an emergency in the heating sector and the adaptation of the Ministry of Environment's decree on the permissible level of pollution and its detection and the implementation of certain other provisions of the Air Protection Act, which will allow the use for the production and supply of heat of a source such as coal, light fuel oil, lubricant at sources that would otherwise have to be shut down due to non-compliance with emission limits. That is why we have also proposed the inclusion of heating under the so-called Temporary Crisis Framework as a programme notified by the European Commission for Support. The European Commission is receiving notification management of the so-called transitional heat transformation aid, which should allow for the compensation of part of the emission allowances costs, which significantly burden the heat producers financially and which are reflected in the final heat price. However, in this context, I have two points to make. The notification has been underway for two years and has been launched under the guidance of my predecessor, Mr. Minister for YES, Karel Havlíček. It started in 2019 as part of the notification of the entire Act on Renewable Resources. In 2020, at second reading, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský had a provision on transitional transformation heat support loaded for YES. The Commission was informed of this change. However, I can say that, in essence, something has been launched in the process, which is almost unnotifiable under European laws. It will not fit under the GBER, which is the block exemption regulation, and it will not even fit under the public aid clause. That is why the legislative process ended in January 2021, and I am trying to adjust this matter after taking up office by trying to include the heat industry in the so-called Temporary Crisis Framework, where there is greater flexibility. I have dealt with this topic even with Commissioner Margrethe Vestager this week, where I called for some solution in connection with the fact that the heating and supply of households in the Czech Republic is a little differently organized in Western Europe and that up to 40% of households depend on it. For renewable sources it has already been possible to ensure the compatibility of operating aid for heat from renewable sources, up to 20 megawatts, for large sources the notification procedure is being completed over 20 megawatts, for biomass sources the so-called maintenance support has been introduced. Negotiations are ongoing with a view to adapting the EU rules, this is the GBER regulation, so that smaller and medium-sized sources for heating, including cogeneration, could be inferior to investment subsidies and operating aid under this Regulation and there was no need to implement time and factually complex notification procedures. To resolve the situation in the long term, material was developed to assess the decarbonisation of district heating in the Czech Republic, and to transform Czech heating industry there are set considerable investment subsidies, both for sources and for heat distributions, especially in the Modernization Fund and the Operational Programme Technology and Applications for Competitiveness. [[Time, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u90	I thank the Minister and ask whether the Member is interested in asking an additional question? Yes, he does. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u91	Thank you. I have an additional question. We were talking about emission allowances, which is actually a considerable financial burden for individual heat plants, and I wanted to ask if it is working to withdraw emission allowances from the secondary market, because we know that they have become the subject of speculation. And another thing - how the emission reduction mechanism has actually been set up, and for this difficult time, whether these emission allowances will be allowed to continue to be used on the European market without restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u92	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the Minister for Supplementary Answers. Your two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u93	I am to be intersected in the second part or later in the issue of emission allowances by Mr Koten, as I have seen the question of interspiracy, so I will use at least part of that time. The Prime Minister spoke about it today, as I had the opportunity to watch his performance. The current role of emission allowance prices in view of the evolution of electricity prices is significant but not decisive. At this point, all prices are pushing up primarily natural gas. But, of course, the emission allowances have indirect effects in the form of the transition of a part of coal resources to gas sources, but the main role is to deepen dependence on gas imports. There is a consensus within the European Union at expert level that current electricity prices or fluctuations are not primarily due to emission allowances. There are different views on this within different Member States. As a member country, we have expressed the view that, as an emergency crisis measure in the event of war, we can imagine either a temporary reduction in trade in emission allowances or a higher issue from the market reserve. At this point, however, there is no single qualified majority opinion on this issue, but this will certainly continue to be discussed, and I will then allow myself to answer Mr Koten in the second part if he is interested in further discussion. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u94	I thank the Minister, and now I give the floor to Mr Zlínský, who was drawn with order number 7, for an interview with Minister Válek, the Minister of Health, on the issue of e-crisis for the personal use of doctors. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u95	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, dear absent Minister Válek, I have been approached by representatives of the employees' doctors about the problems they have encountered due to the impossibility of prescribing drugs on their leave. The point is that according to the interpretation of Act No. 378/2007 Sb., on pharmaceuticals, and Decree No. 329/2019 Coll., on the prescription of medicinal products in the provision of health services by representatives of the Ministry of Health, the doctor-employee does not have outside his working hours the legal possibility of prescription drugs without the employer's consent unless this gives him his part of the e-recept certificate, even for his personal use, even if he is willing to pay for the drugs himself, which is therefore a rather absurd matter. Doctors - seniors, doctors on maternity leave, doctors not engaged in a medical profession are not restricted by law or by decree of a prescription, they can prescribe medicines for their own use. There is therefore clear discrimination, where doctors practicing a medical profession are forced to circumvent either the law, i.e. a crisis is ensured by their colleague, who is at work, or they themselves have to arrive at a hospital or at the LSPP for treatment, which is then invoiced to health insurance companies. Thus, the legislation creates a completely absurd situation where a doctor can treat other people and possibly himself during the practice period, but he must not prescribe any medication after working time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u96	Thank you for loading the interpellation. The Minister of Health is excused, so he will answer you in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I give the floor to Mrs Pošarová, who was drawn as the eighth to interpel to Minister Bartoš on the matter of grant policy. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u97	Thank you for the floor. I have one question. I believe in February the reception of applications for the call of Technical Infrastructure for networking and communication of new residential zones ended. At some point in May, June the municipalities were informed that they had been accepted or rejected. Nothing's happened since then. In spite of an emergency, municipalities are still waiting to sign grant contracts. I'd like to ask you how it looks, if there's chaos at the Ministry of Regional Development or when they'll get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u98	Thank you for loading the interpellation. Minister Bartoš is excused, so he will answer you in writing within 30 days according to the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to Mr Radek Vondráček for an interview with the Minister of Industry and Trade of Síkela. Mr. Vondráček was drawn as the ninth in line, but I don't see him in the hall, so his interpellation is failing, and I give the floor... [[Member Vondráček enters the hall.]] He's here, so at the last moment, Mr. Vondráček to interpel. You almost lost her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My interpelation applies to the Minister of the Interior and to this material, which is called Radicalisation of civil and public administration personnel, a preliminary warning. I wanted to ask the Minister how this is actually meant, because here in the beginning it says that there is a political conflict in this country whether the energy crisis will be interpreted as a failure of the state or as a result of the Russian energy war, when it aims to decompose Czech society. People are extremely worried about the future, they're insecure, they often don't know how to pay their electricity bills and whether they'll have the basic needs of life. Part of society is radicalized and calls for a change in political representation. I want to ask: we are all left here thinking that this is a failure of this government and that it is a failure of the state, and we think that it is high time for a change of political representation, and so if we are radicalized and if this team, the crisis information team of the Ministry of the Interior, is going to start to address us in some way and whether it will investigate our views and our moods. It does not allow me to quote here from a book on dobrý voják Švejk, when Officer Flanderka had to fill out forms from the Ministry of the Interior on the moods of the population, when he had to fill out a questionnaire on mood between members of local government and intelligence, a regulation on the urgent findings of what political parties the local population consists of, how strong the political parties are, a questionnaire on what newspapers, magazines and brochures reach the gendarme range, instructions on how to obtain from the local population paid by snitches and informants, and so on and so on and so on. And those moods were evaluated in Švejk in the letters 1, 2, 3, 4, always 1A, B, C, while A was treason, 4A was treason and rope. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I would like to ask how Minister Rakušan evaluates the mood in the Czech Republic and between officials. [[Time.]] [[Time.]] [[- Please, thank you.]] Thank you. I'm guessing 2A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u100	Thank you very much. Minister Rakušan is excused, so he will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And I give the floor to Mrs Maříková, who was drawn as the tenth to interview Minister Síkela on the matter of the Small and Medium Company. Mrs Lesenská will be ready. Madame, you have two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I will be very brief. On the assembly of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, you have said the following to large companies for which you have not prepared assistance with expensive energy: "I recommend to all large companies, look small and medium, at least for a transitional period." So I wonder what steps big companies are supposed to take to make them look like small and medium-sized. Because now they don't know what to do, so if you can give them instructions and advice on what to do to get help, which is intended for small and medium-sized companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u102	Thank you. The Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to a question that has already been answered by the Prime Minister and assure you that the effort of the Ministry of Industry and Trade is to ensure the most effective aid for Czech businesses, both for small and medium-sized companies and for large companies. [[16.40 hours]] We are intensively discussing the extension and extension of the temporary crisis framework for helping large companies. These negotiations are moving in a good direction and, in the middle of October, the European Commission should put a first proposal on the table. When it comes to the support of small and medium-sized companies and what the company has to meet to fit for this support. In this context, I would like to point out that it is thanks to our Presidency and thanks to the Czech Republic that the last Energy Council has been able to approve the possibility of area aid for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to note the following. The definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise is based on Recommendation No 1 of the European Commission. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: According to this definition, an entrepreneur is considered to be a medium-sized entrepreneur if he employs fewer than 250 employees and his property does not exceed the koruna equivalent of EUR 43 million - the limit is set in euro - or has a turnover or, where appropriate, income, not exceeding the koruna equivalent of EUR 50 million. An entrepreneur is then considered to be a small entrepreneur if he employs less than 50,000 employees and his assets, assets or turnover and income do not exceed the koruna equivalent of 10 million euro. [[50?]] An entrepreneur is considered to be a small entrepreneur if he employs less than 10 employees and his assets or assets or turnover, income, does not exceed the koruna equivalent of 2 million euro. Traders, small and medium-sized companies, and even large firms can also currently use investment support, especially from the Operational Programme Technology and Applications for Competitiveness, the National Recovery Plan and the Modernization Fund. If the limits set, Mrs President, were not clear, I would like to refer you to the 16-page document by CzechInvest, which is called Application Interpretation for the definition of small, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and procedures for the classification of entrepreneurs in individual categories. There not only you, but everyone who cares will find the answer as defined by a large, medium, small company and microfire. In addition, I would like to point out that by the end of November 2022, companies may, regardless of their size, apply for subsidies for photovoltaic systems with or without accumulation from the National Recovery Plan, for subsidies for complex savings projects involving the reconstruction of buildings intended for business, increasing the efficiency of technological and production processes. [[Accumulation]] Installations for the production of energy from renewable sources can be requested from OP, also regardless of the size of the company, until the end of November 2023. Furthermore, all firms can apply for support from the OP for the construction of wind power plants until 1 February 2024. Responsible authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Energy Regulatory Office, cooperate in finding solutions so that the effects of energy prices on households and industry are as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u104	Thank you for keeping time. Do I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? Yes, he does. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I didn't hear the instructions. You told the big companies at the assembly: "Be small and medium-sized, at least for a transitional period." I understand that you avoided the answer because you probably realized that this is why Andrej Babiš sits in court and is your five-wheeler, in which you are a minister, because of this subject of criticism. Mr. Secretary, isn't what you've been saying public urging fraud when you're saying towards big companies to look like middle and small for a temporary period of time? I have the impression that you still didn't realize you were a politician and a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u106	Thank you. I ask the Minister if he is interested in an additional reply. [[I don't.]] It's not like that. We should now move on to an interview by Mrs Lesenská, but she apologized for work reasons. I give the floor to Mrs Berkovcová. Jana, who was drawn as the twelfth. He will give an interview to the Minister of Education Balaš on the Missing Finances in Education. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u107	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have received almost a hundred e-mails from school directors who complain that they do not have enough funding this year for so-called other non-investment expenditures and must match the missing money on ONIV with the funds intended for teacher salaries. The ONIV, for example, is paid for aids and textbooks for pupils, for the first fourteen days of sick or swimming training for pupils or for the further education of teachers. Compared to last year, ONIV was cut off by an average of a third, rural small-class schools by 43 percent. Chapter 3.3.3 of the Ministry of Education states that ONIV has been reduced by CZK 995 million to public schools, while CZK 850 million has been transferred to private schools. Can you please explain to thousands of public school directors the reason for this transfer and please explain to tens of thousands of public nursery, elementary and secondary school teachers why they should actually subsidize the operation of private schools from their salaries? This year's state budget was supposed to be austerity, but you increased private schools' budgets by 40 per cent compared to 2021, although the number of pupils in them increased by only 2 per cent. Thus, this year, from the state budget, converted into one student of a private school, there is more than one pupil of a public school, which is completely absurd. The directors often draw the missing money from the reward money to teachers, and they are actually losing their salaries. Does the draft budget for next year really count with a 30% reduction in ONIV? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u108	Thank you. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Vladimír Balaš has the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Mr President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to set this straight. Of course, I'm not satisfied that ONIV has fallen. He grew up in general, and now you're actually right that there's a slump. But it is certainly not that funds have been transferred from ONIV to private education. On the contrary, there is a need to spend 1.5 billion on private and ecclesiastical education, and there is only 800 million in the budget. The expenses that are being put in there are quasi-mandatory, so we need to find another 700 million to meet what the law requires of us, and to finance private and church education. This funding is based on a law based on a coefficient that is quite common, so maybe you have inaccurate information. Funds from ONIV were definitely not transferred to private education. On the contrary, almost half of the resources needed for next year are still missing in private education. Teachers' performance is calculated in September last year, so unfortunately it doesn't even take into account inflation. As far as ONIV is concerned, there is, of course, some way that directors can help themselves, but that is an extreme means. I'll be happy to discuss this matter and find the missing funds. But it certainly cannot be at the expense of another segment in the educational process. I think that's really problematic. It's a thing we're constantly dealing with, and until the budget's closed... I would even say that, given that there are great uncertainties both on the income and on the expenditure page, it will have to be touched, so we assume that it will also take place on the proposal of the Ministry of Education and will be strengthened by ONIV. [[16.50 hours]] I'm really not happy with it, somewhere they even wrote that I said that schools had enough money. I'd be out of my mind if I could say something like that. And I hope that the government will succeed in fulfilling its programming statement and investing 5.2 percent of gross domestic product in education, and then, of course, we would be off the hook. For me, as I hope for the government, education and science are still a priority, and we simply need to find these resources, however hard I understand that times are. And I know that the transfer of payroll to ONIV in the case of teachers who are in work disability can solve the problem in part, but it won't solve it entirely. Definitely the cost of this type is much higher. Wish us luck, I'll be glad if you support us and if we find the funds. I don't know if I gave you a perfectly good answer, but it's really not like they're moving money from private education, i.e. private education money from ONIV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u109	I thank the Minister and ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u110	Thank you for the reaction. It's just that it's impossible to say that school directors save money when they have sick employees, because most sick people are within 14 days, and this year they were linked to quarantines and isolations. Someone has to sub for a teacher, of course, and the teacher who subshops is entitled to double the hourly rates. So, actually, the school won't save, on the contrary, it'll lose its reward money. I'm just gonna go back to the way you said you wanted to find the money. So what hope can we give the directors that maybe something else will come back to them this year or the next?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u111	Thank you. Minister with a follow-up response. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: We are talking about next year's budget. I think that, as far as this year is concerned, there is, in principle, no dramatic fall. Of course, you're right that the funds were very exhausted due to the covid. But what's bothering us mostly isn't the last three months or two and a half, but especially next year. So there, hopefully, we'll still be discussing the budget and we'll be able to find some more funds, eventually move them. The Ministry, too, is looking for internal resources to meet schools in this way, but it's complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u112	Thank you, Minister. I am now giving the floor to Mr Koten, who was drawn as the thirteenth to interpel to Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear absent minister. I would like to ask a few questions, but these are, of course, things related to the budget of the Czech Republic, at the same time, of course, with an increase in the budget for this year and, of course, the budget for next year. The reasons why you are absent are excused for work reasons - so I don't know if you're on some foreign trip or whether you went there for any recommendations on how to use this year's budget increase. However, I would actually like to quantify in some way the expenditure associated with the migration crisis from Ukraine to the Czech Republic. Furthermore, I wanted to ask whether you have quantified the expenditures that have been, in terms of the supply of weapons to Ukraine, and therefore whether you are counting on such expenditures for next year, because given the energy situation, it seems to me to be more effective to ensure cheap energy for citizens of the Czech Republic, and I am not quite sure whether these expenditures are approved by taxpayers in the Czech Republic. Anyway, thank you for answering these questions in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u114	Yes, thank you. The Minister is excused, according to the Rules of Procedure, so he will respond in writing to your intervention within 30 days. I will now give the floor to Mr Rais, who will give his interview with order number 14, namely the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of Balaš, on the Platform of Educational Workers and the Government's programming statement. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u115	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Mr President, dear colleagues. I would first raise a question to the Minister of Education. And that question concerns essentially the government's programming statement, whether the government is fulfilling its programming statement, which specifically says that the government guarantees a high-quality salary assessment of pedagogical workers and keeps their salaries at 130 percent of the average gross monthly wage. Why do I ask that? Because I got my hands on a pretty solid study of renowned colleagues Münich and Smolka: Teacher's salaries in 2021 - peak achieved, and what next? And that's where they're talking about it, they're pointing to graphs that in 2021 it was the peak, and now it's falling, it's falling financially, and it's just the salaries of primary school teachers, they didn't put kindergarten schools into it, and eventually I think it's time for non-teaching workers to do it, which means janitors, chefs, and so on. I must remind you that we have been asked many times by the opposition at the time, and it must be said that the government has always fulfilled its programming statement, the government of Andrej Babiš. I believe that this government is now not fulfilling its programming declarations in the field of education, which is why I would quite like to hear the Minister's opinion as to what his idea of wage developments at the level of primary and secondary schools is. In the supplementary question, I would, of course, also focus on universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u116	Thank you. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Vladimír Balaš has the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the performance of the government programme is concerned, one of the components is to ensure or guarantee the law and guarantee that the salary should be 130 per cent of the average wage. This is also written in the draft law on pedagogical workers, which we did not get to yesterday. And of course it will be difficult, it will be problematic in the current economic situation. The law assumes that the law guaranteed above should be from 2024, and it is up to us how we stand up to it in the Chamber of Deputies, whether the law passes or fails, and I believe it will. I just want to say that one thing is - and it will concern both teachers in elementary and secondary schools, which I think is quite important - I would just like to say that I lack a bit of such a holistic view of education as such, because in that context, when you look at the budget of the Ministry of Education, you can see that scissors are opening up between funding for higher and regional education, so the share of higher education in total funding is constantly falling percentagely, as nominally the amount may be growing, so it is a problem. It happens - it was actually one of your colleague's questions, which I think she wanted to ask about higher education, but, and I might just add - it happens that young promising college graduates, like studying doctoral studies, prefer to go to secondary education, because the average wage in secondary education is about 15,000 higher for them than it is in higher education, and this imbalance can cause a disaster sooner or later in my opinion, because soon there will be no one to teach. He'll have no one to teach those to teach. And we can't afford that. [[17,00 hours]] So I'd like that budget to be more predictable, at least medium-term and guaranteed medium-term, maybe for five years. And I think it would really help the most if we all actually agreed that there would be a certain amount of resources in education that are produced within our gross domestic product. The 5.2 % is quite a nice, ambitious amount, it would certainly help our education. And as I say, as far as salaries are concerned in secondary and primary schools, it depends on whether we decide to accept, we accept the draft law on pedagogical workers, which legally guarantees, so that amount becomes a mandatorial expense. So just, if I answered that part, and to confess, I got a little lost. You asked me something else, so I'll ask you if you can fill me in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u117	Thank you, Minister. I ask the Member if he wants to raise an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u118	I have an additional question, even though we have a little role-playing, because I wanted to ask about the wages of higher education workers and the conflict with regional education. You've answered that most of the time. There he goes... I've been working here for a couple of weeks now, so basically, who's been following me knows that I've been asking this very often, and I've been pointing out to the previous ministers, but now the scissors have really opened up in a very distinctive way, so basically, the assistants or assistants, they're more or less right to yell or say that their salaries and conditions are worse than in high schools. Here I see, there's a need, it's a political matter or it's a political matter, but it takes the agreement of the Ministry of Education and of us politicians to get there. [[Time. Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] they have actually pushed a significant increase in the salaries of higher education teachers. [[Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u119	Thank you. Minister, follow-up answer. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Yes, thank you. I'm aware of that, I run several PhD students myself, I know what their conditions are. To a certain extent, at least with doctoral students, this question is now being addressed by an amendment to the Higher Education Act, which concerns, in particular, doctoral studies, and hopefully we will be able to set it up systemically. Specifically, it is a problem rather in humanities, perhaps a slightly better situation is in exact sciences or in fields that deal with other aspects of teaching, technical science and natural and mathematics. And, of course, the schools are also paid better, because universities are getting funding according to some coefficient according to the intensity of the study, and especially the humanities I think they are suffering in this respect, and it cannot be said that the study or education in this area would be completely insignificant. So I just hope that we can find a model, and together - I think it should be in everyone's interest, whether it's the ruling coalition or the opposition - and we'll try to straighten this system out, because we need to understand education in the whole context, and when one part of you falls apart, you can't fix it somewhere else. In short, this needs to be treated in a balanced way and the work on all sides must be assessed in a good, good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u120	Thank you, Minister. I will now give the floor to Mrs Adámková, who was drawn as the fifteenth to present an interview with Minister Langšádlová, but I do not see Professor Adámková in the hall, so her interpelation is failing. And I will give the floor to Mr Novák, who was drawn as the sixteenth in the order to interpel to the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. So, even Mr Novák is not present, so his interpellation is failing. Then I will ask Mrs Pošarová to take the floor, who was drawn as 17th in the order to interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade of Síkela. She's not present, so her interpellation is failing. Eighteenth in a row, Mrs Maříková Karla, withdraws the interview due to the absence of Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. Then I will ask Mrs Berkovcová, who, as the 19th, was drawn to an interview with Minister Stanjura. She's not present, so her interpellation is failing. As the twentieth order, Mr Kettner Zdeněk should apply the interview. Mr Kettner Zdeněk is not present, or his interpellation is failing. Then I will ask if Mrs Štefanová Iveta is present, who should interpel Mr Válek? She's not present, so her interpellation is failing. Another Member with an interview in serial number 22 was awarded by Mr Nacher Patrik, who has already delivered one of the interviews, but is not in the hall, so he is also failing to intervene on Minister Kupka. Then I will ask if Mr Koten Radek is still present, who should interpel Mrs Černochová as the twenty-third? Mr Koten is not present, or his interpellation is also failing. The twenty-fourth interpellation is drawn for Mr Kettner, but it wasn't a little while ago... [[The MP's coming.]] He's here. Mr Kettner will intersect the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of Mr Balaš. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u121	Thank you for the floor. I want to ask. Since 1 September there has been an increase in tariffs for non-pedagogical workers. If my information is correct - I don't know if the Minister will have it more precisely - then there has still been no transfer of funds. This means that there is still a risk that directors will be forced to move funds from that component to salaries to non-profit wage components for pedagogical workers. So I'm going to ask if there's already a plan for an increase, if there are any reserves, so that there's an increase without damaging the teaching staff. I will contact one more question, which is the so-called alignment of Czech education with Ukrainian. So I just want to ask what concrete steps I should imagine under this alignment, because I have two systems that are so-called aligned, so it's always a compromise, and I'm afraid it's not at the expense of the quality of teaching Czech students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u122	Thank you. Thank you and give the floor to the Minister of Education. Minister, please. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Mr Member. You made those two right away, so I didn't miss anything. Maybe I'll start with your first question. With regard to Ukrainian schools and alignment, we are struggling or schools are struggling with the fact that Ukrainian pupils and students can study online and that this online education, which is organized by Ukraine at the level of especially primary schools, can interfere with teaching. I think that, in most cases, it may have been resolved on the basis of an agreement, but probably not in all schools, because some Ukrainian schools broadcast even at a time when children should go to school - and we all know that teaching is not only important, but also some social contact. Then we will continue to deal with this and we will deal with it remotely with Ukrainian counterparts. Let's hope we can work this out. However, the problem is that Ukrainian children are still exposed to greater burdens outside the time they go to school in the Czech Republic, and this leads to their overload. They are overwhelmed by a relatively large number of homework, then they are tired and are such apathetic at standard teaching. So that's another thing we're dealing with. And now, recently, Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Miller, in Ukraine, has also dealt with the Ukrainian Minister of Education, so to speak. Let's hope we can work this out. So far it is not at the expense of teaching Czech children, so at least I don't think it is, rather, burdening the Ukrainian children excessively, and it is not good either, of course. And if we want to adapt them, we must also give them some space for some social interaction outside of school education. So that's the first question. [[17.10 hours]] With regard to wage increases, if you mean by the end of this year, in 2022, there was an increase of 2 per cent in salaries for pedagogical workers and 2.66 per cent in non-teaching workers, which in this (?Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. 10% increase in the tariff salaries of non-teaching workers from 1 September, and in the case of non-teaching employees of legal persons engaged in the activities of schools and educational establishments setting up regions, municipalities or voluntary associations of municipalities. And I have this feeling that I'm not aware that the funds aren't going to those schools, but I'll admit that I can't tell you exactly, I'd rather check it out and confirm it. So far, no one's complained that the funds weren't there. If you have the signals, I'd be happy to ask for them and try to fix this thing. Let's hope it's not. That's all I really know. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u123	Thank you, Minister. I ask, does the Member wish to raise an additional question? It's not like that. And for the last interview with order number 25, I will give the floor to Mr Koten, who will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade of Síkela. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. I may say that I have already asked this question to the Prime Minister, but I would like you to comment in writing. It is therefore whether the Czech Republic and when it withdraws from the emission allowance system. This is because these emission allowances essentially do not serve their purpose, but they trade somewhere on the stock exchange and only serve speculators for a good profit. So it is not for the issuer, the European Commission or the European Union, to obtain funds and to punish people or companies who actually operate non-environmental operations and destroy the environment, but it is basically just a speculative currency that improves the cash flow of various US and other pension funds. And then, when an energy manufacturer needs to buy it, or some company that produces some goods that are burdened with this environmental tax, they have to buy it for multiple means, of course it projectes it into their products, and of course it also makes electricity, gas and the like more expensive. I assumed that during the Presidency of the European Union, our Presidency and the Government of Petr Fiala would use this here to abolish and withdraw emission allowances, because, after all, we have a crisis situation here, and the consequences for our industry, for agriculture will be huge, unseen, and we cannot even imagine it today. Or we can imagine it, but I feel like the government can't imagine it. So I would like to know how you will deal with this matter and how you will prevent the collapse of companies in the Czech Republic. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-13-ps2021-041-03-002-158.u125	Thank you. Minister Síkela is excused from 5:00 p.m., so according to the Rules of Procedure, he will reply in writing within 30 days. I am of the opinion that, for today's day, we have closed the oral questioning because Mr Koten was the last of the list of elected Members to be interviewed, or the oral questioning ends. And according to my information, the agreement between the presidents of the MPs is that we will not continue today after oral intercessions, so I will conclude this meeting day and meet again tomorrow, when our meeting will continue, that is Friday at 9 o'clock. Until then, I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
