ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, or honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second day of the 48th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. To record our participation, I'm going to check you out first, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with I.D. cards. So please sign in. And I'll also ask you to tell me, if necessary, who's applying for a replacement card. Furthermore, I say that the following Members requested to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Babiš Andrej the whole day for working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav until 11 hours for working reasons, Bauer Jan the whole day for family reasons, Bělor Roman from 10.30 to 12.30 and from 14.30 to 17 hours for working reasons, Benešík Ondřej until 10 hours for health reasons, Burešš Jan from the whole working day for working reasons, Exner Martin from 12 to 16.30 for working reasons, Fischerová Romana from the whole working day for health reasons, Golasowská Pavla from 14.30 to 15.30 for the whole working day, Hájek Martin from 14.15 to 17 hours for working reasons, Jáč Ivan from 14 hours for working Martin, Kasasal David from the whole Quittová Petra for Růžička Pavel, Kolohradová Naiclerová from the whole Hana day for the whole working day, from the whole working day, from the whole working day of 15.30 to 15.30 for reasons, Krejza Karel for the Wenzl medical reasons, Krutáková Jana for the whole day for the reasons of the foreign travel, Kubík Jan for Okamura of the 10 hours for the Tomio day, for the reasons of the whole working day, for the reasons of the Lochman day, for the Ondřej Karel Sládeček, for the whole working day, for the whole Šafránková day, for the reasons of the whole Milan day, for the whole working Lucie, for the reasons of the Ivo day, for the purpose of the working day, for the whole of the purpose of the whole of the whole of the whole of the purpose of the whole of the purpose of the purpose of the purpose of the purpose of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the time of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of From members and members of the government apologizes: Petr Fiala from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Vladimír Balaš within 12 hours for working reasons, Pavel Blažek from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Jana Černochová from the whole day of the meeting for health reasons, Jan Lipavskýý from the whole day for working reasons, Zdeněk Nekula from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Vít Rakušan from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel and Zbyněk Stanjura from 10 to 12 hours for working reasons. That's how we settled the apology so far. Today's negotiations will begin with the points in the following order - and I will only ask that those who wish to speak bring the discussions into the foyer - i.e. we have the order: paragraph 103 of the approved programme, this is the House press 270, on the promotion of sport; Point 104 of the approved programme, the Government's proposal for a law on business conditions and the performance of state administration in energy sectors; paragraph 100, that is OLAF, and paragraph 101 of the approved programme - related. All third reading. Furthermore, paragraph 17 of the approved programme, House press 311, protection of public health; paragraph 19, uniform environmental opinion; paragraph 20 - related; paragraph 21, construction law. This is the block of first reading. And I would like to remind you that if this item, paragraph 21 of the approved programme, is negotiated by 13.45 pm, then there will be an election point 109 of the approved agenda of the 48th meeting at 13.45 pm, and then the Chamber of Deputies will be interrupted by Friday 16. 12th, because Thursday 15th. The 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is held at 9 o'clock. If item 21 is not negotiated by 13.45 pm, then the Chamber of Deputies will continue its negotiations from 15 pm, and once again, the Chamber of Deputies will adjourn its negotiations until Friday 16. 12. This message. And now there's room for proposals, any speeches to change the approved agenda, and I have here a written application for President Marek the Výborný... so he's downloading. And I'm gonna ask if anybody wants to do the show? If not, we will proceed to the first item on today's show, as it was approved yesterday. So I'm opening up a point.
