ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u1	27. Government bill on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services / House printing 160/ - first reading We interrupt the general debate, I see the rapporteur at the table for Mr Adamec's first reading, and I see that Mrs Anna Hubáčková will represent the Minister for Regional Development. At this point, we are in a general debate where I see that Mr Roman Kubíček, to whom I am now giving the floor, is duly signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'll follow up on what we started here. I have downloaded the e-Road project on this issue. That's a group of people who support low-emission resources, electromobility and so on, but they're warning about a lot of problems here that it can bring. I will leave out the topic of cogeneration of electricity from heat plants because I see that my honored colleague Václav Král is registered there, and I think he will be interested in this topic. And now we have the issues we're supposed to prevent, and we're supposed to somehow get to the low-emission vehicle support. Well, the low-emission vehicle support is going to work within that vehicle, but I'm going to ask what sources they're going to supply energy to these vehicles, whether it's hydrogen, whether it's electricity, but also gas, and so far the developed system is only LNG and CNG, there's probably no problem in replenishment, but we're still talking about a low-emission vehicle, and not emission-free, that means it's up to 31. 12. 2025, and since 2026, they've been emission-free. That's how the slopes put it in the percentages that are meant to be there. And there will certainly be support for electric mobility for ordinary citizens - and now I ask if we have enough resources. I haven't seen any calculation of those units anywhere, because when we talk about hydrogen, and in the past period, Juříček was sitting here, who was intensively involved, but success has only been achieved so far in America, and so far the hydrogen-production infrastructure has not been developed in the Czech Republic. And there's gonna be another problem, because in global, it's a chemical production that's going to somehow burden ecology and the environment again, and it's going to have to create a network. For me, it makes some sense, let's say, in long-distance freight transport, but it doesn't give me a whole sense of ammunition, so I think we're definitely going to talk about electromobility. Just for example. In České Budějovice there are already two lines on which small electric buses run, and the problem of logistics was with their charging, with their distance to go, and how it has to be done, so in the end there is actually some traction charge and those lines had to be adjusted to ensure safe passage of the vehicle. Then the vehicle costs some time, quite long, and then the sense is mainly on trolleybuses, on trams. There is no problem again, but not all cities have trolleybus lines, certainly not tram lines. And we're actually going to go to transport by classic buses, so I really can't imagine how we're going to strengthen the infrastructure in that city so that there's enough electricity at that point. [[12.50 hours]] And now another problem that is, that is simply a question, because my honourable colleague here has said it, through Mr President, Berenika Peštová, who said that two commissions have decided to remove gas and remove the core from supported sources, that means that in the Czech Republic we will have to replace it with something - whether it will be photovoltaics and so on. That's probably one of my questions. Maybe even the secretary here will be able to answer me. So far we have focused on photovoltaics especially for ordinary citizens. Yes, I understand there's support, but we forgot the ammunition. See ya. See ya. Then I'd rather ask if there's a plan, a program? The mayors ask me that. Of course, these are other sources for those public buildings. It is also some availability of photovoltaics, panels and so on. And now I'm asking if every city will be able to build and produce, say, these emission-free sources of electricity generation? But it's kind of a little bit with quotes, because she's the senseless one saying that these electric vehicles are zero-emission vehicles, but there's a so-called indirect load, and the indirect load depends exactly on the resources that make it. And now we've reached a time that's very unfavorable. My honored colleague, Mr. Adamec, said so here. There's been a war. There's been an energy crisis. There's been a big price. And in global, you could say that at the moment, if we look at preventing access to raw materials from Russia, there is a restriction on those resources. It's going to be very negative, and I think the whole world is looking for some diversification. And we're not going to be able to assume the prices. Then I looked at some wannabe evaluation of the price of those vehicles, buses and so on and so on, which predicts the Ministry of Transport. I don't share their optimism because precious metals are used in the manufacture of batteries, we all know that. The biggest producer of these metals and even the elements is China, she has great resources. And we're not talking about our lithium, which we also have. And in demand, all economists know that as demand increases, the price increases. That's what it's gonna be. So I just don't believe... Yes, it relied on mass production. But look at the way the car market was cheating today. Cars we bought a year and a half ago are now 20 percent higher. There's been an increase in demand because it can't be made. There's no cables from Ukraine, there's nothing, there's no batteries. So how are we going to deal with this? I would like to hear the concept, that is, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Regional Development - those wise heads should sit together and create a so-called survival strategy. If this is happening, I don't know. I'm saying, I'm asking a question here. And that's actually where we're going to follow exactly what we're going to do. So at the beginning, we'll secure some resources so we can produce low-emission transport. We have to buy those resources, we have to build them. I don't know much about prices, because now I've seen that companies that install photovoltaics, again with increased interest and increase in energy prices and so on, are about to get more expensive. Now I can't tell if it's going to be 10 percent, 15 percent. That's how it's gonna be. For the family houses thanks to the support it will probably remain completely okay, but for the ammunition the initial investment will be very high, very high. Because we know... And if it were to be really ecological and really perfect, then the installation should be on all public buildings. They should simply be self-supplying and, secondly, provide the resource for low-emission transport. Another thing about this is that the study draws attention to very carefully considering the production of electricity. And I say, I don't want to enter Vašek Král's territory, because he will definitely talk about the heat and its benefits. And in any case, the cities that have blood vessels today should retain them and concentrate precisely on the cogeneration of electricity and possibly on their land and on their areas installing photovoltaics to help the whole system. But once again, it's hard in the fact that not all blood vessels belong to cities and municipalities, some are simply in private hands. And of course, the investor who should be involved is counting on some kind of return, some of the profits that they are. We can't say to them, "Do it as a gift to the people." And there will have to be some support again, it will have to be economical and we will have to involve private investors. Then we have some problems that the study points out, and it's simply an extension of CO2 emissions, NOxs, SO2 and solid particles, and it's an indication of the state's energy mix. And I had information that a group from France was sending a rather interesting study to the European Commission, which had just mapped the entire life cycle of an electric car from the start of production up to so much further. And here I'm a little worried that Europe has played the smart hobby and says, "We're going to be emission-free and do your emissions somewhere in China, it's going to be great, and we don't really care. But there's only one world, there's only one atmosphere, and in the long run, these emissions will actually settle down and expand the ozone hole. So all we can do is put the problem behind us. We can call ourselves heroes. And I would point out that Europe's global emission burden is somewhere between 7 and 9 percent from all over the world. The largest issuers are China and the United States of America. So I also looked at the United States of America, which also uses photovoltaics, but they do not have to do so in any way in any way standardized and limited by legislation. They don't have to, they don't have to. They either want to or they don't want to. That's the market principle that works there. And I will agree very much because I talked to some MEPs and asked some questions - they actually criticize that experts are not invited to their round tables and that they do not get the space. And then we actually vote for something, we do something, and we say, "You will do it in all the countries of the European Union, but we will not create a way to do it." I'm a little worried, as my colleague Berenika Peštová said here, that they should show us the target. Well, they're not gonna show it to us. This objective must be shown by really scientific studies, which are supported by some long-term research and which will increase the energy efficiency of individual elements in the energy system. From my point of view, the stability of the source and so on is the core. I'll always support the core, it's a good thing. And where do we run into a narrow spot? So it's going to be the distribution system. The divorce system will be a big problem. If you remember, at the time the Němec shut down their power plants and switched to electricity from windmills and photovoltaics, two large balancing transformers had to be built at the border with the Czech Republic in order to avoid surges and damage to the transmission system in the Czech Republic. And as you know, the problem with the transmission system is still the one-- there's nowhere else to build those roads either. We are quite a very networked country. And if you expand, it's not possible to lead the lead in existing columns. It has some parameters that can be there, as safe as it is, dangerous. So this is gonna be a problem, too. Yes, I've heard some studies on how it would go in the country. I understand that, but that's even more expensive than air guidance. And above all, the problem in the time horizon is repairs, because it's quite fast on those columns. But once again, it has one advantage. We know the storm won't damage it in that moment. So we should ask each other all these questions, and I think that a completely professional debate should fall on the economic committee. I will therefore ask the President of the Economic Committee to set aside quite a time for this point. This isn't really gonna be a half-hour thing. I would almost say that the Energy Sub-Committee could also do this first, to pre-negotiate it, and then to discuss it with the professional public in some way. And then we'll have to make some kind of deal. [[13.00 hours]] And again, we understand the goal, we understand where we want to go. It's nothing against low-emission vehicles, nothing, but we're asking ourselves a lot of questions about how we're gonna do it. We don't know right now, we're not going to get all the answers, and I'm not going to bother the secretary here, because that's exactly what we're going to ask the committees, and then you're going to answer it, and it's probably going to be the harmony of several ministers, and you're not going to be able to answer all the questions that have come up. So that's what I've outlined here. I will discuss this very closely with the Economic Committee. I'd have a lot of impulses that work here, but it's just that this isn't a professional forum, so I guess we wouldn't be able to figure this out, just a little bit of confusion here. So thank you guys for listening to me, and I guess I'll wish you a good lunch, 'cause the meeting's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one point of fact, Mr. Michálek has been registered with priority rights, but as you can see, it's 13 o'clock. I can still read my apologies. Mr. Miroslav Zborovský today between 14.30 and the end of the day for business reasons, Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan from 9 to 13 o'clock, from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, then there is Ondřej Kolář's apology today from 13.15 to midnight, until the end of the day for work reasons, Karla Maříková from 12 o'clock to 12.30 for work reasons, and the last Eliška Olšáková apologises between 12.15 and 13 o'clock for work reasons. Well, I took the liberty of reading an apology on the microphone. I hereby adjourn the discussion of this press and the meeting will continue at 14.30, so I am interrupting the discussion of the press and interrupting the meeting until 14.30 when the oral questioning will take place. I wish you a good taste and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you again this afternoon after lunch break. The next item is oral interpelations to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or the entire government of the Czech Republic and then to other members of the government. First of all, I will read the apologies received between 14.30 and 18.00 for family reasons, and then Mr Antonín Tesařík apologizes between 14.45 and 16.15 for working Vildumetzová, Mr Ondřej Babka today between 15.00 and the end of the Jana for working reasons, and Mr Pavel Kašník also apologizes today from 18.00 and Friday 17. 6. for health reasons. And from the members of the government it is necessary to load who apologizes - I'm watching who's arrived extra. We have complete apologies loaded here. So today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, with whom they will speak and submit oral interpelations first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the government from 16 to 18.00. Members' lists according to the winning order have been distributed to the benches, and I warn all Members of the government and those who are intersected that if the Prime Minister's interpellation is exhausted, an intersecting block on other members of the government will be launched immediately. I am now giving the floor to Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala. Mr. Aleš Juchelka will then be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u5	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about your personal position on the cases that are multiplying with one of your coalition partners, the STAN movement. Last night, as you know, the deputy mayor Petr Hlubuček of Prague was also charged. Until then, he held important public and party functions. According to the media, the investigation goes back to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Petr Gazdík. If that's true, we probably won't know until the investigation. Before that, it was scandals about the Lords of Stanislav Polčák, Jan Farský and others for a change. When you went to the government, you said you'd bring change. So I want to ask if this change is what you promised and what people were supposed to expect? What is your personal position on STAN's cases? Are you going to draw any consequences from this? How do you assess the credibility of your entire government in this situation? Is the sustainable position of Vít Rakušan, Chairman of the problematic STAN movement, still in the position of Minister of the Interior? I don't even want to suggest that Mr. Rakušan should influence the investigation in any way, which would undoubtedly be the last drop for this government. However, his remaining in this position is very conflicting due to your pre-election and previous opposition rhetoric. If the YES movement were in the same situation, you would be the first to demand the resignation of the Home Secretary, if not the entire government. You are now the Prime Minister, which is why I am interested in how you will stand up to this situation and how you will draw the consequences or personal responsibility out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u6	Thank you, Madame. Petr Fiala, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, will now take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u7	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me say that I am pleased to be able again to participate in the interpelling and to answer the opposition's questions in this limited time, and that I am trying as far as possible, and I think that it has always been possible so far to participate in the interpelling. It is, of course, something that shows our political style. However, on the question of the Member, which is certainly a serious and important issue. I'm not happy with any case of this type. I believe that everything needs to be properly investigated, and if anyone has committed any crime or misconduct, then he must also be punished for it, justice must be given a pass. And I have no doubt that this will be the case. Of course, you said yourself that you had information from the media. I also have information from the media, which is okay because it's a live case, and I'm not supposed to have information other than from the media. I can think about it, and we all have to think about it, whether the information from the living case that is being brought into the media to this extent is in this way okay and whether in this way we strengthen our trust in justice in the Czech Republic. But that's another question that I'm sure we'll talk about on other occasions. To answer your question very clearly. Well, it's different if there's a difference, if there's a change. Well, of course I do. Look at the reaction of the STAN movement, the case you mentioned. No squirming, no saying, no unloading, so it's the police, the target before the election, let's see, let's wait for something to happen, just like your YES movement did. But Mr Hlubuček was asked to leave all functions immediately, and this also happened. You also mentioned the case, some other cases in the STAN movement. But let us distinguish, there are cases that are being investigated by the police, there are cases where there is, for example, a question of moral or political ethics, even in the event of misconduct in the field of political ethics. The STAN movement responded by resigning from its mandate by the former chairman of the United States MP's scholarship. So there's a quick reaction, there's a quick reaction even in the case of a suspected felony, practically on the first day. And that's really a big difference between how your YES movement approached it. Look at the Stok case in Brno where these people are already convicted. Is that why you've all been resigning from the government? Of course not. Let's look at the problem in Central Bohemia where you were the governor. We can reminisce about these cases here. Have you brought political responsibility out of this? You're a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, you ran. So here's the difference. Nothing, an asset, moving on, everyone's against us. And here you see, on suspicion, moral misconduct, clear conclusions are drawn. That's the difference. And I think that if you don't see him, Madame, the voters will see it, and the people who are looking at us now and watching us. In the case of the Home Secretary, I have no signal from the media that this case would interfere with the government's activities in any way. And the case you've named here, it means what's happening in Prague, clearly shows that not a hint of any, you've indicated that you're hoping and all that. There's no shadow of doubt here. If he were, there wouldn't be a case like this. Of course, everyone is acting impartially, including the Home Secretary, whose impartiality I have confidence in. So here you can clearly see the fundamental differences in access to suspicions, access to misconduct, access to moral failure. You don't give a damn about it, and we're taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister, and the honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, your minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u9	Of course I do. Prime Minister, you've fallen somewhere where I thought you'd never be in your life. You attacked yourself without knowing the whole Central Bohemia case of what's going on. Okay, I'll take it. It's your style of political behavior, not mine. I wasn't taken to the police, I wasn't investigated, I wasn't charged. And all media cases are still just media cases. So at this point, I'd like us to stick to this plane. For me, the conclusion from your performance is - you don't care, so STAN can do whatever he wants, you just keep the five-calices, because now you're in government and you want to be in government forever, and you're right, the voters know it and they see it and they see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u10	There is again an interest in the reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u11	We can talk, but we can't lie here and twist each other's words. I never said I didn't care. On the contrary, I said that conclusions were drawn from this that you did not draw from it. I wasn't talking about someone taking you in irons, like you said or using a similar term. I said when you called for political responsibility that you didn't bring her up. The prosecutor filed charges against the former head of the office of former Central Bohemia Governor Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová. That's also a media report. You're calling for political responsibility based on media reports. We, or the STAN movement, deduced it, and you didn't bring it up. So please, let's measure everyone fair and square. I reminded you of the ANO cause of the movement. I don't like it, I would never bring it up here. Your chairman here has been remembering the ten, twelve-year-old cases of some political parties, including the ODS. I've never done it here. You never heard it from me. And when you're here, despite the facts, despite the reality that the entire nation sees, that there is no political responsibility and that we are not acting ethically, I have to defend myself. And I can defend myself very easily, because you have never brought up that political responsibility. And here's where you say, "I have news from the media, but they should all resign." And when it comes to you, you say, "This is a media case, it's not at all." We're completely innocent. You're guilty. Well, measure them all the same. You know what justice is? Justice, among other things, is that it is measured by all the same subway. And you can't do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u12	Thank you for keeping time. We will now proceed to the next interpellation, to the interpelling of Mr Aleš Juchelka, which was drawn second. Mr. Andrej Babiš will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, for several months this government has promised a package of assistance for disabled people. It is a group that has long been neglected by this government as part of the price increase. Minister Jurečka has promised a package for disabled people for several months, last time at a press conference eight days ago, presenting it next week, after I quote, "does the parameters and impacts of helping this group." That week passed yesterday and we don't have a package, there was nothing on the press conference, and especially the government for handicapped people, it's just one big loser. People who are healthy, you advise them, or your advisor, to find a second job. Maybe they already have it. You tell the students, since you're 18, we can't help you, go to work or a part-time job, which, if it's just a little bit possible in the studio, they already do. Everyone tries to help themselves if they can, and if they can, they just do it. But after the disabled and their family members, you just can't ask for it. You can't ask them to find second place in a second sheltered workshop or to have a disabled child's mother go to another job and a child to another afternoon worker. I just can't. On the contrary, people need our help, they need to be thought of, because their life is to some extent determined by the solidarity of healthy people with sick and social reconciliation. I do not understand that this government merely promises and promises, deepens people's despair by its helplessness, which it merely talks about, arouses false hopes in people, such as this group of people with constant proclamations and empty speeches. All it takes is so little. Even today, the government coalition could have adopted a proposal for an amendment to the Act to increase the contribution to mobility. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u14	Thank you so much for keeping time. I'm just gonna ask for a little less noise intensity. Now with the reaction of Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u15	Dear Member, I'm sure you've touched on a very serious subject. If I understood correctly, because your interpellation ended with more of a challenge or a call, the question was whether we were actually planning some complex package of assistance for the disabled. Of course, I answer that, yes, we are, and that we consider the package important, because there are a number of benefits here, but that needs to be said and recalled, a number of doses that have not changed in a few years, including when you ruled. And these people, who cannot help themselves, often cannot help themselves, I agree with you, they need our help. This concerns, for example, the mobility allowance or medical aids. Of course, we are gradually correcting these mistakes of your government, but I'm sure you understand that there are so many mistakes that you can't do it all at once. Minister Jurečka is actually preparing assistance, a package of assistance for the disabled, in which we will remedy these problems caused by the previous governments. In our government's programming statement, we have committed ourselves to ensuring that the financial resources for social services and care contributions are validated, and I quote: "We will simplify and speed up the process of granting financial assistance to disabled people, in particular the contribution to care and disability pensions'. And that's what we're gonna do. But, like everyone else, healthy people can already use some of the Umbrella's anti-expensive tools, which the government, despite what you say, has prepared to help citizens at a time of inflation, high energy prices, fuel and food. We increased life and existential minimum by 10 percent, living minimum by 390 crowns, existential by 250 crowns. By increasing these two benefits, we have made available to a larger number of people the right to additional benefits, and this is important, the benefits in material distress, birth benefits, child allowance, foster care allowance, we have increased the housing allowance, and new tenants may also be entitled to it. Within the family assistance package, we have prepared a one-off contribution for each child under 18 years of age of CZK 5 000. This is a measure that has already been approved by the House. We intervened against the increase in fuel prices, so I could continue. I would like to call on disabled citizens not to be afraid to ask for contributions that they can already make use of, for example, those who have a lower income than eight times the living minimum of an individual or a jointly assessed person. They can use the contribution to purchase a special aid of less than CZK 24,000. There is a mobility allowance of CZK 550 per month that helps citizens with impaired mobility or impaired orientation. Of course, we are also preparing an energy tariff that will help households who have problems with higher energy prices, which are actually all of them, and this will, of course, also help disabled fellow citizens and their families. We are well aware of how inflation and all the factors that are now accumulated together, how it is affecting them. We work with data, we work with experience, which is why we want to push through a package of measures that is specific and which specifically targets people with disabilities. As I said before, we have prepared support for families with children, we have prepared support for those who have social problems, we have prepared three annualisations of pensions, but, of course, we are now also focusing on helping those who are disabled and close to them. [[14.50 hours]] But what I'm saying is that the package that will actually be on the table in the next few weeks is just the first batch of rapid changes. We are also working to finally make after years of systemic changes for which disabled people are waiting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u16	Thank you for your time and now for the supplementary question by the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u17	I feel like we don't get along very well with the Prime Minister, because if I'm incompetent, I'm just gonna blame it on the previous government or someone else. Dear Prime Minister, we have raised the parent from 220 to 300,000 in the last parliamentary term, my amendment has increased foster benefits, the increase in long-term foster parents, my proposal has been increased in III. and IV. the degree of disability, and we also paid my amendment to those who have a younger child in the family. But at this point we are talking about disabled people, where the mobility allowance is increased from 550 to, for example, your announced, embarrassing 825 crowns. He's not anywhere. The legislation, and you know it very well, means making one change in one line in the law, changing the amount, and you could have helped a long time ago and quickly. You're not doing anything, you're just talking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u19	Well, Mr. Ambassador, we really don't understand each other and we can't understand each other. You're in a political-ideological struggle here, and I'm telling you the facts. So the facts are that the mobility allowance, the medical aids, when you were lifting? How'd you handle it? It's been insufficient for some time. Your government has done nothing about this. Well, look at the facts, come here with them, and we can talk about them later. Yes, we agree that the contribution to mobility is insufficient, and now there is an even greater problem with it as a result of the rise in fuel prices. We're ready to raise the mobility allowance, we're considering different options to choose the one that will best reflect real costs and help people. Yes, we mentioned in the Government's programming statement that we want to actively integrate people with disabilities into society and the labour market. That is why we are going to support the employment of people with disabilities and by increasing this contribution. We also need to adjust the support of people with expensive diets. This adjustment was introduced in 2011, since then it has not been revised. Have you validated her, Mr. Ambassador? No, you didn't even look at it at all at a time when the economy was extremely successful and the standard of living of other people was growing. You've done nothing for these people. We need to increase the contribution to special aid, lifting and lifting platforms, and we are also working on this. And I could name some of the other things in this package. And if you look at the facts and look at how you helped these people at a time when you could, when you didn't have budget problems, with inflation and all that, you'd find that you did very little for them, if not nothing at all. And now you're saying, well, you're supposed to be here in six months to fix all this. We'll fix it, maybe not in six months, maybe seven months. But what your government has neglected... ours will fix. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u20	Time. Thank you. And now, with another interview by President Andrej Babiš, Mrs Karla Maříková can prepare herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u21	Prime Minister, you really surprise me more and more. You normally fight for this organized crime by our password until the body is torn apart. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] You don't know who STAN is, who's Polčák, who's friends with the Krejčířův's people? Which wanted to turn the village around Vrbětice? Bernard Cycle business? Farsky? Yes, he lied to the voters, but he resigned under pressure. He Půta to bed with contracts and had political competition watched as a mobster. Gazdík called the seznam, threatened journalists and interfered with Bečva's investigation. And then there's Hlubučka Throat. Organized cocaine crime. Well, it's never been here before. Mrs. Marvanová wrote to the Rakušan two years ago. What's going on here? It's his responsibility. His responsibility! And you, what do you do? Instead of saying: Yes, it is a matter of STAN, it must explain, the presumption of innocence, so you are attacking again. You're still attacking the YES movement. And what's stoka? Who was Švachula? No member of the ODS! In 2013, when we surprisingly ended up with others, we were found by a lot of ODS members, criminals like Švachula, and it was an organization's fault. I canceled it. The Rakušan didn't cancel anything. And then came Vildumetzová from ODS, Jermanová from ODS, Faltýnek from CSSD. Yes, they came. And what does the Rakušan do? He forced Švejdar to resign. He wasn't a minister yet, and he normally asked him if NCOZ was investigating Hlubučka's case. We all knew. So why did Mr. Rakušan go there? Well, to influence the investigation. So we're saying that he can't stay there, and if you're defending STAN, what's organized crime for us, who only went there to steal... [[Time.]] [[Time.]] State money, public money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u22	Time, please, is up. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the left side of the Chamber.]] And now there is room for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'll take it for a while. I'll try to repeat something to you, Mr. Chairman. Things where there are suspicions or cases where there is suspicion, let them be investigated, those who have committed some guilt, let them be affected. But in addition to where there is a suspicion that a politician has committed an act, he has to resign, give up his duties and leave politics. If he can't do it alone, he should be challenged by his own movement or political party. These are the customs in democratic countries. And so, in my opinion, I am not defending anyone, but in my opinion, I am describing the situation, in my opinion, that is how the STAN movement acted. The information you have that someone acted under the influence of cocaine and was part of some organized crime, I don't. If you have them, then inform the police, the law enforcement authorities, they will certainly deal with it and investigate it, because in this country the investigation is not affected, and the law enforcement authorities can do as the law tells them. So if you have that information, use it. And I'd just like to see everyone in politics measured by the same subway, that is, if there's any need for someone to be accused, so that the political party simply draws the conclusions you're calling for and I can undoubtedly join.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u24	Thank you and I ask if there is an interest in the supplementary question. Obviously, yes, so please, your minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u25	Yes, Prime Minister. The stork's nest, 15-year-old thing, the stork's nest. [[Ambassador Babiš smiled.]] Is that what you're talking about? Tell me one thing, since my political career, what was my problem? I've never had one, ever. And you have a problem because, in short, Rakušan, the Home Secretary, forced the police president to resign. The reason is to influence the investigation of STAN sponsorship donations and the performance of tasks by Minář. [[Myths?]] And who says that? iRozlas, January 3, 2022. And cocaine? Don't you read the media? Cocaine's on. [[Laughs in the courtroom.]] And God knows what else they were doing in that apartment. [[Laughter.]] We've heard what's been going on since February. Sometimes they split the contracts, now the lady started talking, Mr. Rychetský as influenced, Jurečka influenced the sports orders. So please, Rakušan's not supposed to be there. And I beg you to call the coalition, call off Rakušan... and have the resort... [[- Please, time.]] [[Time.]] ...someone else has a five-wheeler... but not a STAN that's organized crime. [[Time, please, is up.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u26	And reactions, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u27	But I really don't understand. You just said, Mr President, that Rakušan as Minister - I quote - "as Home Secretary, he forced Švejnar to resign"? You said before he was a minister, he forced Švejnar to resign. And even now, you've added that somehow he was trying to intervene in some kind of investigation. Well, if this Mr. Švejnar, I don't want to mess up the name now... [[A voice from the plinth: Shvejdar.]] ... I apologize, he has any suspicions or evidence, so he should certainly act as any citizen would have acted, which means he would simply have resisted the appropriate steps. I don't know why I'm bringing this up right now. [[15.00 hours]] All I can see is that the police - at least I know it from the media - are investigating something at the Prague City Council that they have accused or taken into custody or, as the wording is right now, I am sorry, I did not have time to read it in detail - the Prague representative and member of Mr Hlubuček's board and that, on that basis, STAN invited him to resign from all functions, which apparently also happened or would happen in some way. But at the same time, I see that at a time when the Interior Minister is Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement, these cases are ongoing, no one is stopping them, no one is affecting them, and we have the opportunity to talk about them here. Well, for me, it's proof that everything is going impartially and correctly. I can only underline the words I said a moment ago that I believe everything will be properly investigated and those who have committed crimes will be rightly punished. And that I also believe that the political culture applied by our coalition, which has now been applied by the STAN movement, that in cases of suspicion, this person will resign, that it will spread and that other political parties will apply it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u28	Thank you. We may proceed to another interview by Mrs Karla Maříková. Mr Radek Koten will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u29	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, yesterday the President of Ukraine appeared online asking for further support and assistance. I therefore ask how much help we have provided to Ukraine as the Czech Republic since the beginning of the war conflict. How many fuels have been exported to Ukraine and at what financial value, how many weapons have we taken to Ukraine and at what financial value? Did we also provide financial assistance as a state? If so, how many and do we even know what it was used for? Unless I mentioned something here, what else we've provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u30	Thank you, Madame. Now, after the questions have been raised, the Prime Minister will respond with his answer. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u31	Thank you, Madame, for that question. Of course, we are helping Ukraine and we are doing this for good reasons, because, on the one hand, it is right and fair to help Ukraine, which is attacked by Russia's aggression and which defends itself against odds and where there is an incredible suffering for people. We see it almost every day or we can look at it almost every day, unfortunately. It's a country that suffers and there's a lot of innocent people who just have to run to save their lives. We help them all in different ways, and it's right. The Czech Republic is also one of those countries that helps with supplies of weapons and military equipment. We've been doing this since the beginning of this conflict or this aggression, and we're going to continue to do so. I'm not gonna tell you the specific amounts or confirm them at this point. Of course there is information that we exported material of CZK 3.7 billion and so on. I'm not even going to say the different types of military equipment now, but of course I can say it's from lighter ammunition to heavy military technology. And I won't do it for security reasons, even because we're helping a party that's being attacked in a war that's under threat. I do not want to put more detailed information at risk at the moment even those Czech citizens who somehow provide and support this assistance. It is also important that not only the state helps, but that citizens also help, that citizens themselves participate in collections that are directly intended for the acquisition of military equipment, and that in this way hundreds, billions, or more than a billion crowns were selected. This also shows that Czech society is well aware of the need to help Ukraine, they understand that Ukraine is fighting not only for its independence, but also for our security and our independence. That is why we need to help them. With regard to certain specific matters, the Government provides health aid to Ukraine through the MEDEVAC and on-the-spot assistance programme. The total amount spent in these programs of the Ministry of the Interior is CZK 130 million. Within the framework of the on-the-spot assistance programme, we have provided four money donations to international organisations, each in the amount of CZK 25 million. But what is also important is the help we provide to people who escaped from Ukraine before the war. They're mostly moms with kids. We have already provided the temporary protection of 376,000 people in our territory. Just to prove the numbers of what I just said. The adult population is mainly women - over 72 percent. Children account for 37 percent. At the same time, however, those who can return to the country will also return to the country. And most importantly, over 74,000 Ukrajinec have a job because of the way we set up the system. This also means that they are taking appropriate funds into our social and health systems, which is also important. The number will increase. This clearly shows that these people are running away to save their lives, and at the first moment they can, they are not using our social systems, but they are trying to get on their feet and return to our society what they have given with their open arms with their acceptance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u32	Thank you. There's a clear interest in the follow-up question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u33	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, can you tell me what's classified about these sums? These are not the funds of your government or your government, but of this state, citizens of the Czech Republic. I think that not only we but they, too, have the right to know how much financial assistance we have provided to Ukraine because it is available with their funds. You're not putting anybody at risk, I don't think so. Why do I ask that? Energy prices are rising, food prices are rising, inflation is rising. Your government supports the sanctions that lead us to poverty and the energy crisis. You can't even see your crown of 50 per liter of gasoline and diesel. So I'm wondering whose interests you're defending. Whether it is Ukrajina or the citizens of the Czech Republic, because the middle class is falling into the crisis. Then we'll only have the rich and the poor here, and we'll end up like developing countries. These are all packages, umbrellas, but you're not helping anyone in the finals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u34	That was an additional question, and the Prime Minister will use his ability to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u35	The fundamental problem that is on your mind is that when we help Ukrajina or Ukrajinec who run here to save their lives, it is against the interests of Czech people. It's the other way around. Of course it's in the interests of our country and our people. We must help those who want to save their lives, they must save their lives, they do not come here as happy. We just accept them because I don't know which one of you would be if his mommy and the baby were to ring the doorbell in front of his house, who lost everything that wouldn't help her. Well, that's probably not a lot of people. We as a Czech state, of course, also help them. I have shown you on specific numbers and examples how it is with this help and how quickly these people can stand on their own feet. [[15.10 hours]] Yes, we deal with Czech taxpayers' money, we are aware of it, and I am repeatedly talking about it, so we also do not waste money as it was in the past, but we treat it with care. And if you ask what we do for Czech citizens, and you want to compare it, which I do not want to compare, because this is also helping Czech citizens, then I will just remind you of the Umbrella versus the precious from which you will find that the government has provided to help people from state resources, people who have problems with energy prices, with food prices, with inflation of more than CZK 100 billion since the beginning of this year, and you can then compare that with the amounts that we have provided for what you want to separate, that means helping Ukraine and helping refugees. I do not want to separate it, because this too is part of how we manage the effects of war in Ukraine, and that is our task to cope well with a refugee wave that is unprecedented in Europe. [[Time.]] And we do this task not only in the interests of Europe and Ukraine, but above all in the interests of the Czech Republic. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u36	Thank you. I beg you to keep your time. And now we will proceed to another interview, Mr Radek Koten, and then President Alena Schillerová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u37	Dear Prime Minister, I have a lot of questions for you, I don't know if we'll be able to make it in those two minutes, but I hope on that additional question too. You here, in response to one of my previous interventions, responded that you negotiated in the European Union or that you helped make the core and the gas in the environmental mix. Now, as we see, the European Union is probably making fools of you, because it has not passed through Parliament in committees. So they want both the core and the gas removed from the environmental package, so I wonder what we're going to do. The fact that the Němec messed up their decarbonization is what we see because they shut down a lot of heat plants, a lot of nuclear power plants, and I don't see any reason to supply them with our cheap energy here from the Czech Republic and our citizens to have to pay the difference because they're going to buy it back on that stock exchange, our consumers. This is Germany's problem. Some solidarity with Germany in the energy messed up decarbonization, I'm certainly not going to pay for that. Furthermore, the EU binds the price of gas and electricity because it thinks it doesn't matter. Well, from my point of view, it doesn't matter, because it's costing us electricity, our consumers. As for petrol and diesel, your crown 50, where is it? I don't care! Now again the price of oil is 48, 49 kroner. ČEZ shareholders now. As for the small shareholders of ČEZ, about half of the 30 percent belong to such great ones as JP Morgan plus other hedge funds based in tax havens. You're defending here? You have 70 percent, so make sure they don't have dividends or whether they are taxed. Let them stay in the Czech Republic for citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. I'd just ask for a softer voice work again, it was quite intense. The Prime Minister will respond in his time. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u39	Dear Member, that was a number of real questions at once. I'm gonna try to answer some of the time I have at the very least. Of course, you mentioned the question that is really important for the Czech Republic, and that is freedom of energy mix and the possibility that we can continue to work with gas and core in this energy mix. And you mentioned, I don't know if you labeled it that way, but what you're talking about right now is discussing what's called taxonomy. And I have to say, no one... I don't know what term you used, it's not important that someone makes fun of us. No, no one's making fun of us, but we need to know how this process is going. We were able to get into the original taxonomy proposal on all the key levels of negotiation that it contained gas as both a transitional source and a core as a net supported source. This is in the interests of the Czech Republic. And I say fairly, although many things have unfortunately been agreed by the last government, including those fundamental commitments, so in this the previous government has tried to include the core within the taxonomy. We did it. And now there's another fight going on, and it's no less important, and I hope you can help us through the political spectrum. This is no longer a fight in the Council or with the European Commission, where we succeeded, not only in the Czech Republic, but by creating a group of similar-minded countries and creating pressure, so we managed to get the core there. But now, when we discuss the European Parliament, in the key vote that will be at the beginning of July, we need the core and gas to remain in that taxonomy, and that is what we are fighting about, and that is what I was talking about today with the representatives of the various factions of the European Parliament at today's joint meeting of the Government and the Bureau of the European Parliament, which is actually part of the preparations for the Czech Presidency or perhaps already one of the first events of the Czech Presidency. And once again I stressed to them how extremely important it is for some countries, such as the Czech Republic, to preserve the freedom of the energy mix, including the core. And I want to say, it's not enough here to say that everything's wrong and that it's just gonna go wrong. It is necessary to act and it is necessary to convince our partners that the core is necessary for the Czech Republic, not only for the Czech Republic, that without this we will not get rid of dependence on Russian energy sources or dependence on fossil fuels, and that it simply has to be preserved within the taxonomy. I'm not alone in this. There are countries that have also bet on nuclear energy, of which France is the most important and the largest, which is why I have also dealt with Emmanuel Macron, and we are repeatedly trying to form a coalition of countries that support and enforce the core. But we don't have to hide anything here. There are also countries that do not want the core and have long tried not to be among those supported resources. And that's what the debate is about. That's what the fight's about. And there's no way we can say in this fight that we've lost. But it was not me who agreed with other EU leaders that Europe would be 2050 carbonless, in 2030 emissions would be reduced by 55 percent and so on and so on. But it's already happened, it's reality. We're gonna have to meet those targets. And we are trying to achieve the best possible conditions for Czech citizens and Czech companies in this effort. Of course, these are measures relating to this commitment, which I consider premature and unthinkable, which requires ban on internal combustion engines since 2035. We will try to adjust the proposal in the coming weeks in our negotiations so that it is not so strict and that it is less problematic for citizens. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u40	Thank you, and the honourable Member has called for an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u41	Thank you for the floor. I should... I know it's impossible to answer all the questions I've asked you, but there's a privatisation of all those energy companies, which has some background. Of course, it was also for your governments, even for the governments of the ČSSD, as it gradually came. And your TV counselor advises on how to save money, because energy will be expensive, so people should take two sweaters or go to two jobs or eat meat only on the weekend. That's what I saw on Prima last night, by the way. Well, I have a feeling that the Czech Republic does not have a commitment from the European Union to bankrupt people here in the Czech Republic and to get into financial trouble. I don't think in animal kingdoms an animal will ever make an animal the leader of a pack of the biggest fool. Unfortunately, it happened in the EU!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u42	Thank you for keeping time. And the Prime Minister is interested in his reaction. So Petr Fiala, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, will take the floor in a moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u43	But we cannot pretend that we are in favour of ensuring the energy security of the Czech Republic in order to ensure a reasonable price of energy, we have done nothing. Unfortunately, we came to the government in a situation where the energy security of the Czech Republic is not assured, when we are dependent on Russian oil, when no alternative route has been created in the past, the pipeline has not been expanded, we are working on it, gas routes have not been sufficiently operational, there are no alternative sources, we are also working on it, LNG terminals, Stork II and others and others, I can't even figure out what we're doing here. But we are also helping people who are affected by the current price increase. Nearly CZK 3 billion are earmarked to help households who have difficulty paying energy this year. We have created conditions for immediate assistance for those who cannot afford to pay an energy bill. We've increased the housing allowance, which helps hundreds of thousands of people. We've prepared a program for companies he can help. And of course we are going to - and we have already announced - how to establish a state energy trader so that we can have better instruments in hand than the Czech Republic and the Czech Government, and we are also preparing a so-called austerity tariff, which means a tariff that will help everyone with some energy consumption that they will get at a lower cost, and that will lead to both savings and that will make households and individuals better able to cope with these rising prices. [[Time.]] I'm sure our government won't let them down. [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u44	Thanks. Thank you. And even in the meantime, before the President is prepared, I will make an apology, and that is today between 18 and 19 until the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Jan Lacina apologizes. And now, please, may President Alena Schillerová take the floor, and Mr Martin Kukla can prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u45	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, the current publicly available information shows that social services, which are financed primarily by the regions as a founder, are really financially breathing, and this primarily concerns the lack of funds for the wages of social workers. Providers and regions are complaining about lack of finance and are actually threatening social services to collapse. The outage of these funds is planned to match a higher remuneration from clients today, when most of the population is poorer. According to our quantification of social services in the Czech Republic, over CZK 4.5 billion is missing, so you can understand that this is not a small sum. And I ask, what is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs waiting for, or is there an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, if it is finalized? I wonder how much funding the care providers could additionally receive? And I would like to point out here that the government that I was a member has regularly raised funds for social services. We have doubled the money for social services during our reign. But here I'd like to say that if you're saving up for social services, you're saving up for the most necessary ones that you're talking about are your priority, and I really think that collapse is inevitable. So I was gonna ask if you even know about this as Prime Minister, and if you're gonna do something about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u46	Thank you for your time and now the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic will take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u47	Madam President, I know about this as Prime Minister. I'm trying to learn everything quickly, so I also know about social services problems in the meantime. Maybe if you called the interpelation a little more accurate than the effects of inflation, I could give you a slightly more accurate answer, because I don't really wear everything in my head, but I'll give you an answer after all. As regards the financing of social services, the approved budget for 2022 for the provision of social services was CZK 20,5 billion. However, it cannot be said that nothing happened here in the meantime, because there was an increase in the allowance for care, which brought another 2.4 billion crowns into the social services system. In addition to the increase in the care allowance, which, as I said, brought CZK 2.4 billion into the system, there was still an increase in payments for social services, and this increase brought an additional CZK 910 million. So some movement up here actually happened. However, when discussing the state budget - and this needs to be made clear - there was no such great inflation or such high energy prices, so at the moment there is negotiations in the government and at expert level between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance on increasing allocation to the social services system, where we are aware that despite the positive steps that I have mentioned here, that means 2.4 billion contributions to care, 910 million increases in payments to social services, so yet there are just financial problems. What exact number you're calling for will be, we'll know in a few weeks. I'm not in the habit of saying any amounts in advance until we agree on them in the government, we do the math, we don't analyze the impact, and we don't know exactly what it means and what it will bring. But we are aware of this problem and within a few weeks we will do this increase in allocation. In addition, I would like to say that, within the framework of the Government's programming declaration, our aim is to set up a transparent and stable system of financing social services in this area. We consider this important because we have not been satisfied with the system before what inflation is doing to it and what it is doing to increase energy prices. We think it needs a long-term adjustment. That's why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, next to the increase I'm talking about, is preparing a proposal for a change, i.e. an amendment to the Social Services Act. At the same time, however, I want to say that in addition to the increase - and that is what I am claiming - we will do this, and we acknowledge that there is a problem in these social services - we must ensure that we do not continue with the tendencies that cause such high inflation in the Czech Republic. That is why we have put forward an anti-inflationary austerity budget for this year, a budget with a deficit of CZK 280 billion before the war in Ukraine, 96.6 billion less than your government's original proposal, the former government, and even CZK 220 billion less year on year. But even though we are doing this, as I have shown on specific numbers, we are not saving on those who need help, who cannot help themselves, and that is why we have already made the increase. Yes, I admit, we could not have known in the preparation of the state budget that there would be a war in Ukraine, that it would have these consequences. That is why we are now ready to raise money or allocate the amounts that go to social services, and therefore, as we have already discussed here at least during past interpelations or some other time, we are preparing an adjustment to the state budget, which will take into account the effects of Russian aggression on Ukraine in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u48	Thank you very much for keeping time. I'm gonna ask you to keep the bell down, repeat it here in the hall. And now, please, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u49	It wasn't mine. So additional, I'll be quick. Well, Prime Minister, let's see how much of this anti-inflationary budget is going to be, because we haven't seen the novel, we've only seen the plan by 2025, and there's 1,200 billion without this amendment. So let's see what happens in the end. I just want to remind you that if you're talking about that amount, you've heavily funded social services. Because when this funding system started in 2017, $7 405 million went to social services, then it went down for your governments to get behind ours. By 2020, it was 22 199 million, and in 2021 the plan was 24 412 million. So if you're talking about 20,5 billion, we're home! That's exactly the money you took out there that's missing today. And, of course, what you put in there can't be enough. And you'll still have no choice but to amend the state budget bill, trust me, just fill it in. [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]] Otherwise, it's gonna be bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u50	Thank you. And again is there an interest in responding to this supplementary question or comment? Yes. We'll wait... And you can take the word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u51	I am convinced that this is the one thing that we agree on, at least in one aspect. We agree that social services must be financed. And the causes are just clear, inflation, price increases, they can't handle that. I add that the funding was not quite optimal before. Maybe it's not just the sums, it's the way the finances go. I have had the opportunity, as an opposition MP, to speak to people who are engaged in social services repeatedly, and the discontent was long-term, but despite what I said here that we have added and increased, and as we have modified it, I completely agree that the amount that goes on social services is now in place to increase, and we are ready to do so. I assume we'll have the proposal on the table by the end of June.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u52	Thank you. And before we go into the next interpelation, I'm going to reload my apologies. Mrs Barbora Urbanová apologizes today, and it is necessary to load it back, from 10.45 to 11.45 for work reasons, and then Mr Josef Kott apologizes today between 8 and 23 o'clock for work reasons. And please, Mr. Ambassador, you can take the floor with your intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u53	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a simple question, namely the budgetary determination of taxes. When we look at the government's programming statement, it says that the government will change and increase the budgetary determination of taxes. I've interviewed the Prime Minister here once before. He said when he had specific numbers and some kind of analysis from the county, they'd be dealing with it. At this point, I have obtained a proposal through the Regional Association, which envisages an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes from the current 9.78 % to 11 percent. It's about 10 billion for regions that would split up. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he has this material and whether he is counting on an increase in the RUD for the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u54	Thank you. There will now be room for Prime Minister Petr Fiala's response. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u55	Yes. Dear Member, we've already talked about the RUD and some of the things I said the last time, I can only remind you, but I'm not going to do that now. I'll try to give you a different answer. Yes, we have some tasks in the government's programming declaration relating to the RUD. We are talking about maintaining the existing funding of municipalities and changing the budgetary determination of regional taxes on the basis of agreement with the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic and this will be related to an increase in total allocation. We will involve the National Development Bank more in the financial provision of local projects, support project preparation, absorption capacity in regions and municipalities. That's what our programming statement says. This means, quite simply, we will maintain the existing funding of municipalities and change the budgetary determination of regional taxes on the basis of agreement with the Regional Association and increase the overall allocation. We fully respect, of course, the tasks of the Government's programming declaration, which means that it is necessary to prepare an amendment or amendment to the RUD Act concerning taxes. But we don't need the County Association, and that's not how it works, the amount that's supposed to increase the total allocation. We need, and on this we are agreed with the Regional Association, a framework agreement at the level of the Regional Association on the criteria on which the RUD would be redistributed. At this point, I don't have the agreement on my desk, I don't know its parameters, I can't even anticipate when and when the agreement took place, and that agreement, if it is created within the Association of Regions, to justly redistribute the amount that the regions receive between the regions, because it was the main objection of some regions, including the region from which I am from and for which I am a Member, i.e. South Moravian, that it is actually possible to redistribute it, it is no longer consistent with what those regions finance, what the situation is there, and that then some regions are disadvantaged to the population, perhaps or according to other criteria, against others, so that it is possible to adjust it on the basis of other criteria, then we are ready to increase the total amount, because it is clear to us that the adjustment at that point zero cannot seem to be so that it will be redistributed and, in turn, some of some of the money that they are counting. So that's where we're ready for the raise. But we cannot proceed to an increase without the regions agreeing on these criteria. And I've seen different roles, not only in politics, debates about setting the standards and criteria by which something is redistributing, and believe me, it's extremely difficult. There's one pie like that, and now you cut off somebody more, the other one's got less. We said, well, with the basic setup, if you cut someone off more, we'll pay back at the beginning and adjust the RUD accordingly. It's okay. But it has to be preceded by this agreement that, from the top, we just don't turn the government into, this agreement that creates other criteria to redistribute it. If we were to do this, of course, we can imagine a few simple objective criteria - the population, the area and so on, but I know from the negotiations with the Regional Association that it is simply not enough and that they would not be satisfied with it. They argue that they have a wider network of roads, others have regional hospitals, while other regions have more of those regional hospitals and they have faculty hospitals and so on and so on. There are a number of things that come into this, and that's why I say, and here I would honor the principle of subsidiarity. The regions - and the regions said they would - have to agree on these criteria, and then we can agree to increase the total allocation. But without this, you can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u56	Thank you very much for the answer and for keeping time, and there is an interest in the supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u57	Prime Minister, thank you, but I will argue with you. I've been sitting in that working group for three years where we've been dealing with the RUD, and those regions just don't agree, because there's always a region with certain criteria and weights that are good for the county. That is, if they agree, it will mean that some regions will lose money. [[15.40 hours]] That's where they have to go the other way, and those regions came up with it. They came up with it. They have criteria here. It is a proposal for access to a change in the budgetary determination of taxes. It's just in Brno 21. 4., Department of Public Economy, Faculty of Economics of VŠB-TU Ostrava. I got it right here. These are criteria, and the regions are likely to agree mostly, but there is an increase, as I have already mentioned, of 10 billion. And that means that the RUD, the budgetary determination of the tax, would have gone from 9.78 per cent to 11 per cent. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u58	Thank you, and the Prime Minister will respond. [[The sound of a cell phone from the O.R.]] Someone didn't turn off the bell again, please. And please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u59	We must remember, and that is nothing against what I have just said or what you are saying, but we must remember that the budgetary determination of taxes in terms of municipalities and regions has simply been regularly increased. It was raised at the expense of the state budget. Let us remember the last modification of the RUD, which even arose from the initiative of our senators after the adoption of the tax package and really stabilized regional finance. The problem is elsewhere, I don't want to get into this right now. He's not in how it's being redistributed, but it's in what state we took over the public finances from the previous government. But I really don't want to get into that right now. All I'm saying is that if we don't get to creating new redistribution criteria, it doesn't make sense to one-sided increase in RUD. At whose expense is it going to be? So should we raise the total of the state budget? Should we do it at the expense of the community? This isn't the solution. And once again, we're ready to talk about it and raise the RUD for the regions at a time when what they're promising from that region will come true. And the regions are promising fairer criteria to redistribute the money between the regions. That seems understandable and important to me. And we did not save it for the Association of Regions, the regions themselves said, Yes, we will agree on the criteria that will be applied. The moment this happens, then it is really appropriate that we proceed as I said, and there has been an increase in the total amount. But until then, it wouldn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u60	Thank you and Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak with further intervention, Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u61	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, it's also very unpleasant to have you behind my back and I can't see you. In any case, I've already intersected you once about fuel, I mean not just you, but also the Minister of Finance. And I have to say that nothing has really changed since then. Exactly the predictions I had came true. That means, what you promised by mixing up biofuels that you populously canceled with that paragraph 19 didn't happen at all. Section 20 actually requires you - and it's a transposition of the directive. Then I listened to your aide Mr. Křeček. And Prime Minister, if I may recommend, put the Air Law in his hand, so that, when he makes himself an expert on biofuels or incorporation, let him at least look into that law, because he promises citizens something that will not happen. He says he's gonna keep mixing this year, and it's not gonna be next year. It's not true. It's not true and it's not gonna happen! It's better if you really study the law and then tell those citizens something. But to my question: I wonder what kind of medicine you have prepared, because what you applied didn't work, so I wonder what other medicine you have prepared, because other countries around us are going the way you don't want to go. You're saying she's populist to you again. So I'd like to know how you're going to help these citizens, because the price of fuel has climbed to historical value that we haven't experienced yet, so now we've finally seen it, that it can actually get there. So I'd quite like to know what the government is going to do to make the price of fuel for citizens go down for citizens. I understand that VAT doesn't solve entrepreneurs, but it solves the problem for citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u62	Thank you for keeping the time and with the Prime Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u63	Thank you for the question, and I don't mind coming back here because I think it's important. It really affects businessmen, it affects citizens. In our country we are in a situation that many people really depend on driving to work, to relatives, the price of fuel is extremely interesting and, of course, it has an impact on other prices. So it's good we're talking about this. I insist that the fact that we took these measures was important and good and that these measures work. Let me just remind you that yes, a bio-component, that's one thing. Then we also reduced the excise duty, and then we also started checking the margins with the vendors. And just today, the Treasury has published a report that the margins of fuel vendors are falling further. In June, on average, CZK 1.7 per litre were lower than last year, so our measure clearly worked, otherwise it would be even worse. For diesels, in a given month, they were approximately CZK 1.6 per litre lower than last year's average. So you see, for diesel, for petrol, margin control works, and those margins are just lower. If they weren't, the price of diesel and petrol is simply higher in the Czech Republic. I stand by the fact that if we did not agree to lower excise duty - that is another measure - the prices of petrol and diesel would be 1 to 2 crowns higher. You see it when you're watching the price developments. You're not only looking at how old it is today, but you're watching the development, so after 1 June, the price fell, but then, of course, it went up again. But not because we have a problem here on the Czech side, but the main factor is the rise in the price of diesel and petrol on the commodity exchange in Rotterdam. So if we hadn't taken the tax reduction, those prices would have been 2 crowns higher. If we hadn't started monitoring the margins, they wouldn't have been - believe me - two crowns lower than they were last year at the same time. So, thanks to these measures, the prices are about four crowns lower than they would have been if we hadn't taken the measures. It's just facts, clear numbers, and that's it. Yes, I agree with you on one thing: the prices are high, it bothers us, but let us not pretend that we are able to influence the price of oil and fuel in the world. [[He's showing the chart.]] Too bad I don't have it bigger, I would show it to the citizens to see: This is the price from today, the price of petrol and diesel in the Czech Republic. What is red is states where petrol and diesel are more expensive, and what is black is countries where petrol and diesel are cheaper. But even from that, you can see that even where it's cheaper, sometimes it's just very small items. Yes, they have the cheapest petrol and diesel in Belarus, but I don't think that's a country to compare ourselves to. But if you look at the surrounding countries or countries comparable to us, you can see that the prices of petrol and diesel in euro are either higher or the same. Poland is a little better off. So it is obvious that this is the problem that the whole of Europe is facing. This also shows clearly that this factor is really rising stock prices. It is not something that can be influenced by the Czech Republic. But the fact that in this table we are in a better, significant part in the better half, so it is also due to the measures and the measures that we have taken because without margin control, without reducing excise duty, we would not have achieved such results. The fact that it's not satisfactory, that it's a problem for all of us, that's for sure. But it is a pan-European problem and the Czech Republic is far from the worst.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u64	Thank you, Prime Minister. Once again, of course, there is interest and opportunity to speak with an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u65	As for the biofuels, that's given to the fuel suppliers, isn't it, we're not going to talk about the sellers who have the pumps. I don't think there's a problem. The problem is in the refineries. Not there, but somewhere else. And I understand that these refineries are hard to solve, and it's complicated because neither refinery is ours. The next thing we have to say, I'm not saying on a microphone here, but admit it: from each liter you have 50 per cent to the state register roughly, whether it's diesel or petrol. So I understand that the price cuts are quite draconian for you, because it would take your money from your cash register. But I haven't seen anywhere, I haven't seen a processed impact study, what benefit it would be or wouldn't be, if there was a reduction in excise duty and a reduction in VAT - I'm not saying cancellation, but a reduction in VAT - as it would be in terms of... [[Time. Time, Madame.]] [[It is turning towards the President.]] I'm just gonna finish this, the sentence-- I'm sorry-- how it would show up from the point of view of sales. [[Time.]] That means if there wasn't a bigger sale. [[I have to measure them all equally.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u66	I have to measure everyone the same way. I beg you to keep your time. And the Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u67	Well, we see the effects of VAT interference, because we can see what is happening in some of the countries that have acceded to it. And I think it is clear that, apart from the significant intervention in the state budget, it did not have any major effect on the price in those countries. So this is definitely not the way, and we don't want to go this way. On the contrary, our measures, very reasonable ones, lead us to reach the better half in terms of prices. And I think this is the way we're supposed to go, you know? We're not going to be able to use that money to help people who really need it, and we don't have any confidence that the impact on prices, because look at it, those tables, they're data from today, it's publicly traceable that the impact on prices in the countries that did it was somehow significantly better. [[He's showing the material.]] You touched the refinery problem. Yes, I think that the Czech Republic is not quite well in terms of its impact on infrastructure and on key things in energy, but we are also not sitting empty-handed. Just yesterday I had a meeting here with the management of ORLEN and we talked about how the refineries will proceed, what they will do for it - because this is also a problem in the Czech Republic - so that we can have enough diesel for citizens and companies and that the petrol and petrol will be at affordable prices. And I think that even these refinery owners realize how important this is for the Czech Republic, and the government is putting so much pressure on it that it really does not take advantage of the market position. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u68	Thank you. And now, while Mr Martin Kolovratník is prepared, I will read the apology of Mr Stanislav Blaha and Mr Jakub Janda from today's meeting from 18 to the end of the day for working reasons. And now, please, the Member may take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u69	Thank you for the floor, Prime Minister, good afternoon. My theme will be from the Department of Transportation, probably from the title or the name of the interpelation you know, you suspect its content. I would like to ask you about the issue of your planned action on banning the sale of cars, cars with internal combustion engines. In a quick recap, I will remind you that this is a report last week from the beginning of June, when the European Parliament approved a proposal that says that it will be prohibited from selling new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles with internal combustion engines since 2035. And I'm also correct in saying that we know that you can answer it or you can establish that it will be the subject of further negotiations, not a definitive conclusion. I'm interested in this. I'd like to ask you that. We both know that the Czech Republic is dependent on a very high percentage of work on car manufacturing, that is, our management, the management of large Czech companies and car companies, this decision will dramatically affect in the future. In our position, which is negative, where the ANO movement does not agree with the proposal here, I quote to your opinion my fellow MEP Martina Dlabajová, who called it a blow to the Czech automotive industry, but also a blow to consumers, to citizens. "We must assume that this will cause a major draft in the citizens' wallets in the future, and I will also hope that the Member States will find compromise solutions in subsequent negotiations, which will mitigate the impact on companies and improve people's prospects for purchasing new cars," I quote to MEP Martina Dlabajová. You, Prime Minister, and maybe we all agree, we know this is a big problem, especially these days. And I now have the first question: did you deal with this in the coalition because the pirát on that European soil were in favour of what is the official position of the Czech government? And the second-- fast-- the question is, have you already discussed this with AutoSAP, the Car Industry Association? [[Thank you. Time.]] [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u70	I will ask very much for the respect of time, it is necessary to measure everyone really fairly as well. And now the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u71	Of course, honourable Member, this decision has a great impact and would have a great impact not only on the automotive industry, I also agree with you, although, if we look at the decisions of some of the major motor groups that will go in the direction and how they will end their own production of cars with internal combustion engines, we see that they are already ready for this, but of course the even more serious impact it has on citizens, you mentioned that in the context of the quote from your Member's speech, because the fundamental question is this: if such a ban is approved, then a reasonable, affordable alternative must be ensured for citizens. This means that I would understand such a ban when we were sure that in 2035 every citizen would be able to buy a new or used car, an electric car at a price that would be available to him, that the cars would be enough to build enough infrastructure to have enough energy to charge all of these and that all these conditions would be met. We do not yet have such certainty, and therefore I consider this intervention or this decision to be mistimed and unthinkable and not entirely appropriate in this critical situation. You yourself mentioned that some MEPs voted in favour, most voted against, including yours, ours and the coalition MEPs. What are we gonna do? First of all, when you say that the YES movement is against, I am glad to hear it, but the problem is that Green Deal has agreed as a whole before, the climate law, there are no concessions negotiated for the Czech Republic, neither the core nor the question of the actual ban on cars with internal combustion engines, so here we are crying over spilled milk. We, within our Presidency, want to discuss the compromise text of legislation in the so-called trialogues, and we will strive at least to ensure that the ban in 2035 is not 100 per cent, but 90, which is a chance that it might have support in some of the European Parliament's fractions. It would therefore be possible to maintain freedom or the possibility of producing cars with internal combustion engines even after 2035. The European Parliament therefore approved its position on the proposal that it still wants to negotiate with - you also said that there is room for negotiation - with the Member States, at the level of the Member States, the environmental ministers will discuss it in Luxembourg on 27 and 28 June. Minister Hubáčková will go there with a mandate to support a solution that will benefit Czech citizens. We, as I say, will at least try to get him to go through this compromise proposal, which will create the conditions for us to be able to make these cars after 2035. [[16.00 hours]] If there's a deal, it's not entirely certain. It seems that the French Presidency, but I do not want to anticipate it, perhaps I am wrong that they will fail to reach agreement between the Member States, and then the Czech Presidency will have the task of negotiating the outcome with the European Parliament in accordance with the approved position of the Council. And here I dare to presume that these negotiations will not be simple or short. The position of the Czech Republic is that we support the gradual reduction of emissions in newly produced cars, but we consider it inappropriate to ban combustion engines with the date 2035.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u72	Thank you. And there's room for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u73	Yes, I'll use my space. Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. So I understand your words or I understand that the position of the Czech Government will be against you trying to continue to negotiate some exception or mitigation, thank you for that. I've recorded it. I'm sure you have the support for us in this. My follow-up questions are two. First of all, we know that this is going to work out and that we need to prepare for it, so we need to build infrastructure, charging stations and so on. I know Minister Kupka just opened one of the other stations recently. But against that is your current proposal, the current draft state budget for next year, where the Ministry of Transport is losing money, I suspect some 45 billion. So I'm asking, and I'm asking for a clear, brief answer, if the Department of Transport asks for more money just for this infrastructure, if it will be answered, and secondly - how do you want to prevent these cars from being expensive for people, if you're thinking about some subsidies for electric cars, hydrogen cars and the like, or if you're not planning to do something like that yet?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u74	Time, thank you. Response, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u75	Thank you for the additional question. I will try to answer very briefly. What we have in accordance with the law as regards the budget had to present at this point, it will really still be adjusted and it will admit significant changes, because we are in such a turbulent situation that at this moment the numbers simply cannot be given precisely. We have already increased the resources that went on investment this year, and we intend to continue to do so. But I really want to agree with you on one thing. We will fight to mitigate the ban and for some sensible solution, no doubt we will. But we must all realise what has already happened, what is the point of this development in Europe and be prepared for it. That's why I'm convinced, and you said it yourself, that we need to focus on building the necessary infrastructure, charging stations and other things so that we don't be surprised that there are cars at once, people get them, that they have to be produced at a price that is comparable or better than cars with internal combustion engines today, people want them, and we don't have the necessary infrastructure here. We also need to think about how to make these electric cars cheaper for people, and I totally agree with you. The road that Germany is going to give 9,000 euros for each electric car is probably not the way that the Czech budget could afford. We've been thinking about other tools. Let's talk about them together, maybe it could be a reduction in the depreciation of electric cars, which would lead companies to exchange them faster, the more used electric cars we get to the market, where they will be more affordable for citizens. That's one way to go. But let's look for the roads, because I think the direction that the car companies have already taken is clear, too. And we as a state should create conditions for citizens so that they can move on well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u76	Thank you, and we have exhausted the time when it is possible to interpel to the Prime Minister. Now there will be an interview on the other members of the government, and we will take turns in the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am initiating oral interpelations, and I call on this Member, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, to present an interview with the Minister of Agriculture, Zdeněk Nekula, to initiate a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. And please prepare Mrs. Malá. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u78	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I give up because the Minister is not present, so I'll intersect him next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u79	Yes, the Minister is excused. So I'd like to ask Mrs malý to give an interview to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Vice-President of the Government of Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon. Dear Minister, you have certainly seen several articles in the press in recent days, the subject of which is the sexual abuse of dozens of children each year, when the perpetrator is the person who is supposed to supervise the children. They are coaches, teachers, leaders, even though they abuse children repeatedly, then they continue to organize children's camps or start children's clubs. How is that possible? Will it be worth doing anything about it? These questions were raised by the Czech Radio in connection with an absurd situation where people who repeatedly abuse children can continue to work because of considerable gaps in Czech laws with children. Our laws allow a sex offender to be banned from working with children only in cases where he's already worked with them at the time of the felony for which he's in court. In addition, the crime had to be carried out in connection with the activity in question. According to Police Presidium statistics, the crime lab investigated 36 such cases last year. Vávra, president of the judicial union, said that if the state allows forbidding work with children only to those who have already worked with them and committed a crime because of it, it is a clear gap in the laws. In Slovakia they have the possibility to grant laws of activity preventively even in the future, even if the person currently does not carry out any activity with children, but threatens to be able to do so in the future. [[Bans?]] As regards the lifelong ban on activities with children, 11 countries of the European Union are using it. As far as you are concerned, according to the iRozlas server, you yourself have responded to all the gaps in the law so that there are 130 000 Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic at the moment and you have to do other things and you can't handle everything. How, then, will you deal with the safety of children and adolescents who go to school, attend courses, extracurricular activities, or go to camps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u81	Thank you. Interpellation was to Minister Gazdík, I'm sorry I switched it. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u82	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madame. I certainly don't want to downplay the situation. The sexual abuse of children by their leaders or tutors is appalling. I have four children myself, so I know the parents' concern for them and their well-being. Unfortunately, the problem is long-term, when your government had eight years to solve it, but it didn't do anything about it. Fortunately, each of those cases, which are about four tens a year, sheds bad light on all tutors or summer camp leaders. Now, after a widely mediated case of abuse, there are opinions as to whether it would be appropriate in any way to anchor a ban on working with children for people with a criminal offence in the past or to ask every child worker and youth to extract the criminal record. In part they have it actually treated in Slovakia. However, I would like to add that the newly registered associations do not register the Ministry of Education, so the question would rather be for the Minister of Justice. However, we are prepared, and I have discussed this with the Minister of Justice, and we are ready to deal with the situation. What I needed to do this, and why I also told Czech Radio that I was asking to wait, is a meeting with the Czech Council of Children and Youth, where they don't think too much that duty and, as the Czech Radio reporter suggested, that whoever is actually setting up the organization must hand over the criminal record - it is certainly possible in the law that they must have a clean criminal record when the association writes, but that doesn't solve who works with the children, because there are a number of children working in the association. [[People?]] I myself am a member of Junák and the scouts have a very developed, quite developed growth system, whether it's a waiting test or a leadership test, where the conditions are quite strict and the filtration occurs. [[16.10 hours]] There is a solution for the future, so we agreed with the Czech Council of Children and Youth that we want to start working on the Youth Support Act in the next half of the year, and we would also define the conditions under this Youth Support Act. But the idea that every leader in front of each camp or before each event has to provide a clean statement from the criminal record is bureaucratically demanding and I am not sure that this would lead to a solution. I see the solution in other ways, in the increased activity of youth organisations that should know who they are receiving, education and communication inside, but that is what we are talking about with youth organisations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u83	Thank you. The Member still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u84	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I am absolutely not satisfied with your answer, because the criminal record doesn't solve anything, because at the moment the penalties are wiped out by the originally convicted person, they won't find out if he's a person who has any criminal history he's committed in connection with the children. So I think we need to approach this issue in a completely different way. I invite you to this meeting of the Sub-Committee on Domestic Sexual Violence, where I would like us to sit together with the Ministry of Justice, with you and the Ministry of the Interior on this. There were several proposals at the last meeting that could be resolved, and it could be, for example, a certificate that would not actually be a statement from the register or anything like that, only a certificate would be issued that the person is able to work with the children and has no criminal history. But one more thing. I've intersected you for the second time today, and you've told me here again that our government hasn't done anything. You promised to change, so stop making excuses for us all the time. [[The President: Time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u85	Thank you. The Minister still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u86	I can see I've been hitting you alive, but I'd like to assure you that I totally agree with you. The idea for the criminal record is not mine, but it is the reporter of the Czech Radio who pressured me to answer to tell him that we will ever do this, and I was telling him - in fact, I agree with your opinion - that this is not the solution to the problem, that someone who establishes a club will add... Among other things, teachers have it automatically from their studies, the confirmation, so teachers may not have it, and everyone applying for school, the confirmation, precisely because the criminal record must be handed over to their principal when they enter school, so that this is solved by the educators, the problem is really with youth organisations. I am happy to accept your challenge, I will be very happy to come to the subcommittee and look for a common solution. And I'm so glad that you gave me the interview and that we agreed that the founder's criminal record is not a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u87	Well, thank you. Lenka Dražilová is another Member who is interested in intersecting Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u88	Dear Minister, my interpellation will be very short and has essentially resulted from the question of the citizens of my electoral region. I would like to ask whether the Ministry of the Interior already has a strategy or plan on how the accommodation of refugees from Ukraine will continue to take place, which, together with the regions, is now being accommodated by the undertaking of natural persons. I've been told, and I know that these people have concluded agreements that are mostly by the end of the year, and I'm asking if it's planned that these agreements will then, of course, if the war continues, whether they'll be extended or what happens next, because people who rent their cabins or some recreational objects obviously have these order calendars, so they'd like to know what you're planning to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u89	Thank you, and before the Prime Minister comes to the counter, I will apologise to Mrs Peštová from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for work reasons and Mr Výborný from 16 a.m. to the end of the day, this time for family reasons. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u90	Thank you, Vice-President, for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework now approved, so far in the House of Lex Ukraine III, we are giving the regions the opportunity to conclude contracts with accommodation providers in a way that has been done, except that it has now been on the basis of government crisis regulations, with Lex Ukraine III the legal way will be different, it will be the creation of some kind of public contracts and it will be a public service that is enshrined directly in the law. The proposal was created directly in coordination with the regions and in cooperation with the regions. As far as the hosts are concerned, those contracts that have been concluded will continue to apply, which means that even after the emergency, those contracts that are listed in the accommodation system continue to flow. Those changes in the concept of the contract, the contractual document, will be very small for the future, and if the temporary protection institute extends at European level, we will, of course, also respond to this in the way in which contracts will continue to be concluded. But what I'd like to say here is that competence is being transferred to the edge at that point. For the temporary protection itself, it is not the decision of the Czech Republic. So far, temporary protection is dating from Europe to 31. 3. If the war continued, there would be ways and ways in which people would continue to reside in the territory of the Czech Republic, whether - or at all, the European Union - temporary protection would be stopped and we would then go into the regime of normal asylum applications or not. And as a result, the accommodation system itself will certainly be in line with that. But at this point, the old contracts will be valid. So it just depends on the edges whether it will extend them further or not if it is needed. I hope we met factually in the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u91	Thank you. Is there any further interest in the supplementary question? It is not, so we can proceed to another interpellation and this is Mr Nacher, who is interested in interpelling Minister Gazdík. The MP isn't here, so the interpellation is failing. And the next in line is Mrs Mádlová, who will interpel Mr Gazdík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u92	Hello. Dear Minister, I am asking you how pre-school education is systemically solved in connection with the war crisis in Ukraine. From the available data and information from representatives of municipalities, teaching staff, parents and also from municipalities, it is known that the capacity of kindergarten schools is and will be insufficient in some regions. For example, in the Plzeň Region, the region Tachovska, Prague, the Central Bohemia Region and so on, the municipalities, or the southern Bohemia, those regions and municipalities are basically a lot. It is true that this is primarily a matter of self-government, but the war crisis is simply a matter of state, and without the help of the state, self-government is not necessary. I have also noted your statement, where you share the concerns of many people, that there will basically be insufficient capacity in pre-school education, and in this context I would like to ask you whether your department has specific data on how the situation in Czech pre-schools in regions will look in September, namely in the age category of five years when compulsory pre-school education is provided by law. And if, or if you assume that there will be insufficient capacity somewhere, how specifically you will address this situation and how specifically you will address financial, personnel, technical and material equipment assistance to those self-governments. I would like to ask you for a realistic and possibly pessimistic option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u93	Thank you. Before the minister comes to the counter, one canceled note, Mr. Lipavský since 16.45. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u94	Madam, I'll start with the capacity. Capacities of kindergarten schools whose investigation was carried out by the Ministry of Education since 28. 3. to 7. 4th of this year, in an extraordinary screening investigation in connection with the effects of the Ukrainian crisis, a total of 12 896 vacancies were shown by kindergarten schools in the Czech Republic on 7 April 2022. Celorepublikovy is sufficient capacity of kindergartens and primary schools, problems are, as we agree, local, in Prague, in the ring around Prague, in Pilsen, Brno and also in Tachovsko, as you said. The highest available capacity of kindergartens for the placement of other children coming from Ukraine is shown by the Moravian-Silesian Region, which currently has 1,667 vacancies, which is 12,9% of all primary schools' free capacity, of which 1,530 in public schools. According to the date of 10 June 2022, there are 11,600 seats in kindergartens, i.e. as of 10 June after entry. There are now 4,000 Ukrainian children in kindergartens, and up to 9,000 more places can be created since September. We also asked in the questionnaire, and we run the database, and she keeps up-to-date with the school directors. We know in detail how many places each school has available, and we also provide that information to, say, the Central Crisis Staff. In primary schools, among other things, there are 146 000 vacancies on 10 June, primary schools are now attending 27 000 Ukrainian children and 33 000 additional children can be expanded from September, so 146 plus 33 000 can be expanded. In that case, capacity is sufficient. The problem will, of course, be locally, especially in Prague, in the ring around Prague and again in Brno, in Pilsen, and in České Budějovice. In accordance with the laws and measures in the field of education in the context of armed conflict, we are together - I believe that you, too, raised your hand for him - approved the law of lex Ukraine II this week. It is intended only for children covered by temporary protection. It applies to schools, including those with full capacity. He determines that these schools do not actually have to comply with normal hygiene conditions or capacity, they can request an increase in capacity if necessary. Ukrainian children now have minutes by July 15th, so we will know completely what the problem is on July 15th. The methodological commentary on the law contains a precise procedure for the heads of kindergartens for the course of administrative or special registration, a procedure that occurs when the full capacity is not accepted, so if the director of the school does not accept the child due to full capacity, he shall inform the founder without delay, the founder shall discuss with the directors of the other kindergartens which he establishes the possibility of receiving the child in one of these schools. If no further school is organised by the founder or any of the other schools established, because of capacity, it is not possible to accept the child, the founder shall inform the competent regional authority. The Regional Authority shall, after consulting the other founders and school directors, designate another school within its competence to receive the child. The Regional Authority is entitled to designate not only the school of founders, which are municipalities or associations of municipalities, but also the school of a private or church founder. If, because of the full capacity of all schools established in a particular region, a child cannot be accepted, the Regional Authority will inform the Ministry of Education, the Department of Regional Education, and we will address the situation. The second option, when it occurs, is the main option that has been used for years, is the so-called children's groups and we are currently working together. Children's groups belong to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but we work together and are prepared if we know on 15 July that there is a problem massively, administratively as simply as possible to help the founders in setting up children's groups where it is really needed. The next steps will be in the spare capacity investigation from 15. 7. and this is the law of lex Ukraine II.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u95	Thank you. There is an interest in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u96	Minister, thank you for your answers, but you have not answered me specifically. I want to ask if you have a specific overview of how many five-year-olds there are up to now, especially in critical areas where there is insufficient capacity, because they have to get in. This also applies to foreigners, when within 90 days they simply have to participate in preschool education, or if you keep records of those five-year-olds. Then I wonder, you didn't give me much of a picture of either the realistic or the pessimistic variant in those critical areas, if it really solves it, because it's also about finances, because, for example, in Prague, kindergartens are in old buildings and there is no way to expand capacity. Are there going to have to be some sort of detachment workstation? Then the question is whether they'll only be Ukrainian classes, or if you'll try to put them together, which would make sense, but not everywhere. So you didn't answer my second question. Will there be any exceptions to the fact that someone will not be able to attend preschool education for any reason as regards, for example, Ukrainian children of five years old? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u97	Time, time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u98	I'm so sorry, I didn't understand or I didn't notice that you asked about five-year-olds specifically. Yes, we are registering them and there should be no problem except for the really exceptional areas of Prague according to the data we have at the moment. As for other things, I am sorry, I have just mentioned the law of lex Ukraine II, in which all these things and individual steps are described. As far as funding is concerned, when schools increase the number of pupils or the number of classes, this becomes a normal mandatorial expenditure. If we are talking about creating purely Ukrainian classes, yes, it is possible under the law of lex Ukraine II. Our goal is to maximize adaptation, but where there really are no places in schools including kindergartens, it is possible to create Ukrainian classes in other areas. And as far as financial assistance is concerned, this is more of a matter for the Ministry of Regional Development, but I do not want to make excuses for that, and of course, of the founder. At this point, we are talking especially about Irop in kindergartens, which will contribute to the construction of new kindergartens in the coming years, but this is not really a question by September. Of course, you won't be building any new kindergarten until September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u99	Thank you. The next person to interpel, this time Minister Baxa, is Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Baxo, I am addressing you today in connection with the National Theatre. Lately, and it's not a matter of days or weeks, but months, there's a lot of criticism around me to run the National Theatre. I think that criticism has come to you, too. I did some background work on it. I've met with the director, and I want to ask you how you're going to deal with the situation that the National Theatre is becoming increasingly dependent on the state, which means that its self-sufficiency, the percentage, is decreasing very rapidly, and at this point it's at 16 percent. This means that when it is recounted, the amount of CZK 6,355 plus minus is paid to one ticket, it may not be quite accurate. It's more than five times that before Director Burian came in. It's also due, of course, to the fact that there's a covid time, but there's no excuse for that, because the time won't be much better now. But another big problem is also the cost of occupying artists, when, in addition to the permanent ensemble, foreign guests are very often occupied for high fees, even for minor roles. And I hear that from all sides. Our home artists are being pushed into the background and are not being used. And I consider this a very bad approach, and I want to ask you whether the Ministry of Culture is seriously concerned with criticism that goes 100% to you as well as to me whether you are investigating the management of the first scene or even preparing a scenario to reverse the adverse development of our biggest, most important cultural stand. [[16.30 hours]] And I have one more question, and that's fixing the new scene. Mr. Burian tells me that you're dealing with this, that there may be money, but he doesn't know anything specifically, so I'm asking you. In connection with this, I also ask about the preparation of the Act on Public Cultural Institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u101	Thank you, and Minister Baxa has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u102	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleague, thank you for your intervention. If you may have specified the name of the interpelation, I could have already had some more specific numbers, which, of course, I don't have in my head, but if you're interested, we're ready to fill them in specifically. I'll just say three things in general. The National Theatre is, of course, our most important institution, a contribution organization that is established in the field of living culture, and is of course of fundamental importance, as defined in the National Theatre's founding list. It actually covers all the genres that traditionally belong to the theatre. It operates several big scenes, and it is simply an organization that always attracts attention in this, say, ecosystem of Czech culture. I don't want to cut down on what you're asking me in any way right now, in relation to the internal traffic, how individual employees or guests are being cast into roles. I, too, have received several suggestions, some anonymous, some specific ones that have been specifically addressed, and I will certainly respond to them here. Like I'm saying, I don't want to reduce what you're asking, or make it any less difficult, but I just want to say that the attention is always drawn to the National Theatre in this regard, and it's also consistent with the reactions that appear. What you asked at the outset about self-sufficiency is a big, important subject. The National Theatre has always had a relatively high level of self-sufficiency in front of the covid that is a contribution organisation that provides a public cultural service, and I am referring to the "properly high" level of self-sufficiency compared to similar institutions or institutions that have similar operations. After the covideo pandemic, the numbers aren't coming back yet. There is a very simple reason, because a very significant part of the audience at the National Theatre in the opera segment was made up of foreign Prague visitors who are accustomed to the excellent level of the Czech opera, and actually a visit to the State Opera for some segment of tourists was always a very important event of their programme here in Prague. This has not been achieved yet, and this also corresponds to the reduced income that the National Theatre has received. I'm sure we can add some other numbers afterwards. This is only to explain why the attendance of the National Theatre has not yet returned to the original numbers, among other reasons. Otherwise, cultural institutions in general are currently suffering from the fact that the viewers return slowly. As for the reconstruction of the New Stage, I have currently commissioned or recently commissioned some complete review of all the investment projects of the Ministry of Culture that are entered in the special investment programme, if I say so simply, in the so-called national cultural treasure, where large projects are focused on our largest contribution organisations, and not because I have any doubts about how they are prepared, but for a very simple reason whether the prices with which they are registered correspond to the facts in this programme - they do not, of course, correspond to how the costs are growing - and what this will mean. We'll be waiting for an evaluation of this program, I'd say within weeks. The new scene of the National Theatre definitely needs reconstruction. I guess you're not the only one in this hall who's been on the New Stage lately, the conditions are unsatisfactory. The reconstruction is quite advanced in the preparation, I think we're ahead of the building permit. This means that we have done a lot, but also the reconstruction of the New Stage will actually have to go through this process, considering our possibilities in connection with the limited resources. But anyway, we're still counting on the reconstruction of the New Scene. The National Theatre needs a new scene. This is due to the fact that the historical building of the National Theatre as well as the Estates Theatre for the operation of certain types of drama are less suitable and simply a scene for, say, modern, alternative or some kinds of acting is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u103	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u104	I'm definitely interested. You haven't failed me again, Minister. I know the percentage. Before Mr. Burian's entry, 40 percent was self-sufficiency, and now it's 16 percent. And as he told me, he's going to end up in red again, which I think is a big problem, because here we have a valid law. I wonder how you'll handle it. But the other thing. You didn't answer my question. Will the reconstruction of the New Stage start this year or not? And if not, when will it start, because next year you're counting on other cuts in the field of culture. And another question you haven't answered. At what stage is the Act on Public Cultural Institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u105	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u106	Well, I didn't really answer that one question, and I'm sorry. Even if the test of how our investment options are now set up, New scenes favorable, so this year's reconstruction will definitely not start because the event doesn't have a building permit. That's important. [[Ms Pokorná Jermanová, outside the microphone, opposes: He has a building permit.]] Well, I don't have the information yet whether it's been issued in the nearest or in recent days, but it wasn't issued a few weeks ago anyway. But that's not the basic problem. But if we take it: so far there is no building permit, even if there is little, the announcement of the competition would probably not take place this year to start the reconstruction. But, of course, if there was money, the reconstruction could start next year. But as I say, for such actions, it's dependent on whether they have the basic documentation and whether they have a valid permit. As far as self-sufficiency is concerned, of course, we can say this in some specific details. As I'm saying, if you'd written in an interview, the state of the National Theatre, I'd have them by now. We can definitely talk about them later. As far as the public cultural institution is concerned, I have assembled a working group consisting of the employees of the Ministry of Culture and experts of two key associations, the Association of Professional Theatre and the Association of Symphony Orchestras and Professional Choirs. Work on the Act on the Public Cultural Institution has been started and we have a rather strict term for it - by the middle of next year the bill must be finished and, as soon as there is an internal agreement on the bill, I will also involve external actors who are actively interested in it: Association of Regions, Trade Union Organisations and so on and then classic commentary proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u107	Well, thank you. Another interviewer is Mr Havlíček, who will interpel the Minister of Síkela. So before I give my word, please, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u108	Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, my interpellation will be very short. I ask you to answer four questions, very briefly, regarding the austerity tariff, which is now being discussed a lot and which is probably already at some more advanced stage of preparation. [[16.40 hours]] First question: In what countries is this tariff, that is, where have we been inspired? Question two: will it apply to companies and households or only to households? Question 3: What will be the support? There are several versions so far. One of them was yours, Minister - between CZK 16 billion and CZK 25 billion, another was Minister Gazdík - about CZK 50 billion, so there is a big shot. Fourth: If there are no heating plants connected - which I have registered - what is the reason that 4 million households that are connected to the heating plants will not be able to use this? Which is a typical example of who's in the panels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will now ask Minister Síkela for an answer. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u111	Madam President, Mr Havlíček, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly present the intention of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to help households. That is one of the answers to your question, Mr Havlíček, through Madam President. Indeed, the tariff will only apply to households. For companies, we are preparing another form of support to address the unprecedented increase in energy prices, mainly due to military aggression in Ukraine, through an austerity tariff. The Ministry of Industry and Trade prepared a discount on electricity or gas, i.e. an austerity tariff in the amendment to the Energy Act, which will be discussed by the government on 22 June 2022. The mentioned tariff is intended for all households that take away gas or electricity. This will be the fixed amount that the state will pay for the household from the annual energy bill. Its height is determined according to what the household electricity - that is, according to the principle of light, cooks, drowns - or gas - cooks, heats water and drowns - uses. Technically, the amount of the electricity discount will be based on the distribution rate at the given demand point and for gas according to the quantity collected. Everything will be administratively very simple. No one's gonna have to ask for anything. The discount from the state will automatically be received by the consumer in billing his energy supplier before the start of the heating season. It will also be possible to reduce backups by the amount of the discount, which will have a positive impact on the cash flow of the customer. Whoever collects both commodities gets a discount on electricity and gas. Technically, it will provide the flow of money from the state budget to electricity and gas traders who will show a discount to customers, market operator, STE, a.s. This solution will enable the government to react flexibly to the development of the situation. The amount of the discount, the category of customers receiving the discount, and other details are specified by the government by its regulation. The system is therefore designed flexibly so that, if necessary, the government can decide at any time whether to increase the discount. It's not about giving people out for consumption, it's about targeted reductions in their energy bills. I will present more details after the Government meeting 22. 6. 2022. As far as the question of heat plants is concerned, I am aware that this tariff does not address this. We are trying to find solutions by supporting the modernisation of heating. So far, this solution is serious that we do not have notification from the European Union. That is why, at the moment, we are looking for another way to support the heating industry in the Czech Republic so that this support, which could be received from the state, can be transferred to prices for final heat consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u112	Thank you, Minister. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u113	Yes, thank you. An important question you haven't answered is how much resources are going to be allocated, or how much is supposed to cost, or what the final support will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u114	The Minister will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u115	I would like to present the specific outlines, including numbers and impacts on the state budget, at a separate press conference after this measure and the other measures are discussed by the government. You mentioned the numbers here. The way I'm going to put it is that the amounts I'm talking about are the amounts that are going to be related to the cost-effective tariff. That amount, which Mr Gazdík said, seems to have been talking about the total amount that we are preparing as a measure to help households and companies in the context of what we are going to discuss in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u116	Thank you, too, Minister. We will now focus on the eighth interview that Mr Miloslav Janulík has drawn. Interpels Minister Jan Lipavský on Israel's support. Mr. Roman Kubíček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u117	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, we are indignant by your personal decision - I speak now for the true friends of Israel - when you refused to join the condemnation of the UN Human Rights Council report, in an objective and biased way again criticizing Israel. Your personal opinion is not the position of the Czech Republic and you have, in my opinion, damaged our interests. Our key allies in the U.S. and other NATO countries were immediately perceived as such. A total of 22 countries around the world rejected this report, including eight from Europe - Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Germany, Hungary, North Macedonia, Holland and the United Kingdom. The resolution in question S-30/1, which determined the mandate of the commission of inquiry established last year after Israel was attacked by rockets from Gaza, was then responded by protest by a number of states on this committee represented - Austria, Bulgaria, Germany and the United Kingdom, including protests from the Czech Republic, namely ours. Now, when the report of this commission of inquiry met with a decisive resistance of 22 countries from all over the world and the Czech Republic to surprise many, and especially us, it is silent. What does this silence mean? How do you explain, Minister, the fundamental contradiction in turning the helm of Czech foreign policy to Israel by 180 degrees in a short period of time? Or isn't that a contradiction and you're just continuing your stance in October 2019? At that time you were on the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, abstaining from voting on points condemning the boycott of the state of Israel, and, among other things, calling on the government to strongly oppose all forms of anti-Semitism. I do not accept the forthcoming Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU as a justification. No attempt to reach an agreement at EU level was made, according to my information, in the Council of the EU or in the trio with France and Sweden. Therefore, in this case, I would consider your position to be a complete resignation to the foreign policy of the Republic and, with the Presidency just approaching, a step forward, when you are carefully backing out of active European foreign policy. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u118	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister of Foreign Affairs to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, allow me to assure you that the pirát are not turning the wheel of Czech foreign policy as the headline in the Lidové noviny sounds. We are still linked to Israel by common fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human rights. It is also true that Israel is, unfortunately, an isolated exception throughout the region of the Middle East. Active support for human rights in the world is also a priority of our government. Our government is pursuing this through various means. One of these means is also involvement in the work of the UN Human Rights Council. We succeeded in being re-elected there a month ago, replacing Russia, and gaining really broad international support for this election. Our ambition goes on and we would also like to become the chair of the country next year on this Human Rights Council. I believe that if this ambition is successful, it can be an advantage in terms of our strategic partner Israel as well. [[16.50 hours]] And as far as the specific position of the Czech Republic is concerned, it does not change. When the special institute was voted on, the Czech Republic had the position in May 2021 when it voted against. And as a country with an ambition to preside over the UN Human Rights Council and as a country, as you have already mentioned correctly, which will chair the European Union, today we have devoted very intensively to this as a whole government, so we have taken a position when we have significantly influenced the position of the European Union on this issue. And so, in the current session of the UN Human Rights Council, we have prepared a joint EU project, and we have put into it a text that expressed the European Union's concerns about the broad mandate and the permanent nature of the commission of inquiry, which in English is a concern about its broad mandate and permanent nature, which was also part of the text presented by the United States, and these wordings will continue to be used in further negotiations on the commission of inquiry not only at the UN Human Rights Council, but also at the UN General Assembly in New York, so I consider it a major result. And I would say, for example, that the information that is now in the media - and I understand it, we have not made any more comments for the Ministry - so now I have the possibility, so this argument has not been completely communicated to the public. And we've been communicating this with the United States. What I consider to be partly problematic and actually led me to decide not to join, was a general criticism of all those priority mandates, as approved by the Human Rights Council. It is with the ambition of the Presidency to join this challenge that this would also call into question the investigative mandates in Ukraine or the special rapporteur on the human rights situation in Belarus. And that's where their future extension might not be completely automatic and let's say we want to keep some room for discussion. Otherwise, I would like to conclude with my reply to assure you that the principal position of the Czech Republic will not change, it is government policy, the government has it in its programming statement. For example, the Czech Republic has long rejected the existence of point 7 of the Agenda, which is actually the only point that specifically focuses on one country, Israel. When we were a member of the Human Rights Council, we voted against it. Now, the last time we weren't here in March, we're supposed to be here again, so we're gonna be able to take part in this meeting. And the same goes for our activities at the UN General Assembly, which I no longer have room to talk about. I believe I answered you at least partially.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u120	Thank you, Minister, for the precise respect of time, and Mr Janulík has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u121	I'm just here to fill in. An important event took place recently in the House, in the presence of Members of the Czech and Slovak Republics and distinguished guests there was a conference on the Day of Jerusalem, and the Vice-President of the House and the President of the Inter-European Group of Friends of the Czech Republic - Israel, a colleague of Bartošek, recalled his demonstration before the headquarters of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva in 2019, when he concluded: "Ladies and gentlemen, be assured" - and had a mandate of at least a quarter of the House - "that the Czech Republic, a true ally of Israel, will not sit quietly and look at the country when our friends are under fire of abused international institutions." I believe we will, of course, follow closely. But after all, I would ask you more to accentuate the specific situation. You said yourself that Israel is basically the only island in that sea of the mess that reigns there, and I believe that you will really take careful account of it, just as we will carefully follow your steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u122	Thank you. The Minister still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u123	Thank you. I would perhaps add to the answer in response to your second contribution that those Czech-Israeli relations are really full of mutual contacts, and what I am striving for is that the so-called Association Council of the European Union - Israel should succeed at European Union level. It is a matter that has already been raised last summer, and it is about some personal dealings with Mr Borrell, who is now in the position that he is the one to call such a Council. So this is... The Council is a form of dialogue between the European Union and Israel, and I believe that, as a Presidency country, we will be able to raise at least the subject in some way. Otherwise, of course, in a number of other areas, and I guess I don't have to recapitulate you - the area of research, cyber security or health care, but it's not like normal health care, organ transplantation, it really means high-tech things, it's running in some way, and, of course, the Ministry is very supportive. As well as this year, there were some contacts between the Ministry. I was on the phone with the Minister, we organized the Czech-Israeli Innovation Forum, which I started together with the Minister and with the ministers of others, there were more of us. So these are more examples of what we're doing in these relationships and we're interested in doing it, so I believe we'll continue to do it successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u124	Thank you. The next person to interpel is Mr Kubíček, who will interpel the Minister of Síkela. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, Minister, I have therefore considered who I will interpel, whether you or the Minister of the Environment, or Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, but I have decided for you. This is the support of photovoltaics for municipalities, which means the installation of photovoltaic systems for the benefit of municipalities. As you know, we have over 6,000 municipalities and interest in this installation is growing. However, municipalities would like to know whether a programme and funding will be created in the same support as individuals today, say. We all know that we are preparing - and we are actually in an energy crisis, and I think that in fact the area of the three usable, which is owned by the municipalities, whether they are their own buildings, offices or established organizations, so they provide a relatively significant area for this installation. It has two advantages. One, that there is no other land in the Czech Republic, which we do not have enough, and two, that they could bail out certain types of energy supply for their established organisations, including, for example, the regional cities of their urban transport. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether it is working - and I understand that it must be work in accordance with all ministries - on such a program and in what time frame we could give the mayors an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u126	Thank you. And the Minister of Industry and Trade of Síkela has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u127	Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words to support the installation of renewable energy sources, or to support the construction of photovoltaic power stations for municipalities. First of all, let me state that, despite this, you said that, as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we have responsibility for the overall development of renewable energy sources, or the setting of conditions for development, as well as in the area of investment support, where we focus on companies and entrepreneurs, support for the development of the public sector of the RES is financed mainly through the State Environmental Fund. But let me at least give you the information I can about the overall support framework, and I will try to touch the ammunition as well. We are trying to support the development of the RES in several ways, including investment subsidies, operating subsidies and others, and we call it soft measures, including, for example, simplifying authorisation processes, but also facilitating integration into the electricity system. As far as investment subsidies are concerned, the Modernisation Fund, which is already mentioned by the Ministry of the Environment, plays the main role and is ministered by the Environment Fund. With regard to the development of the OZ, the Modernisation Fund has already launched the first challenges in the RES+ programme with a allocation of CZK 4 billion. Based on preliminary results, a total of 500 megawatt photovoltaic sources should be implemented on the basis of these first calls. [[17,00 hours]] In March 2022, our Ministry launched a call to support photovoltaic sources and accumulations without accumulation for entrepreneurs from the National Recovery Plan, which was increased to 5 billion for great interest, which corresponds to the overall allocation of this component within the International Recovery Plan. This support should lead to the development of another 270 megawatt, depending on prices. It is also expected to be possible to purchase accumulation. The development of RES specifically for entrepreneurs is further envisaged within the Operational Programme Technology and Applications for Competitiveness, the so-called OPTIK. Support for the development of the CZECH for the household sector and the public sector is primarily responsible for the mentioned Ministry of Environment, or State Fund for the Environment, and the support of the CZECH sector in the household sector is carried out mainly through the New Green Savings programme. According to my information to support the public sector and the household sector, at least 5 billion Czech crowns will also be allocated. As far as operating aid is concerned, Amendment No No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Sources, which gives a framework to support RES and other supported sources. This framework provides for an auction system for the allocation of operating aid for larger resources over 1 megawatt with certain exceptions, in particular on the basis of the so-called green bonus, which is a market development support instrument. We are currently finalizing the implementing legislation for this law and at the same time communicating with the European Commission in order to notify these support schemes. In terms of simplifying the authorisation processes, we have transposed in this respect the requirements of the Renewable Energy Directive, in particular Articles 15 to 17 of this Directive, by regulating energy legislation, but also other legislation, in particular the Construction Act. We are now also focusing on simplifying the authorisation processes within the framework of the SMED project, which follows up on the European Union project, so-called less simplified. And already we have managed to identify some barriers that we will try to gradually remove. The amendment of the authorisation processes for the OZ is currently being addressed in several regulations which are in the legislative process or which will be introduced into the legislative process in the near future. This is an amendment to Act No. 283/2021 Sb., where comments are currently being dealt with as part of a departmental commentary procedure, where MP applied a wide range of proposals and comments to simplify authorisation processes. I'm out of time, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u128	I left a few more seconds for you to finish. Mr. Kubíček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u129	Thank you. However, Minister, I would still like to know, because they are directly asking about the specific support that is similar to those of the natural persons, which means I'm going to order for a million power plant, I'm going to get 50, 40 percent back from it, and the municipalities are going to respond to that today because they are also getting into trouble with how their fixed electricity costs are growing. So if you answer this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u130	Thank you. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u131	Similar aids are and will be published and I mentioned that the amount allocated will also be at least 5 billion Czech crowns. So, as we have put out support for entrepreneurs, similar support will be published or already published for the public sector and households. [[Mr Kubíček asks from a point of methodical help.]] Methodical assistance is primarily in the Ministry of Environment's strategy, but of course, because we are responsible for the implementation of these things, we work very closely together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u132	I'd like you to say it later. Thank you. Another interviewer is Mr Kolovratník, who will interpel the Vice-President of the Government of Bartoš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u133	Thank you for the floor. Minister, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, members of the government, good afternoon. Minister, I'd like to talk to you about the building bill. I'm not going to recap in those two minutes. You're the one who pushed through the drafts here in the House. I have information, perhaps even from today, that in the Senate, but it could be assumed, was settled positively. But we still don't know the timetable, what your idea of the time, what the next steps will be. I'm going to try to explain why I care, why I'm asking, and I'm going to illustrate this in one example. This is an example of transport investors such as the Railway Administration or the Road and Motorway Directorate, so I'm talking about the so-called reserved constructions of Liners. It is clear from your side and it is said that they will be authorised by the special building office with integrated powers, but now one particular example. In this proposal, you are changing Section 158, which so far our original version has very much released the detail of the documentation, limiting it. It was only meant to cover the effects of the intent on the outside, you're releasing this. But the designers, or the investors, Railway Administration, ŘSD, design companies, are already competing for next year and they don't know what the details of the documentation will be. I'll give you a series of three, see if I can make it, four questions, and I'll beg for quick answers, clear, brief. First of all, when are you going to present that substantive amendment, what will be the timetable, and when do you expect it to be approved? And please don't point that answer to our opposition that we're blocking it. You're a politician, you know, when we come to an agreement, we certainly won't want to, and we won't have to spend the nights and constantly, constantly blocking, so we tried to make the deal. So when's the novel in question, when's it gonna be done? And when are you going to tell investors exactly how to design, what will these changes just look like so they can do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u134	Thank you. I also left a few more seconds so you could finish it. And the Minister, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u135	Hello. Thank you for your question. The timetable, as captured in the Government's legislative plan, is fairly transparent. I even promised on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, but also to other partners, whether it be SMO Czech Republic, Union of Cities and Municipalities, that I will even - and it will be done on Friday and in graphic processing - show the whole complex of the legislation including follow-up digitization, including funding, as it fits. You asked specifically about the proposal. The bill has now passed the Senate, we're waiting for 22. 6. I think it will then be written down. And the indicative schedule is to be submitted to the government by 30. 6, then runs the Legislative Council of the Government and I count, approved by the Government could be September, October - submission to the House, Senate - May, June 2023 signature, effectiveness of law 1. 7. 2023. I can't respond to that incriminating paragraph, I'm not sure in this detail here, I'm very happy to answer it, or I can, if we can do it in time, invite colleagues who will tell me. But I think that the way we settle the comments and what comments have been accepted from our side and which will still be settled - and that process ends tomorrow Friday, where it will be a resumé - it should practically fix it. If the paragraphs are without comment and we do not expect any major amendments from a platform that is not a coalition platform, then in those matters that are now problem-free, without comment, I assume they are versions of the final ones. So even given the bill of limitations, the law should apply from 1. 7. 2023. However, it does not, for example, brake the digitization processes and others in any way, because it defines only the bowels of the functional systems, but in the finals the process is given by law and others. So I like you and the committee very much - I have it in the tables so far, in one large table, where all the follow-up activities, whether digitalization, as well as financial, so the creation of the specialized building office of the appeal for those line constructions - so each process there has a clear schedule and are visible the individual relationships between them. It's ambitious, but we can handle it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u136	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u137	Yes, there is interest, thank you. Of course I won't test you from one paragraph, I have another section 16 para. 1 and 2, where you completely unsystematically give new responsibility to the regions and municipalities to control the construction process, while this is what the construction office is supposed to do, but I don't want to test you out of it, I understand that you can't be completely detailed. And let's make a fair deal, and I'll prepare these things for you with a written interview so you can process them with the apparatus. But please ask one more additional question, if you have processed - if so, so if you can pass it on, send it - analysis, RIA, simply an analysis that clearly shows and demonstrates on some table or comparison, how much will the building proceedings against us approved version of Act No. 283/2021? What's gonna make these processes easier? Do you have any material that can clearly describe this? And if so, I beg you to deliver it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u138	Thank you. Mr. Secretary yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u139	I'll respond. This law, as we have presented it, including, for example, the cooperating Ministry of the Environment - once again thank you for the uniform environmental position - is part of the RIA. In the loss of these operations, it reduces the intensity of the operations to 60 percent. I have to say, and we've never been in dispute that we've gone that way, and we've also supported that bill, that's one building procedure, at the end of one stamp, one appeal, so the time limits that are integrated in this process are given, including appeals, so there's a reduction in operations. There's an enforceable deadline. It's not a two-step construction process, it's just one process. And even in the attached RIA, which is on the bill, we did it in parallel, as we created the individual sections that we were changing, we also used the part that we considered valid from the RIA, which was for the original bill, so we can show you and prove the expected savings of time and financial. A lot of it's caught in that RIA. If there are any other calculations beyond that, we can talk about that if there's anything else to count.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u140	Thank you. Another interviewer is Mr Babiš, who will intersect the absent Minister Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u141	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs how the government has decided after long months of analysis to increase the mobility allowance for disabled citizens. As we all see at petrol stations, the price of petrol and diesel is skyrocketing, which only confirms that the government's so highly praised reduction in excise duty has not worked at all. This, of course, is bothering everyone in our country, but it is an extreme threat to people with disabilities. Now the mobility allowance is CZK 550 a month, that's a quarter of the tank, Minister. I would like to point out that people with a ZTP card or even ZTP/P, i.e. those who are entitled to this allowance, cannot do without a car. We are talking about 261,000 people with a ZTP card and almost 100,000 people with a ZTP/P card whose fates are completely indifferent to you, unfortunately. Your advice, let it ride less, is completely inappropriate in their case, because they simply cannot transport themselves other than by car. They need to bring a child with disabilities to school or a staff member, but it is no exception that a special school is also a few dozen kilometers away from home. So they need to go to the doctor, to the needed rehabilitation, or simply to buy something to eat. At the same time, the cost of energy and food is skyrocketing for these families, where a number of disabled children also have to follow a special diet. Mr. Křeček, Mr. Fiala's economic advisor, advises people to reduce portions to themselves and their children, so hopefully no one is serious anymore. It sounded like CNN Prima. Eat smaller portions, children! What is a mother supposed to do when she drives her disabled child to school every day and has to bring him back in the afternoon? Is he supposed to stop driving him to school? So we're gonna have kids here that can't be educated. How much longer will you think about increasing your mobility allowance? I would like to point out that this is a simple and practically instantly applicable measure. It is not necessary to invent complex new processes as for a 500-thousand-dollar contribution for children. It's the end of June and we've been talking about increasing the mobility allowance since February, half a year, and so far you haven't done anything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u142	Thank you. Since the Minister is not present, we will move on to another interview, and this is Mr Růžička, who will interpelise Minister Jana Černochová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u143	Thank you. Dear Minister, the service bodies are obliged to ensure equal access and equal treatment of all job seekers in the service and with all soldiers when establishing the conditions in the service, in particular as regards training and the achievement of the service procedure. I'd like to ask you how this is being done at the Department of Defense. The process of choosing a new Chief of Military Police is scandalous, illegal and discriminatory. It is a flagrant violation of the career order in the Ministry of Defence department and not declaring a selection procedure can be considered a restriction on the rights of potential candidates not only from members of the Military Police but also from members of the Army of the Czech Republic. The result is the submission of an inappropriate candidate. What experience does Colonel Foltýn have in police activities? I'll answer it: none at all. He's not a military police officer at all, and he has to take a basic course. Military Police is a support service for combat forces. He's not gonna use his specialty here - the deployment of troops in combat - much. In previous practice according to the attached CV, which we received from the Ministry of Defence, he will definitely miss the experience of the management work. He's never driven anyone, he's never commanded anyone. He didn't command the squad, the platoon, he wasn't even the department chief. He's always served only as a senior officer-specialist. How can he manage a corps of 1,400 people, four headquarters, six police expertise, with an annual budget of nearly CZK 2 billion? He was promoted to the rank of colonel only in April, in the position of senior officer. What did he earn from being so special and skipping all the corresponding officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u144	Thank you, and please the Secretary of Defense, Černochová. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u145	Thank you. I am sorry that my colleague Růžička has served this country in the Army of the Czech Republic for quite a long time and does not know that these positions are not really subject to a tender procedure. There is a circle of people who either have the appropriate rank or have the appropriate education, they may have the appropriate courses, and this is a criterion for selection according to the Service Act, whether the Chief of Military Police or the Chief of Staff. I would like to remind you - and maybe he can ask or maybe he could ask a colleague, Růžička, Mr. former Secretary of Defense Stropnický, with whom he now spent a week working in Israel - if he had appointed a Lieutenant Colonel of the Kříž after eight years of service with the Military Police, if he had written a tender for him. I, my colleague, will answer you myself. I didn't. And he was a lieutenant colonel and served with the Military Police for only eight years, unlike Colonel Foltýn, who served in the Army of the Czech Republic for over twenty years. Colonel Foltýn is an education lawyer, so he has 100% priority over other potential candidates from the Military Police, who do not even meet what Colonel Foltýn fulfils. For example, the Deputy Chief of Military Police does not speak the language. The Chief of Staff of the Headquarters does not meet the language or course of the General Staff. Chief of Military Police in Tábor does not meet the language or course of the General Staff. The Security Service Commander shall not comply with the language. This is the result of eight years of defense ministers' work for YES, that most members of the Military Police do not have career courses, the other half - the one who has career courses - again has no language for a change! The way they are going about it is that the military police's atmosphere has resulted in the military police leadership fearing that someone is listening to them - and now I'm using public resources to make no mistake here, that I'm publishing something here that I might know from some files - the military police's leadership illegally acquired a wiretap detector and this wiretap detector tested to make sure they're clean at the hostel! That's ridiculous! And of these people, my colleague Růžička, shall I choose the new Chief of Military Police? [[17.20 hours]] I think that when there will be a man who is from the Army of the Czech Republic with more than 20 years of experience, with experience from both combat operations and criminal proceedings, that it will be for the benefit of the Military Police, who is really looking forward to it, ordinary police officers look forward to the fact that there will finally be some change, that it will not be any people who have been there from protection, like the colonel, or Lieutenant Colonel Kříž, today a general, for Minister Stropnický. Mr Otakar Foltýn, unlike all these positions, or even one I have appointed, Lieutenant Colonel Kříž, meets the requirements laid down by Law 221 and nothing prevents him from becoming Chief of Military Police. And I guarantee you, and, yes, it's behind me, it's my decision that Colonel Otakar Foltýn will be a good Chief of Military Police, who will move the police forward so that the Military Police have adequate equipment that he still doesn't have, by the way. Ask the former Secretary of Defense, Metnar, what the Military Police are dating, what kind of technology his protectors were dating. This is all the result of neglected work in this choir by the ANO Defense Ministers who have been here at the Department of Defense for the last eight years. And I'm fixing this place up after you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u146	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and please ask the honourable Member if there is any further interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u147	I'm sure he's interested. Well, Madam Secretary, great, but you intersected me! That's great! You didn't answer anything. You intersected me. I wish you luck. I'm so sorry about the people in the Military Police you said, because there are great people there, great military police. It's your decision, you chose a non-military police officer who's gonna have to learn everything. And of course, everything else will follow you. Well, is Colonel Foltýn currently a military police officer, or isn't he? He's got to get to class, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u148	Thank you and please respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u149	Mr. Chief of Military Police Otakar Foltýn already has a naming decree and from 1. 7. - I believe we'll all meet 30. 6. on Vítkov - from about 1. 7. he will be Chief of Military Police. I mean, he'll be a military police officer, of course. As for the fact that he is not a military police officer - do you mean to tell me, colleague Růžička, that when Mr. former Secretary of Defense chose Metnar, or Stropnický, when he chose Mr. Bečvář's former Chief of Staff, who, by coincidence, was a military police officer, it was a mistake? The Military Police and the Army of the Czech Republic are very close to each other. These people, of course, also in those positions in some way within the framework of the Service Act, so they go from one body to the other body. I can even mention that here, and I am so glad to have Lieutenant General Beroun there, but do you know how Lieutenant General Beroun got into Military Intelligence today for Secretary Stropnický? He came in from private. He wasn't even a soldier, and he was a cop long ago in some past. Yet we have not criticized this procedure, General Beroun has always had our support, doing his job well. And I firmly believe that Colonel Otakar Foltýn, who will become 1. 7th Chief of Military Police. And I firmly believe that this will indeed also mean calming down with the Military Police, which is now being divided into several groups.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u150	Thank you. Another person interested in interpelling is Mrs Andrea Babišová, to the absent Minister Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to intersect Minister Jurečka on the issue of payment of widow's pensions. This interpelation is at the instigation of the citizens of the Czech Republic. As has been found by me and in the Moravian-Silesian Region, but also in the South Bohemian Region, the payment of widow's pensions is very difficult. At a time when we have an economic and energy crisis here, when these people have lost their partner, who has been involved with them in the running of the household, these people remain alone after the deaths of these partners and, of course, all payment is only for them. Therefore, I am very sorry that, even after a proper period of 90 days, there remains a huge number of pending applications for widow's pensions, and I must say that these are in the order of hundreds of these applications. These people have turned to me to try to find a reason for how and why this is happening and why they are waiting almost a year for a widow's pension to be paid. I was told at the offices of South Bohemia or North Moravian Region that all the documentation was well processed from them, it was sent to the headquarters in Prague and here it is. I would just like to ask the Minister that, of course, important matters are being dealt with at the moment, but that Czech citizens should not be forgotten and that it would be necessary to ensure that people receive this widow's pension on time and that they are not thrown into some kind of existential crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u152	Thank you. In view of the absence of the Minister, we are going to another interpelation and the interviewer is Mr Richard Brabec, who will interpel Mrs Hubáčková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u153	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, thank you for coming to the interview. It's a nice habit today. Keep it. I've also tried to keep the habit of coming here, even if we stayed here among the survivors, so it's always more rare. I think it's pretty clear what I'd like to ask from the title of my interpelration. The Ministry of Environment, after criticism of basically the entire region or group of dozens of mayors from Křivoklátsko, postponed the opening of the process of announcing the National Park Křivoklátsko. It was supposed to happen on June 9th, but since you've been there several times, you've spoken to the mayors and the mayors, and the resistance has been quite considerable, so I consider it a reasonable step - because I say frankly that I thought it was a very hasty move originally - to postpone the process to September. However, there remains a concern of a certain part of the mayors that, given the deadline for the municipal elections at the end of September and the deadline for the setting-up councils, this deadline may be relatively short for the new municipalities to have a thorough discussion of the comments on this intention when they are established. I would like to ask the Minister if you guarantee that the Ministry of the Environment will really give the municipalities sufficient space to not be rushed again? I don't think any one or two months are a part of this. After all, the plan will take years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u154	Thank you, and Minister Hubáčková has the floor. Before you reach the table, I apologize to Minister Lipavský from 17.15 to the end of the day for working reasons, and to President Pekarová Adamová from 18.20 to the end of the day for working reasons. And now you have the floor, and then I'll finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u155	Thank you. Thank you for asking me about the Křivoklátsko National Park announcement process. I will return a bit to history, because the protected landscape area of Křivoklátsko has been operating for a long time, mapping the territory by scientists and the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency has been going on for a long time, and actually the idea that part of the territory is to be a national park, which means the highest priority of protection, was established in 2009. And I, when I joined and took office at the Ministry of the Environment, actually found out that negotiations with cities, with citizens, and both the workers of the Agency for the Conservation of Nature and Landscape, and the Central Bohemia Region had been going on the whole time. The Central Bohemia Region has even adopted its resolution to support the creation of a national park and has already incorporated it into its strategic documents. Although the negotiation process was so far away, I was even assured that the decree, or bill, had already been prepared, but eventually it was not discussed, despite all the negotiations led by the Central Bohemia Region, which led the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency, which is our organization, I decided to meet the mayors and find out their position, and therefore I visited them. For one thing, I accepted them at the Ministry, and I went to see them, even twice, and then I went to see them myself in the field. I don't know where there was a turning point, when suddenly there were great concerns about the national park's announcement and the limitations of its development and doubts. I definitely had to rule out the fact that no one was dealing with them. It was also published several times that they didn't have enough information that they hadn't been contacted. I can assure everyone they've been contacted, they've had information. The question is whether we understood each other well - we who tried to pass on the information, and they who accepted it - and therefore, when the information exchange processes were going on and the process was not yet legal, I wanted to use it to communicate and to find out what was not well explained. Finally, the last meeting took place before the announced date 9. 6. when before this date I had a meeting in the Central Bohemia Region, I also had a meeting with the municipalities and I considered very carefully which date for the start of the process is most appropriate. It is very difficult, if I know the length of the process, if I know how much we need to establish, manage the protected landscape area there, but the national park will still be bigger than what we need, so we have to subtract to defend it all, in our parliamentary term to secure, secure and leave those costs or not to let the incoming ones, so it seemed to me that it must be this year. I realized that the fear that it might be abused in the election campaign for the detriment of national parks exists, so I decided - September, announced September - it seemed mandatory to me that it was an obligation to inform citizens further, and that will be future representatives. We want to use that time so that de facto and existing and future representatives can express themselves. The process will go on, there will be 90 days to express, and yet in these 90 days, the comments will be even, settled, worked out, maybe changed the proposal, so I think it's our duty to use that time again for more information, and I hope that September is the time when we will still be able to meet the other legal processes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u156	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u157	It's more of an appeal than a question, but I think the secretary and I have an understanding about this. I have, of course, been through the Šumava experience, for which I am extremely fond of one side, but on the other hand, I know how shaky it is when I use this nice Czech word, in other words, in this case probably dangerous not to have most of the region on my side. This is simply about explaining, about dozens of negotiations, because once the mine is inserted literally into the foundation of the national park, of course, those people will never take it as their own, and it will always be that someone from Prague has come to order us, and that is actually very dangerous for the creation of the national park. That means, I would certainly appeal to the fact that these negotiations must continue, sometimes they will certainly be unpleasant and certainly will not be able to convince all the municipalities, and not all the citizens at all, but still give them the time to actually discuss it, so the rush will turn against the Ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u158	Yes, Madam Secretary is still interested in responding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u159	I will only react very briefly. I am very well aware of this, and I am going into the lion's pit - and not only here, at the Křivoklátsko National Park, but there are other cases where I try to be directly personally, just so that there is no explosive problem, or I know about it directly, I can prepare and explain it, and here it is about communicating with people, because I also have the reactions of young people who say, "Stay out, explain, we want to protect nature." We're not gonna convince everyone, I'm aware of it, but we're gonna work to make it a big majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u160	Thank you. Another person interested in interpelling is Mr Lubomír Wenzl, who will interpel the Vice-President of Válek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u161	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview, but more or less the question of whether the Ministry of Health is considering supporting hospitals of the so-called second type, meaning district hospitals, which are very important in the health system, with a year-on-year end in our medical faculties of about 1,800 doctors, of which about a third are studying the module in English, that is, they are mainly foreigners, but we still have about 1,300 new doctors and doctors who are entering and starting a career, their professional career as a doctor or doctor. Hospitals like the district hospital are struggling with a lack of staff and the entire population is getting older, and the medical public is getting older. We need the so-called young blood, and even if hospitals do their best, they still fail to more or less fill the numbers and are able to accept more doctors than they can get. I know from my neighborhood, and they remember it from 50 or 45+ roughly, that the best thing for their next career was to start in the so-called district hospital where they had to meet with the operatives more or less every day, meaning - I have to decide in some way, I have an older, experienced colleague over me, of course. These hospitals of the second type have accredited workplaces, i.e. preparation for obtaining a tribe, for obtaining a certificate, they are able to provide, and so I want to ask whether the Ministry is considering in any way supporting any subsidies or any other form from lecturers at medical faculties: Dear students, go after graduation, go to those district hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u162	Thank you. And please the Minister of Health for Response. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I will send you a written reply, by your means, Mr. Ambassador, and I will now rather verbally tell you what is not in it. That means, thank you for the interpellation, which I'm sure is well intended. But we have a decentralised system of graduate education. That's something most countries don't have. It's just that the Czech Republic has decided this way, and any hospital has de facto accreditation. She's not a first-type hospital. She's not a second-type hospital. That was for Bolshevik, it hasn't been since, but a lot of people still live in it. Plus, there's private hospitals and so on. [[17.40 hours]] This means we have a democracy, so a graduate of the medical faculty can choose virtually any hospital in the Czech Republic that has accreditation. The accreditation that the hospital has is posted on the Ministry of Health's website. He's getting into that hospital, and that's where he's getting his education. There is almost no hospital that does not have accreditation in some fields. And it's quite up to the students to see if they get in or don't get in. It is up to the founder, for example, if he offers these students, and some captains do it, some regions do it, maybe since the first year of the scholarship local place and offers them to return to their region where they come from. He is, of course, on the ability of the director of individual hospitals - some are capable, some are incapable of doing well with personnel policy, because it often happens that he doesn't think that doctors are getting old, and he only gets doctors when one leaves instead of having some kind of reserve. But in principle, the Ministry can't help with this in any way. If the student doesn't want to get in, some hospital isn't attractive to him, so it's hard to get the student's democratic system to get in. What the Ministry can do is support private doctors, practices and children's doctors, because we lack them. We have a shortage of them in the field, and therefore the whole support of the financial, those residential sites, we will be heading this year and next year to 100% precisely these areas to increase the number of practitioners to dramatically increase their availability in the shortest possible horizon as well as pediatricians. The problem is that one of the largest hospital facilities in Europe is the highest in the world, not only in Europe. We also have a huge number of beds, and therefore we have a huge consumption of doctors. We don't have enough doctors for the population, but because we have a lot of hospitals, they need doctors in them. Remember our common South Moravian region, which has a district hospital in each of its former districts - nowadays - and even two district hospitals in two counties. And of course, every county hospital wants to compare itself to another similar hospital, a big hospital, because district hospitals aren't small, they're good quality. Znojem hospital, Vyškov hospital, Břeclav hospital, but also Kyjovská, Hodonínská - these are all big hospitals, I don't want to forget about Blansko and Boskovice, and this is how I could go around the county. And of course, a certain solution is the creation of stockholders or holding companies, where the founder, in this case the county, connects the hospitals into one whole, then, of course, the accreditation is simply obtained and the offer for students is also larger and can move between the hospitals. The holding can certainly create some strategy that it can say, now I'll take the example of Kyjov - Hodonin, those hospitals are near each other. The Kyjov hospital will, say, be much more focused on gynecology, on the contrary Hodonínská for example on pediatrics, Blansko, Boskovice. And then, of course, the competition is still, but doctors choose a hospital that specializes in a specific area. This means the technical solution that many countries will choose, typically Austria next to us, Israel, which we have been talking about here, is that also the postgraduate education takes place in so-called central hospitals, which, however, after they have tested, left and gone to the very district hospitals. That's not what happened with us. And you de facto graduate can accept a vacancy on the table, although the tables are not today, but the place where you actually want to accept a finished doctor is not on the market, so you accept a graduate not because you want to educate him, also when we accept a student for college, but because with him you need to fill the missing place in the hospital. It is a problem that is, of course, a long-term problem. It is a problem which means that the founder must have a really prudent, long-term personnel policy. I guess it's hard to say anything else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u164	Thank you, Minister. Do I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u165	Thank you for your reply to the Minister. I'll follow up on what he said. There I really welcome the ministry's activity to focus on primary care. There really we all feel that there is a big problem at the moment, because they are connected containers. He's not a physician, he's not a pediatrician, the patient's coming to the hospital. Overload of LSPP, urgent income and so on. These are things where in the first place, a doctor in primary care could actually treat the patient. So thank you for your activity to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u166	Thank you. The Minister will still respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u167	If I may, Mr President. [[President: Yes, yes, of course.]] Thank you, thank you for that. Supporting the terrain, that is, the practical doctors for children and adolescents and general practitioners, is important because they don't actually have the tables and de facto pass on the preparation is paid in this case by their trainer, which also means practice. For this reason, I would like us to identify some kind of training center, especially for practical doctors for children and adolescents. I happened to be e-mailing Professor Štěrba about it now and we discussed how many students who work with him from the Brno Medical School in paediatrics wanted to go to pediatrics and did not have any vacancies, which I consider to be a big mistake last year, which is projected today because accreditation sites were not focused on these areas. I'm the one who ordered me to get in, that as soon as there's a residential area left, he'll have to go into these fields. But there's one more thing I'd like to say. Well, even big hospitals have such a problem, because top medicine is done in all types of hospitals. It's more about team composition and other things, not if it's a big hospital or a small hospital. And few realize that the Faculty Hospital Motol is the number of beds and number of employees almost comparable to Allgemeines Krankenhaus in Vienna. But in Vienna there is one Allgemeines Krankenhaus, directly managed faculty hospital paid from the state budget, but in Prague we have the Faculty Hospital Motol, Homolka, we have here VFN, Thomayerka, Bulovka and I can continue. And now the question is whether the Czech population is so much sicker than the Austrian population, or whether it is necessary to strengthen the primary care. And I think we agree here, and for that, thank you, I think we need to strengthen the primary care and start thinking about rational use of the care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u168	Thank you for keeping the time limit accurate. Another person interested in interpelling is Mr Rais, who will interpel Mr Gazdík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u169	Thank you. Dear absent minister, at its Wednesday evening meeting, the Bureau of STAN proposed to suspend Mr Hlubuček's membership in your movement and there were a number of activities that we discussed in quite detail in the morning, but you were also mentioned in the media. And basically it didn't go - and I don't know exactly the situation - about an hour ago I pulled out an article "We only know each other socially, Gazdík claimed the accused Redl. According to the police, they set up meetings and dealt with STAN." And that's how you could bring up the problems. Of course, I personally considered STAN a relatively transparent party in the government, and I expected similar scandals from other political parties, but now I would focus more or less on you because the media just rubbed off on you and I don't know the outcome. So my question is whether you can tell us whether the scandal in the Prague City Transport Company has anything to do with your work as Minister of Education, because it is also about the Ministry of Education, and whether it is related to your person as a prominent representative of STAN? Since the Minister may not be here on purpose, I will not continue. Thank you for your attention and I suppose I'll get an answer in writing here for these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since the Minister is not here, we can move on to another interview, and this is Mr Radek Koten, who will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade of Síkel. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u171	Hello, thank you. Mr President, I would have stopped by one such problem, but it is the ownership or ownership of the state in ČEZ. The majority shareholder of ČEZ is the Czech state here. Of course, in the Supervisory Board the number of people representing the State also corresponds to this. And here I have written down roughly the share of the other owners of ČEZ: 10 percent of these are small shareholders and another 20 percent of the total package of 30% are legal entities. I read here, and it was the pages that are on the Watchdog, so it's basically the property structure of ČEZ. And of course my question is: why does the state, if it has 70 percent in this company, why is it unable to influence the sale of electricity right here in the Czech Republic, have to sell through the stock exchanges, via the Leipzig Stock Exchange, and why is it unable to agree or by some vote not to modify the shares of the other shareholders? I don't mean shares, but the fact that dividends may not be paid for some time or that they will be smaller and so on, because it would of course benefit Czech consumers very much. So now the state that has a stake in ČEZ has abnormal profits, including those small shareholders, and it is unable and does not want to deprivatize the part by buying out the part, so that it is a whole-, semi- or national company, and so that it is able to guarantee the citizens of this republic a reasonable price of energy, not through the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u172	Thank you. And the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela has the floor at the moment. In the meantime, before he comes to the counter, I apologise to Mr Králíček from 18:00 until the end of the day for reasons of work and also to Prime Minister Fiala, from 18:30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u173	Mr President, Mr Koten, honourable Members, I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Finance is the holder and executor of shareholder rights in ČEZ in view of the question. This means that I am not quite sure if the question should be directed at me, but I will try to answer you as a member of the government and as a person who came into the position of Minister of Industry and Trade from the management of an international company listed on the stock exchange, which also had a shareholder structure such that there are larger shareholders, smaller shareholders and in which there were shareholder and certain structures that could have been linked to the investment activities of some states. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the laws on equity companies, which clearly state what rights the majority shareholders have, what rights the minority shareholders have, and I would like to point out in this context that one of those rights is, for example, the convening of general meetings, extraordinary general meetings, the approval of accounts, the decision on the distribution of profits. These are things that happen within some time limits that are laid down by law. At the same time, shareholders' rights include, for example, the right to appoint statutory bodies, such as the Supervisory Board, and through the Supervisory Board, the Board of Directors and the management of the company. However, shareholders' rights do not include interference in direct commercial activities. And here I would really like to point out that you should read well what the rights and obligations of the supervisory board members or the management of stock companies are, but there certainly does not include the possibility of deciding on some specific business matters. But I firmly believe that the Czech state through the Ministry of Finance, and I assure you that I will also express myself in this way to the government, will exercise its shareholder rights with regard to the interests of this country and the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u174	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u175	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I was more interested in what possibilities the government has in this case in order to influence trading on the Czech energy exchange or energy produced in the Czech Republic, because we all know that energy is produced here at a much lower price than it is then finally sold to final consumers. And that's what's at the heart of the problem. Because if we produce energy here for some 20, 25 pence and then we sell it to final consumers for 10 crowns, it is nice that the ČEZ Group has absolutely perfect economic results, in this year it has even achieved a huge profit in the first quarter and it will probably continue, so I was more interested in how the state will respond here to this trend and how it will be able to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u176	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in speaking again. In the meantime, I will also read Mr Feranc's apology from 18:00 to 23:45 on account of illness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u177	I don't know if... Once again, Mr President, Mr Member, Members, as I have already said, there are some legal deadlines, general meetings and at these general meetings, the majority shareholder may decide, for example, on the amount and vote on the proposal to pay dividends or on the composition of the Supervisory Board, or through the Supervisory Board, on the composition of the management of the company, possibly on strategies, concepts, plans for further development of the company and so on. But, of course, whatever the government is doing in this matter, it has to do so that any information that is price-setting simply doesn't escape any other way that the law allows. And that's probably all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u178	Thank you. Since I've been notified from the organizational department that we can start the last interpellation at 17.55 hours, we have 17.57 hours, unfortunately no more interpellation. In the meantime, I will read the final passes, namely Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, from 6 p.m. to 21 p.m. for work reasons, Mr Bělobrádek from 18.15 p.m. to the end of the day for work reasons, then Mrs Ožanová from 17.45 p.m. to the end of the day for family reasons and Vice-President Skopeček from 16.30 p.m. to the end of the working day for working reasons. So we're missing the last two minutes, so I'm declaring a two-minute break, respectively, until 6:00 p.m., and then we'll start the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-019-027.u179	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another point, and this is
