ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u1	6. The Government's Bill repealing Law No 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation /German press 177/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Mr Kupka will state the bill. Please, Minister, take the floor, and I will ask you all to remain calm or to transfer your discussions outside the O.R. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, wait until my colleagues are quiet. Once again, I will ask those who do not want to be part of the discussion about the EET to leave the O.R. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly imagine a draft law repealing Law No 1 as part of the second reading. 112/2016 Sb., on the record of sales. We want to put an end to the era when every entrepreneur and businessman was viewed as a priori dishonest. On the contrary, we want the Czech Republic to help all those who do business towards all those who are trying to carry out their craft honestly, whether they are businessmen or entrepreneurs, so that the state can help them and not burden them with unnecessary bureaucracy. [[19.00 hours]] In this regard, we want the state to give a clear message to all those who are active citizens who carry out their abilities and activities in this regard, that it is not to help them to pursue them and force them into bureaucracy that is redundant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u3	I'm gonna interrupt you because the noise in the O.R. hasn't stopped, even though there's five and a half of us. So I'm going to ask all of you who have stayed here, if possible to quiet down, or transfer your discussions outside the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u4	Unfortunately, we have seen the state bullying entrepreneurs, bullying traders, and bullying those who have tried to do business honestly for years and years because of crown items. At the same time, we want to make it clear that the Czech Republic will appreciate the work of those who are creating the economy at the moment, as in the previous period. At the same time, we want to make it clear that the reintroduce of the EET would undoubtedly be a step in the completely wrong direction at the moment, it would not be justified either economically, because it is possible to record a sharp increase in the share of cash-free payments. Only in 2021, there were 60 percent of them. The estimate for 2025 is precisely an increase to an additional 80 per cent. These payments were, of course, not covered by the record of sales as a result of the Constitutional Court's decision. It is also a clear way for every trader to simplify his business in the form of cash-free payments, and of course it is an important positive step in relation to all consumers, in relation to all those who use the services of entrepreneurs. Of course, the impact of the sales record also brings significant changes in the tax system, such as the introduction of a flat-rate tax institute. At this point, in response to the covid-19 pandemic, the obligation to register sales was interrupted by the end of this year. Therefore, it is important to give a clear answer and give it to all those who do what the situation will look like after 1 January as soon as possible. Our answer is clear: we really want to create an environment that entrepreneurs will not bully, we want to create an environment that, on the contrary, will create suitable conditions for them to do business. We want to definitely cancel the EET, which, moreover, did not happen in those other stages, third and fourth. Thank you very much for your attention when briefly stating the second reading of our bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u5	Thank you. It was worse with the attention, but thank you for the opening words to the Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 177/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets take the floor, namely Mr Vojtěch Munzar, and that he informs us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any amendments that may be justified. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. Before I tell you how the negotiations took place on our budget guarantee committee, I would just like to stress what the Minister said here. It is very crucial that the entire legislative process takes place by the end of the year. In fact, a large part of the public lives in a misconception that the EET has already been definitively abolished, but it is not. In fact, electronic sales records are only postponed until the end of this year. If we had not repealed the electronic record of sales by this law, not only would the obligation for restaurants, pubs, accommodation services and retail, i.e. for sectors that people know where EET was, but also - and this is crucial - have been added to this since 1 January to the new obligation to buy EET for those other deferred waves, for example for all hairdressers, craftsmen, marketers, masseurs, veterinarians, in short for all who accept cash payments, i.e. the new circus for 300,000 tradesmen. This would be the case today under the applicable law if we did not accept this government proposal. The Committee on Budgets discussed this draft law at its 15th meeting on 31 August of this year. There was a broad discussion about this proposal, which actually copied the debate here at the plenary at first reading. However, there was no amendment to the Committee on Budgets, which is why it did not decide on any Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets adopted the following resolution: "The Budget Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's bill repealing Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended, and amending and repealing other related legislation, House press 177, has given its consent." Of course, it empowers me to introduce you to this resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u7	Thank you, Mr Member, for the report from the Committee on Budgets, and I am opening a general debate to which Mr Výborný is reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, Minister, colleagues, in agreement with President Schillerová, I just want to confirm here on the microphone that today's meeting day will end by discussing the House Press 177, amendment to the Sales Recording Act. So to make it clear here that we are really ending with this point that has now been opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u9	Thank you very much. Another priority right is signed by Vice-President Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have said quite a lot here in the first and second reading, but at least briefly allow me to recapitulate a few facts. It is the worst if politicians start to believe that his actions are guided in the right direction and that he may not perceive feedback from his surroundings. Because if we decide to objectively disturb the EET, it should be based on the fact that at least we agree with the key market players. If we ignore them, it's wrong. Who are the key market players? We have almost a million self-employed people on the Czech market, about 600,000 are those who are active. Then we have some 370 000 active legal entities, inactive other about 100,000. Why do I say that? All these companies - companies, companies and tradesmen - are represented by business associations. We can have a lot of fun, which are the most important, but I think it's fair to say that the biggest that they are, are those who have the most members, and these are the following: Association of Industry and Transport, Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders - I take those of industry, Association of Hotels and Restaurants, Association of Trade and Tourism, Chamber of Commerce and Confederation of Employers and Business Unions. So it's six of the very main ones that are related to electronic sales records. All these six associations, associations or chambers have made a clear declaration to the electronic record of sales. Not only do they support it, they don't want it to be cancelled. Why don't they want that? They don't want it because they see it as a logical tool in the 21st century, at the time of digitization. No one understands that we're jamming electronic tools. It is the same as if today, after we have introduced, Minister of Transport, an electronic road sign, so we would move again to stick to the guilt and that it will be done again in manual form. Many entrepreneurs have quite objectively started to do business in this field or in the field of hospitality precisely because electronic sales records were created. They just weren't worried about not being an equal business environment, and it's impossible not to see it. The businessmen must be telling you this safely, because that's what they're telling us. On the contrary, it was not confirmed - clearly, they are numbers - that more companies or companies would leave the market for this reason. It's very simple. When we look at the number of tradesmen, the CFI - and you certainly watch it after every quarter - so the number of self-employed persons has been growing systematically since 2014. Even despite the covid, it grew by about 23,000 entrepreneurs, self-employed people, a year. Even if we go into individual fields and look into the field of hospitality and restaurants and services associated with this, we find that the number of these traders and these entrepreneurs is not falling. It is true that there are around 8,9 percent of them every year, but beware, this ended in 2015, 2013, 2012, or at a time when there was no electronic record of sales, and it should always be said that the same number of these companies was created again. It is simply a sector where there is a great dynamic of those who are ending and who are coming to the market. I repeat: it has not been confirmed that the electronic record of sales would result in a mass collapse of companies. [[19.10 hours]] And last but not least, no one understands that, which is not a business issue here, but at least a state that the state is losing a lot of revenue. According to the employees of the Ministry of Finance who were there for us and are there for you, it is the amount of CZK 13 billion per year, notabene at a time of crisis. Thus, I do not claim that electronic sales records have met their expectations in everything as designed and prepared. From my point of view, we should have taken greater care to link it more quickly with what everyone expected, which means that it will not only be a control, reporting tool that will simplify, but also a tool that will make it easier for us to communicate with the state and the like. Yes, I agree. We can even talk about whether the remote connection platform - and someone calls it the Croatian model, someone else - is the most correct platform. I might even agree to that, and let us discuss whether it may not be possible to turn it into a more modern one, although I think it would probably be unnecessary, I would rather try to improve the current situation. I could agree with everything, but not that it will come and ideologically - and let's face it, it is ideological - will be abolished by an instrument that works in different forms today on different platforms almost throughout Europe. If we really think it's right for us to live on paper in 2022 and on pencils and that if we go out for a beer, then we're gonna do the rakes, then we're gonna add it up, then we're gonna throw it in the shoebox, we're gonna give it to our accountant, he's gonna process it, he's gonna do it, he's gonna do it, and so on, then we're gonna deny ourselves and deny the time, we're gonna deny digitalization. So instead of repairing what we may have failed perfectly to build a better and more comfortable service for businessmen and, of course, for end customers, because it was easy for them too, we cancel instead. We're going back to the pencil, the paper, and the famous hobbies. That is why we are fundamentally opposed to this, and that is why we are criticizing your move. I've said a lot about this in the past, but at least I thought it was right to say something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Your speech raised a factual remark from the rapporteur. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u12	Thank you for the floor. By your means, I will respond to Vice President Havlíček. I was interested in the sentence - I have heard a lot of arguments about the EET from the YES movement, but the claim that a lot of entrepreneurs started doing business precisely because of the EET is really not based on the truth. On the contrary, many entrepreneurs have considered the end of their business precisely because, in your government, your government has created a hostile environment towards entrepreneurs by preventively considering all entrepreneurs to be vulgar suspects. And when we look at all the checks that were linked to EET - control purchases, eleven-thousand-dollar fine for an unaccounted-for cake for 10 crowns, fines for a comprehensive receipt when the Minister replied to me in the interview that the issue of a mass receipt denies the basic principle of EET, that is to get relevant information about individual sales of the taxpayer, that was not really helping entrepreneurs, it was not helping the sector and it was not motivation for entrepreneurs to start working. On the contrary, it was creating a hostile and demotivative environment. This was confirmed, for example, by the fact that according to the Association of Czech Traditional Trade in 2017, 1 082 of the rural mixed goods stores ended in 2018, another 513. Of course we can argue, we each have a different view of the benefits and negatives of EET, but please don't use false arguments that EET motivated entrepreneurs to start a business, that's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u13	With the de facto Vice-President Havlíček and Minister Kupka will continue. Please, Vice-President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u14	Thank you. Just because we want everyone to have the same environment doesn't mean we consider someone a dirty suspect. That's not what this is about. On the contrary, the fact that everyone has the same environment proves that no one can make excuses for cheating and not cheating. And let's have some pure wine, it wasn't entirely pure, it's just a fact. It's not remorse, it's reality. And the state should take precautions to balance the environment. Yes, you said right, a whole range of entrepreneurs and not only entrepreneurs and various observers said that it could happen that entrepreneurs would start to decline, but it didn't happen. Look at the statistics. It's very simple, look at the numbers of self-employed people, look at the numbers of those who did business in the area of hospitality, and we'll even include a covid. Despite the covid, this has not been confirmed. Take a look at the opinion of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants, take a look at the opinion of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, take a look at the opinion of the Association of Trade and Tourism and finally the AČTO, which you mentioned, the Association of Czech Traditional Trade. Yes, it always leaves the market several hundred small shops, but it has been leaving since 2000 due to large hypermarkets and large players who are on the market, it has nothing to do with the electronic record of sales. And it was confirmed at restaurants and hotels. Those who finished came again new, just like it was in 2015, just like it was in 2012. It's easy to look at facts and numbers. And by this, please, Mr President, let us argue, not with feelings and ideologies. And that's what we blame you for. We're just in the 21st century, in 2022, and I can't accept that we're going to leave electronic tools and digitization just because we think that's what entrepreneurs want. They don't want it, and let's stick to the unions and associations if we're to argue truthfully. [[Vice-President: Time.]] Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Kupka will now continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u16	Just because we cancel electronic sales records doesn't mean we're giving up digital tools, doesn't mean we're giving up digital tools. I have here factually explained how another electronic tool is growing, but it has chosen the public itself, and these are cash-free payments through bank cards. This is reality, this is a modern way, which, of course, has a number of other important advantages for both consumers themselves and traders. The fact that a number of electronic tools will continue to be used, if they have been introduced, is not disputed, and, of course, it has the benefits that they manage for them. What we are clearly saying is that under the circumstances, in the current situation, the re-registration of electronic sales does not have an economic justification, let alone a political justification. We have clear evidence of those who, by creating electronic sales records, were really pushed by the state senselessly, even though they were doing honest, nonsensical fines, into pointless situations. What we bring in the situation is a modern solution, not a diversion from electronic tools, no way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u17	Mr Munzar is now in office, then Mrs Balaštíková, Mrs Schillerová and then Mr Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u18	Thank you. It is nice to talk about digitization, about the use of new technologies, but the problem with electronic sales records is that digital technologies have been used not to motivate the sector and improve the environment in the sector, but also purely as a restrictive tool that actually accompanied the fines. I don't want to name them, I've already said some of them here in my previous appearance. In short, electronization in favour of entrepreneurs does, but not as a restrictive tool to take it as a restrictive tool. That's the first thing. [[19.20 hours]] Second thing. You're still using the balancing of the business environment. It's a contradiction of itself. You can't straighten the business environment with brutal regulation. And of course, the obligation that you have put in place here affects the small ones and the big ones otherwise, because it brings, of course, financial time costs, and somewhere for a small shop with two employees, it's really more financial than it really is for a big supermarket. So what you came up with really didn't level out the business environment. I understand you're covering up some associations here. I remember when electronic sales records were being introduced, so there were representatives of the hotels and restaurants union, and they were plotting to, when they had it, it had to be introduced for the plumbers to level the business environment between the hotel and the plumber. Those really weren't the right arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u19	Thank you for keeping time. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u20	Good evening, I'd like to speak to my speaker, Mr. Secretary. Minister, you didn't use a perfectly good example of saying that the instrument is a bank credit card. I'd like to know if you've realized that it's the dishonest businessmen who are starting to reject the credit card and only require cash payments. They're the ones that put this tool in place. As for my previous speaker, Mr Munzar, through Mr President: please, if you say also about the trade with two employees, he already had the cargo, it costs him nothing. Most of the time in these stores, they have equally paid access to the Internet, so you're just gonna thwart their investments today. And it's not a burden to them, really. I've had a lot of conversations with those businessmen who were actually defending the introduction themselves. And all they wanted us to do was measure the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Schillerová is now on the verdict. I prefer Vice-President Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u22	I'll do the last one so we don't drag it out. We can argue a lot about this, but I'm saying again, why aren't we following the views of the major unions and associations? Then why do we have them? Why do we have tripartite? Why do we have all these meetings? I would take it if they opposed it, and when the six biggest people express themselves to you that they wanted it, and defend the interests of the vast majority of entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic and agree on it - although I admit that it is not entirely clear, I accept that, too, because I was in one of the associations and I know that it was not entirely dominant, but it was quite clear in the majority. If they say it's the right instrument, and the arguments I've been saying here were, more or less, the arguments that fall in those associations, then what do we have them for? Then let's not pretend that they're their representatives here, and we'll take their opinion if we get the political instrument back. That's why I say ideology prevails over the real environment. And the mistake of politicians is that they stop following the people they're here for, because we're nothing but those who are meant to serve people, to serve the business, to serve everyone else. And if someone comes up with a regular opinion, notabene, that opinion is positive for the Treasury, which is paradoxical in that sense, and we're pretending to beat it all because we have a hundred eight - you have it, you beat it, we know it safely, but please don't play hide-and-seek. With the card, Minister, it's not quite the right example. If I put myself in those electronic road signs, yes, I can buy it on my card as well as I can buy anything else on my card. But that doesn't mean that I'm going to connect the digital tool or the electronic tool to the card in the form that it's going to be centered like this, or if we just want it this way, online. But I'm saying again, let's talk about how it can be improved, I would take it all, but you normally canceled it ideologically despite the people we're doing it for. And that, from my point of view, is the failure of the state and the failure of politicians.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u23	Another point of fact made by President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u24	Thank you. Of course, I'm going to sign up with priority rights, but right now I just want to react quickly so I don't forget it, so I don't need to cool off. Well, you keep repeating arguments that are three years old. I've always listened to this place on the budget committee, and this is where we fought. For a year and a half, you kept me here an amendment to the Electronic Sales Recording Act when you were still in opposition. AČTO - I'll tell you all the fresh data. Head of ACTO, I think his name is Mr. Březina, if I'm not mistaken, was at a seminar called by Patrik Nacher, or called here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, on the topic of voluntary EET. He's here to support me on the budget committee. As a matter of fact, when we were discussing the abolition of the EET, he was at least plotting for his volunteering, so it's not. They're just completely fresh - businessmen get used to EET. They've come to his liking. On the contrary, they found that it was meaningful and found that those who are dishonest, who are a minority, did not gain a competitive advantage. Well, credit card payments - yes, card payments have increased, cash-free payments, which is good, but thanks to what, Minister? Thanks to EET, due to the fact that cashless payments - there was no obligation to register. EET just targeted cash only. This number has risen and is actually falling, I will monitor it in time, even if the EET will no longer exist, but I will monitor it, this can be requested from the Czech Banking Association. And believe me, when I meet a situation in the centre, I get it directly from my colleagues, in the centre of Prague a famous restaurant refuses credit card payment, very well known, just not cheap, credit card payment and sends a customer for cash, so I guess there's something weird. [[Time.]] I'll check in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u25	Thank you very much. Another point of fact is made by the Member, Minister Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u26	I'm really gonna try to get back to my arguments. In 2021, the significantly increased rate of cash-free payments to 60 per cent, which are more transparent, but also in terms of tax administration, which are then very easily traceable and controllable. That is why we refer to this as an instrument which naturally brings with it significant advantages for the state and is comfortable for all consumers and for all customers. The expert estimate for 2025 is another increase in the rate of cash-free payments, which is why the RIA study for our proposal also showed that if we were to count on some income from possible renewal, it would be in the order of a maximum of billions, somewhere around CZK 4 billion. But because, on the other hand, state spending on administration and the spending of entrepreneurs who would have to re-create their equipment if they haven't yet, if they've started doing business in the last two years, that means additional significant costs in a situation where the situation really changes, when we point to the actual data, not those from which the previous measures were based, the previous proposal. Why people started paying more cards was much more related to covid disease and to the significant expansion of other new types of services, whether mail order or remote sales. However, under the circumstances, we respond to the development of the economy and react hand in hand with the times, with what is changing, so we come up with a proposal which, of course, has both factual justification and political justification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u27	Thank you, and another with a point of fact is Vice-President Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u28	Thank you very briefly. Well, some arguments here actually seem very bizarre to me. Here it was outlined by the Vice-President that perhaps we want to go back to some previous century because we don't like electronization. But not having EET entrepreneurs doesn't mean they can't have their own software, their own cash register. That doesn't mean the power in those stores is gonna be shut down, it's gonna be disconnected from the Internet. There's just a question here about whether or not they're supposed to be followed by the state 24 hours online through these devices and whether or not they're supposed to prove they're not thieves. This primordial suspect, who has to automatically show that he's not stealing, is also a philosophical, a little amoral question, but doesn't mean that we're going back to the paper, that we're canceling electronic cashier business. If they want to have them, however sophisticated they can, of course, have them without EET duty. [[19.30 hours]] Mrs Balaštíková, through Mr President, spoke about drowned investments. Let's do it again. Do you really think that the costs incurred by entrepreneurs in electronic sales records are an investment? That it can be described as an investment? After all, investment is something to make a profit for entrepreneurs in the future, something to expand their production or, in some way, simply, cause it to bring him a higher return in the future than business brings him today. So if he invested the money he had to invest in the EET, for example, in improving his business, in purchasing new material - not even material, it is not an investment, but in buying new equipment, new machinery, anything, so of course it can be described as an investment, because it will make more in the future and bring higher returns. But the electronic record of sales really doesn't bring any extra profits to any businessman as such, and it doesn't bring any extra revenue, so calling EET an investment is really absurd, completely out of line. Then it was said here that everyone wanted it. I don't know if you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u29	Because then I wasn't sure if you took it as a priority right, so I let you, because I know you can extend it anyway. [[Mr. Vice-President Skopeck's reaction off the microphone.]] If it really was factual, then the time has passed. The other is Mr Patrik Nacher with a factual view. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u30	Thank you for the floor. I thought I'd be giving second reading just to have a shorter contribution and not to react factually, but at this point, I have to go to my honored colleague Skopeček, so I didn't want to, but I have to. About that dirty suspect - I have to respond to that. I mean, it's pretty obvious that whoever paid his employees officially paid his taxes, so there's no change in EET for him -- ask those entrepreneurs if you could come to the seminar I co-organized, they'd tell you. So the people in practice would tell you, you're smiling at me here, so ask the people who work in gastro-business for 20 years, ask them. You talk to them, so they'll tell you what they told us - it just wasn't a big change for them at the time. Yeah, it's a change for someone who's been around tax laws until then, he's been working black. I don't like the way we play here, we paint it pink - we know that. We know that minimum wage was paid, and the rest was paid in cash by the guy. They don't mind, of course, but the moment the EET is canceled, the problem is that the honest ones will have a problem because they'll stay that way. It is precisely that when we change the law here and try to chase the dishonest ones, often the dishonest ones will act out of principle, and you, the dishonest ones, unfortunately, are in favour of it. Well, that's the dirty suspect, so it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u31	Thank you. First of all, Mrs Balaštíková, I am sorry - in fact, and then in fact Vice-President Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u32	I dare to respond, through Mr President, to the word of Mr Skopeček's previous speaker. Please, I apologize for my expression of investment, it's a wasted expense those people had, we can look at the word investment from more perspective, so I am correcting myself to be satisfied, but we have really ruined those people's spending costs because they have already released them. So don't be mad at me, we're not treating the business sector economically. And when you said that they were actually exaggerating the business and these things, it's not exactly the investments to understand each other from an economic point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u33	So, now Vice-President Skopeček and then Mrs Schillerová in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u34	Speaking of education, we're going to use the term drowned costs, and the drowned costs in economics really mean that it's already spent the costs that have been incurred, and if the person who's spent it doesn't get any benefit, he's not supposed to add them to the calculation and he's supposed to retreat from that behavior. So, my colleague, you confirmed my argument. If there are any costs that you can't put back, and as a result it doesn't bring you any positive benefits, it's better to give up, delay. That's why it's called drowned expenses. I simply disagree with my colleague Nacher, through the President. Here the impression is created that the state before the EET was created had no tools to control the businessman's way. No one here is questioning the role of financial authorities in controlling - or other authorities in controlling entrepreneurs, including whether or not they employ any employees blackly. The point is that we really want the financial authorities to go behind this and affect the one who doesn't behave right, who creates unfair competition, but we resent the principle - and we really believe that the vast majority of entrepreneurs in our country are decent, are not cheating, and we resent the principle that most of the decent ones must be online online for the sake of a minority who cheat and prove to the state as vulgar suspects that they are not developing unfair activity. And I think that because of a minority of criminals, we simply do not have regulations and costs to punish the vast majority of decent people. And it's true not only in business, I think it's true in life in general.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u35	Thank you. With the factual President Schillerová, then Mr Nacher, I do not have another one yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u36	Well, he did not have effective instruments, Mr Vice-President, through the Vice-President. He didn't, because the state can't afford to have a thousand officials who - or I'm sorry, a million, a thousand of course have, and thanks to you, he'll have even more, thanks to your government, but he can't afford it, because he can't control everyone if he doesn't have these simple digital tools. Your best finance minister, your government, didn't care that years were being robbed in broad daylight through excessive deductions of billions from the state budget. When the YES movement, which came to the Ministry of Finance, introduced control reports, the carousel frauds were solved within three years. And of course, it took an additional tool to focus on revenue. So how do you explain to me that three years after the establishment of the EET - I draw the Ministry of Finance numbers - the admitted sales in hospitality increased by 20 percent, the accommodation by 13 percent, the retail by 8 percent and so on? Those are pretty big numbers, and I could go on, of course. So you've never heard a word from me about any of the dirty suspects, never, never used it, just wanted the majority to say so, Mr Vice-President, through the Vice-President that the minority is the dishonest ones, so that the majority of them have peace, can do their business in peace and not be afraid that someone is corrupting her prices by not doing it honestly. That was it. Simple!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u37	A further technical note is made by Mr Nacher. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u38	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, I'm gonna respond to you, I don't know, it's EET that's so cursed. We're here to convince ourselves, and we're still not going to be able to make sure clearly. I'll just remind you in the context of what was said -- you were talking about financial control -- well, it was part of it, if I remember correctly from the background materials, that the number of checks had just decreased. So if the entrepreneurs were saying anything -- they repeated it at the conference -- that was a reduction in the tax burden, that went hand in hand with it, and a reduced number of checks. So it was good to say it in the whole context. I'm sorry you didn't come to the conference, it would almost be worth it before the third reading of the conference like this - and I'm open to inviting any representative of the business community there and really say it to myself because the entrepreneurs were talking like each other, and they're people who are really 20, 25 years old in the business. It's not someone who's been invited there for two years, and we only invited him to confirm our view. But I'm not convincing you because it's really futile. I'm just wondering, since you're sitting like this now that I'm actually addressing you, how should I address you by your means when I respond to you? That's kind of a tricky thing to do, if anyone could tell me how it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u39	Call me as you see fit, I can take it. Well, that was all the actual points. Excuse me. I'm sorry. Mr Dvořák Jaroslav apologizes from 19.15 to 9 a.m., Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová Jana apologizes from 19.05 a.m. to 9 a.m. tomorrow for working reasons, Mrs Pastuchová from 19 a.m. to 9 a.m. tomorrow morning for working reasons, and Mr Sadovský from 9 a.m. to 14 a.m. today for working reasons. And we are going back to the general debate to which President Schillerová claims with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So it's my turn, I can finally say it in a complete way. Minister, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to justify the amendment that I have put into the system and then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to it. It is Amendment 1401, House Press 177. And now let me give him a more detailed explanation. Almost CZK 1,200 billion, that's the sum our current government five-wheelers want to owe us for their entire term of office. Moreover, these nearly 1,200 billion crowns are still based on hypothetical revenues, which have not yet been approved by this Chamber of Deputies, and could not logically approve them, even if the government has not yet approved them. Moreover, Minister of Finance Zdeněk Stanjura, I have to repeat it again, using marketing tricks in the form of an optical deficit reduction, because part of the imbalance is shifted to the balance of state special-purpose funds. The medium-term outlook presented does not show signs of the slightest effort to consolidate public finances. In 2023, the structural balance will increase from 2,9% of GDP in 2022 to 3,1% of GDP in 2023. A significant consolidation is not planned by government five-wheelers even in 2024, when the structural balance is to be 3% of GDP as well as in the following year when the structural balance is to be 3% of GDP. Thus, in four years of governance, he plans to owe the Czech Republic the government of Petr Fiala, and I repeat again, by nearly CZK 1,200 billion, and that does not have to be the final number according to the statements of the members of the government coalition. From this point of view, it completely loses any logic of the interference of the EET as a measure whose main aim was to settle the business environment and increase tax collection. During its operation, the EET created almost 60 billion additional revenue for the state budget, while reducing the tax burden in the Czech Republic. The electronic record of sales provided an additional annual income of up to CZK 13 billion for the state budget, only for an already established system in which the first two EET waves are included, in the case of the introduction of the third and fourth waves, according to estimates by the Ministry of Finance EET would create an additional CZK 7.7 billion, i.e. a total of CZK 21 billion each year. And the only reason for the interference is that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and, of course, other members of the government and other members of the five-wheelers do not want to complete one of the main economic projects of the government of Andrej Babiš even though it makes sense not only to the government, businesses, but also to citizens. Our intention in preparing the EET was to keep the costs on the business side as small as possible. Our movement actively tried to communicate and adapt electronic records to real market requirements and Czech citizens. From the beginning of the creation of this system, it was clear to us that public support was crucial. The e-booking of sales project was based on foreign experience, it was often remembered by Croatia, but it was also other countries, not only in the EU, which we applied to the Czech environment after a number of formal and less formal meetings and which we actively discussed with representatives of the domestic and foreign environment. After the performance of the EET, our work continued by creating educational videos, websites, printing information leaflets and distributing brochures. We also created a telephone line for helping subjects who had some specific type of problem, if they wanted to discuss it professionally, we organized trade fairs, workshops, seminars, congresses. Since November 2016, electronic sales log has worked on a voluntary basis so that all participants can try out how this system works and verify their readiness. As of December 2016, EET worked in sharp operation in the first phase. This meant an obligation to register sales for accommodation and catering services, sectors where more unaccredited revenues were assumed. This was based on an analysis of the Czech Statistical Office in particular. The gradual launch of the EET continued with retail and wholesale shops, which began as a second wave in March 2017. The third and fourth wave of the EET was postponed by the Constitutional Court until May 2020, but at the end of 2017, the Constitutional Court also gave us the truth that electronic record of sales pursues a legitimate objective and thus is an effective tax collection and settlement of the business environment. He literally stated that it was a legitimate instrument. Unfortunately, in the wake of the health crisis, as has already been mentioned here, we had to postpone - and I considered it right at the time - I went along with the proposal and put it on the ground of the then Chamber of Deputies - the third and fourth waves. The third and fourth wave was intended to cover some craftsmen, hairdressers, beauty salons, nail studies, masseurs, photographers, repairers, hourly husbands, stallers on markets, car parks and other engaged natural and legal persons. I want to make a clear statement here, and I stand by the fact that the EET was a successful project. STEM's independent research looked into the position of the majority of the public towards the EET. The two-thirds majority of the company considered the introduction of EET as a positive measure and the distribution of this view was stable over time. A positive view of the EET has been maintained in the public despite the ongoing active and completely illogical campaign of the current government five-calice directed against the EET. The STEM survey also revealed that EET, in the opinion of respondents, contributes to the settlement of the business environment in the Czech Republic. This view is shared by the majority of the Czech public in three-fifths. Up to two thirds of companies believe that electronic sales records contribute to better tax collection. Also, the nearly two-thirds majority of the company considers the extension of the EET to be a fair and three-fifth majority to be correct. It is quite clear and clear that EET is a system with strong public support in the Czech Republic, and it is all the more unreasonable that the current five-wheeler so stubbornly insists on abolishing this functioning system. The fact that the Minister of Finance and other members of the government show that they do not look back on people's views is one thing. The second thing is that the state is going to lose CZK 13 billion every year, again, at a time when it is planning a deficit of over CZK 1,200 billion. And that is what the state receives by creating a fair business environment, which is legitimate and right. It is right that an honest part of entrepreneurs should not be put at a disadvantage compared to a minority of those who are dishonest. Equality in business lays down the legal order of the Czech Republic. If we want to, and I still believe that we want those who follow the rules not to pull the shorter end, we need to look for ways to enforce the rules. One of the options for achieving this is the introduction of electronic sales records. [[19.50 hours]] Today, the one or the one who will vote for the abolition of the EET will clearly want to vote in favour of those who want to parasite on the system, because the EET has prevented dishonest entrepreneurs from undermining the price demanded by the majority honest part of the business sector. The real effect of the EET was obvious. It was a substantial and significant reduction in the administrative burden for all parties involved. There was no threat to individual freedoms, as representatives of five-wheelers frightened, because all information has the Financial Authority and entrepreneurs already had an obligation to state them before the arrival of the EET. The Financial Authority is only able to obtain this information on time, use and analytically process it on a targeted basis, thanks to the EET. Thanks to the EET, and not only thanks to the EET, thanks to the inspection report, the combination of these instruments - the Financial Authority no longer has to initiate so-called random checks and verify which honest part of the business sphere - and here I want to say that it is, again, a complete majority - to burden them in time and administratively. One further benefit was a substantial reduction in the number of controls, when their number decreased between 2017 and 2019, i.e. three years after the introduction of the EET, by around 12 000. These controls did not unnecessarily delay honest work, on the contrary, the dishonest minority did not tolerate unfair business methods. Allow me a brief overview. Let me briefly review - in 2017, the number of customs and financial controls was above 82 000. After the introduction of the first two EET waves, this number could have decreased to just over 60,000. The finding of various offences in financial and customs controls has increased significantly. In 2017, it was 22 percent, between 2019 and double, i.e. 44 percent. Thanks to the information provided to us by the EET, the audit authorities could clearly focus on - I put - suspicious subjects in quotation marks, as a result of reducing public sector costs, but also reducing the administrative costs of an honest part of the business sector, this was another consequence. As far as controls are concerned, although the control authorities did not tolerate non-compliance with the system, the individual fines were not liquidated at the same time. The authorities fined mostly serious measures and solved three quarters without granting a financial penalty - I draw from the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration numbers. [[Mistakes?]] The abolition of the EET is disadvantageous both for the public sphere and for citizens and entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs are already re-establishing unfair competition and a grey economy. Let me use the words of Tomáš Prouza, President of the Trade and Tourism Union, and quote: "After announcing the end of the EET, we see a significant transition in particular to rural pubs and small separate grocery stores into cash. It is clear that this is an attempt to optimise financial flows and return to the grey cash zone." End of quote. Only the honest aren't beaten to cancel the EET. It is another demotivating element that affects entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. However, the fact that this is an alleged right-wing government proposal is no longer likely to surprise anyone, because the current government is far from the right, which is evident not only in the interference of the EET, but in a number of other things and activities that it proposes and discusses. At the same time, entrepreneurs with the abolition of the EET lose their natural ability to define themselves against criticism that they do not contribute a fair share to the implementation of public budgets and thus to the functioning of the state. Entrepreneurs will also lose an effective tool to support their business, which many have already built on the EET platform. It is, for example, a traffic check, e-accounts for customers, monitoring the turnover for VAT or flat-rate tax, showing turnover to the financing bank and so on. Many have linked it to accounting programs, tax programs, and there was a great deal of them. There will also certainly be a return of random tax controls and unnecessary control of honest entrepreneurs at the expense of dishonest ones. And of course, these tax controls are not free and will cost hundreds of thousands of crowns at the state's administrative costs, and another hundreds of thousands of crowns will be the share of the business sector's administrative costs. And I'm just adding that completely unnecessary. I have this information directly from interviews with the business environment throughout the Czech Republic. This government is doing an absolute minimum in the fight against the decline of households into poverty, and today we are shutting down the instrument - or wanting to abolish the instrument - that could return 13 billion to Czech households to slow down the fall of their standard of living. It is perhaps obvious to all of us that Czech households need this in today's situation regardless of political affiliation. According to data from the Czech Statistical Office, a third of households already have a problem with their funds, just these days the heat season starts and one of the hardest winters for our households for the last decade, of course also for our companies. Apart from these benefits, which could get households out of additional 13 billion, the cancellation of the EET will also have other significant costs. There is already a decline in sales points that accept - I repeat this again - cash-free payments, the number of which has increased significantly as a result of the introduction of the EET - I admit that even as a result of the covid, this has already fallen - even outside of Prague, where the possibility of payment by card may not be common. Cash-free payments, among other things, make later claims significantly easier for customers, because there is no need to keep a receipt, a guarantee note and so on. When the state shuts down the e-booking of sales, some entrepreneurs stop taking credit cards and return to cash. After all, it's already happening. "Many terminals are so-called in the plug but are not used, a number of entrepreneurs are waiting to shut down the EET," said Miroslav Lukeš, former head of the Czech Mastercard. That was a quote. However, the cancellation of the EET also carries significant costs for the public sector. The state will lose the important information that EET provided. The five-police government is constantly talking about a small, effective and digital state, but at the same time it wants to abolish the basic instrument of digitization for political reasons. Bizarre! I'm looking around at a pirate minister, but I don't see how they'd fight for digitalisation in any way, aside from the suggestion that they want to build a special office for it, but I'm worried it's going to end, too. At the same time, this information was available practically online, which allowed the State to use it to carry out its duties effectively. EET brings immediate information to the public sector about visible trends in the real development of different segments of the economy. The system immediately detects changes, which can be effectively targeted by measures or support, evaluate their influence and detect warning signals or - as I mentioned earlier - correctly target controls. The EET certainly increases the efficiency and performance of tax administration. Since we are clearly behind honest entrepreneurs who work hard and pay their taxes honestly, there is no reason to circumvent the EET, I therefore submit an amendment to the bill repealing Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on the record of sales, as amended. The possibility of voluntarily fulfilling the EET under the Sales Recording Act is a very important compromise for us, which will allow the business sector to retain at least some of the benefits that EET has brought them. [[20.00 hours]] The proposed amendment creates an obligation for Financial Administration to ensure the operation of electronic sales records in at least voluntary transactions, which, even after two years, is used by up to 60 per cent of entrepreneurs. It is the voluntary record of sales that is welcomed by entrepreneurs and their country-wide representatives, such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Trade and Tourism Union, the Association of Czech Traditional Trade. The complete shutdown of the EET without leaving the option of voluntary sales records would mean not only the termination of existing systems and the drowning of the costs already incurred for the purchase of new software, which they use for their corporate purposes and to which they are used during the years of EET operation, but also of course additional costs for the replacement of hardware. The abolition of the voluntary record of sales would deprive the entrepreneur of the investment and the company of the possibility of digital development that is being developed within this system. For these reasons, the abolition of voluntary electronic sales records is also disadvantageous for the consumer side. I therefore, my fellow Members, repeatedly and repeatedly ask you for political pragmatism and the throwing away of political jerseys. I believe that you will at least accept our amendment, but maybe you will also reconsider your opinion on the EET. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u41	Thank you. I wish everyone a quiet evening, I have taken over the meeting management, and with a factual remark, Minister Martin Kupka is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u42	I dare to take the call for a pragmatic approach. What are the facts? The expert estimate, based on the analysis of the RIA of the Ministry of Finance, says that the maximum expected return in the new reality would be CZK 4.2 billion, not CZK 13 billion. Those are the facts. To that end, it is necessary to add why this is the case, why a lower yield can be expected. This is due, in particular, to the changes that the previous period has brought, such as the introduction of a flat-rate tax, the increased threshold for VAT payers and other important changes. So let us take into account CZK 4.2 billion, and against that let us honestly state what this means from the point of view of the state, from the point of view of the necessary administration and expenditure of the state administration, and what it means for thousands of entrepreneurs, because even those who have not yet had an EET would have to take them. You are talking about how important it is to help people at this time - certainly, but if we impose new responsibilities and new spending on them, that is certainly not helping. That's exactly the opposite. Of course, there are two conflicting views in this regard, but if you call for a factual position, for a pragmatic position, I put on the table clear figures that stand on the revenue side and on the cost side, both in the case of the state and in the case of individual entrepreneurs. And in these circumstances, we say clearly: the situation has changed, the volume of payments that are already being made through cash-free contact has increased. At the same time, a number of tax changes, or tax concessions, are increasing, and this also means a change in the tax system. These are key arguments why we are proposing the abolition of the EET in the situation in which the Czech Republic finds itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u43	Thank you for keeping time and with another factual rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u44	Thank you. Madam President, I would like to respond, by your means, to my colleague Schillerová. I don't want to go back to all the discussions and all the arguments that are constantly repeated on your part and we are, of course, contradicting each other in the same way. I would just like to point out to all, including your colleagues, that in the debate that is taking place here, there are some 300,000 other businessmen who would be newly burdened with new obligations and new costs from 1 January at a time when they are facing increased energy costs and inflation. Please, let's not forget that either. However, let me return to one number, which you keep repeating here. You keep saying that EET brought 13 billion crowns into the state budget. Even this thousand times repeated number won't become true. Indeed, it is natural, at a time of economic growth, that income grew at that time, both in gas and in retail, and even in other sectors that were not burdened by EETs, and sometimes even VAT collection was much faster, higher from other sectors. So please don't say that each crown of 13 billion crowns brought EET, which means that the entrepreneurs had been hiding it in some way before. The minister was talking about the cost benefit analysis here, but I would still like to ask you on the basis of your proposal what will be the benefit to taxpayers in relation to the cost of the state. What will be the cost of the state for voluntary EET maintenance, system development, data storage and processing. [[Time!]] And the last question I'm gonna... I'm gonna turn myself in again. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u45	Exactly, thank you so much for keeping it real. Can you please have some more time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u46	Thank you. And the last question, perhaps the most important - with your proposal that you say it's a compromise on a voluntary EET. What assurance do businessmen have that a proposal for a voluntary EET does not merely mean a delay for a future return to mandatory online monitoring of individual businessmen's actions, which they will have to pay for themselves? Thank you for answering those questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u47	Thank you, and now the President is taking action. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, Mr Munzar, through the Vice-President, on your last question: you probably expect to end up in government soon, you won't have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies - otherwise I can't interpret your question. With your strength in the Chamber of Deputies, there can be no such thing, so I have no other answer for you than this. And when I heard your plans for the convention, or as you call it, the ODS, I'm sorry if I used it - Congress, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm very sorry, I didn't want to touch it - you have plans to be here for a long time, so you don't have to worry about that, and the businessmen don't have to worry about that either. Cost - based on numbers, all the numbers I used here, based on the Ministry of Finance's analysis, I didn't suck anything out of my finger. I was coming out of the numbers we had that were in RIA. And as for the voluntary EET, that's the minimum compromise. The costs would be according to the data he gave at the seminar which he organized, Patrik Nacher. Too bad you guys didn't show up, he invited you all. It wouldn't have mattered - just to hear the arguments of the other party. This would convince you that you are not in captivity to ideology, that you are listening, even though the other party did not convince you. So far, they're falling by the majority, and I don't want to touch you, through Madam Vice-President, either, but there are arguments that I've been hearing here for years. They don't have much, they don't have any new facelifts. So Mr. Government Agent, head of SPCS and NAKITA Vlado Dzurilla on this question of mine... [[Time, please!]] Can I still do it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u49	I understand, yes, there may be a discussion on the factual one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u50	Am I getting ahead of myself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u51	You prefer gentlemanly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u52	May I? Well, thank you. I would finish the idea, I will be quick - and they were there with the agreement of Minister Stanjura and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and they answered this question that it would be about 80 to 100 million a year. But there will be a unique digital project here. Your question is that they will have costs - they won't if they don't want to enter. Volunteering is either going there or not going there. And if there's still more than 50 percent to 60 percent of it, the Treasury officials have estimated it, they're still registering, so just don't stop them from doing it. Don't interrupt a unique digital project, that's all. [[20.10 hours]] This is a compromise that I offer because I am aware of the distribution of political forces and I am aware that if you just want it, you will achieve it. So I'm trying to get on my back with the representatives of the strong business community - eventually, even the Chamber of Commerce presented it, I won't repeat what I had in that speech - I'm trying to reach a compromise and maintain a voluntary EET, that's all. And what it would cost is roughly estimates, gross estimates, I have no basis for this, but the gross estimates that were made from the mouth - I think it was Director Hrdlička, Ministry of Finance, and Vlado Dzurilla, whom you know today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u53	Thank you. I would just like to point out that it is possible to debate through priority rights, and not only through factual ones, but by whomever chooses it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u54	I will also try to limit myself to two minutes for a substantive answer. What would a voluntary EET mean? Well, it would certainly mean another state's administrative cost for the digital project, but at the same time it would not bring anything to those who use some electronic tools, for example, to manage their restaurant well, so that they could also have a tool in this regard to control the functioning of their own business. That's what's important to say. And what are the digital projects, the really successful digital projects? Well, they're supposed to be used to make people feel better in general, to make things easier for them. They don't aim to add any more worries, they're forced into something. In fact, good digital tools simply simplify people's lives, and EET didn't do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u55	Thank you. The President responds with another factual response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u56	I don't think I'm gonna need two minutes. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, why are they calling for this? Why is Mr Kastner, Vice-President of the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, the owner of several restaurants in Prague and outside Prague, the organizer of many seminars and conferences on various topics and on the topic of EET, why do they call for "preserve"? He was at a seminar, he was performing there. My honored colleague Patrik Nacher, through Madam Vice-President, can confirm that. Why are they calling for this? It's simple. Now it's not about the evil Alena Schillerová trying to continue the EET here, and good Minister Martin Kupka just wants to protect them again. No. Now it's just that I'm talking in their voice, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u57	Thank you. It now seems that we are going back to the standard debate on Mr Strýček's enrollment. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u58	Good evening, Madam President, fellow Members of the Government. I would basically just make my own personal observations about this or this amendment, and basically what I read or what I met in the media, in the press. They're experts' opinions, so I don't think I'm gonna talk completely from the point of view. As our honored colleague Patrik Nacher has already said here, it is, of course, an argumentary fight, you have your arguments, we have our arguments. Yes, the argument has also been made: it is the flagship of the ANO movement, this EET, and as President Excellent, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL club, said at the press conference today, we are going to sink this flagship today. So I think it's partly because, basically, the YES movement came up with this, and you were actually already in the last term as opposed, proved or wanted to prove it at the time - sorry, you were covering yourself with, of course, small and medium-sized businessmen - that it basically came up with the YES movement, it's wrong and so on and so on and so on. Who was here in the last parliamentary term, saw essentially the 900 - and I'll call it a real name - were simply obstructive amendments that voted here, I don't know how long, you can disagree with me, so what you call obstruction today, you basically did the same thing - and that was actually the 900 amendments that you tabled on this. So the flagship of the YES movement, which you want to bring down, is unfortunately the only argument, and it's the argument of the hundred eight that you have today. As far as the cancellation of this electronic sales record is concerned, I have read a lot of things about it, and I will allow myself to interpret the opinions of experts from professional organizations from businessmen, even trade unions who consider this government plan to be a completely nonsense return to the nineties. They point out that some businesses will, of course, move some of these revenues back to the grey zone. In my opinion, as I say, it is not just my opinion, the abolition of the EET is a clear step backwards and the state should support at least a voluntary electronic registration regime, as has already been mentioned here or as proposed in the amendment. The next thing I think personally, too, is that - and it is not just my opinion, I stress again - that by this abolition of EET, it will deprive it of a potential tool for - firstly - an easy allocation of subsidies following the amount of registered sales, it will eliminate the already built-up trusted collection of receipts, which could be the basis for standardising electronic receipts, at the same time the possibility of continuously monitoring the state of the economy in individual areas of business and regions of the Republic, which I consider to be very important, because, of course, thanks to this register, an immediate overview will be how the sector in which the region is economically running or not. In the light of the current considerable, let me not use the name of the investment, I have corrected it here, a considerable cost from entrepreneurs, a built-up public administration apparatus, if progress in digitization and other benefits that electronic sales records bring, it is therefore appropriate to maintain it, at least on this voluntary basis. By abolishing the EET, the government will knowingly dispose of an instrument that could help restart tax collection from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. At the same time, the system could serve as a platform for issuing and storing electronic receipts, thus contributing to a significant shift, I say a significant shift, to digitizing the Czech economy. In addition, supporting the modernisation of cash-free reception systems and terminals is one of the current initiatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic. We therefore argue on the one hand how much we digitize the Czech Republic, while abolishing the EET is planned to de facto shut down the digitization of retail as such. Another problem - and this, of course, is my opinion, not only my opinion - is another problem that can be expected in the area of payment, the abolition of the obligation to record sales will certainly result in a reduction in the volume of cash-free transactions, because some of the entrepreneurs will again start to prefer unregistered cash revenues over recorded transactions with credit cards. The record of sales helped owners to monitor the state of their business daily and was an effective internal control tool. Last but not least, the abolition of the EET may result in an increase in the share of the grey economy, as I have already said, may also have an impact on the level of legal wages of employees, because the grey economy logically generates even unconfessed and untaxed payments of parts of wages. This is what I have met personally, and I have spoken several times with people who, for example, work in gastronomy, in hospitality, were mainly waiters or waiters of the younger date of birth, who simply received only a salary from employers up to minimum wage, of course, because the entrepreneur then had the opportunity to pay minimum social contributions and social and pension insurance contributions and the rest was basically paid in cash so-called cash on hand. And when I asked these people how much of the payment or how much of the payout they so-called take on social and pension insurance themselves, of course, nobody did anything, because they were mostly young people who weren't really bothered by the pension at the time. [[20.20 hours]] It is known that, of course, many of these establishments worked before the EET, and especially small establishments in small villages, they only worked with pencil and paper when I did a little bagelizing, and basically the EET cash register was their first register. And basically, not only did the state miss out on taxes, but also how many in many cases these restaurant owners lost because the waiters, of course, did so-called collections, delivered goods to restaurants that they bought with their own money, then sold them there and cut sales and so on and so on and so forth. As I have already said, we will probably meet with this refusal of cashless payments in the countryside and smaller cities, which will, of course, reduce comfort not only for the residents there but also for tourists. On the other hand, let's face it, people where they find out - because they get used to credit card payments, especially at the time of the covid, - of course, they don't go back to restaurants like this, because it's not completely comfortable for anyone when they're suddenly supposed to pay and find that they don't take credit cards without some kind of warning or sign somewhere at the door, and then they have to run out of the restaurant and get a payment terminal so they can pay the bill. There have been indications that, in fact, these entrepreneurs are still voluntarily registering their sales, which I have met with the number that even now, when this system is suspended - not cancelled, as my colleague Munzar has rightly said - over 200 or 250 thousand entrepreneurs continue to register their sales. So I think it's a pretty big number, and it shows something, at least about the accuracy of electronic sales records. A number of experts, on the basis of what I have mentioned, take the view that if the State does not want to force entrepreneurs to make electronic records, the whole system can be converted into voluntary services and introduced a so-called voluntary EET. I think that re-registration of sales in a voluntary regime linked to certain advantages and incentives for entrepreneurs can be a positive signal of how to manage and restore the economy and at the same time address the country's debt. In the same way, and I think it is very important, it would send a signal to honest entrepreneurs and citizens to support such entrepreneurs. Therefore, based on what I have mentioned here, I really support at least this voluntary base, this voluntary electronic record-keeping regime has been approved in some way, and there have been foundations for the next stage of digitization of the economy, which would concern the ordinary commercial transactions of citizens and the effective communication of entrepreneurs with the state in the field of tax returns, and the voluntary electronic record of sales for the originally planned third and fourth waves, I think that it can be implemented by means of a small amendment to the Sales Recording Act and can be introduced in a very short period of time. As I have said again, I am not entirely convinced of the correctness of this amendment, and therefore I am making a motion to reject this amendment to the Sales Recording Act, House Press 177, at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u59	Thank you. Just like we're all watching here, we've noted the motion to dismiss. And now, after your speech, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová is in line, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u60	Madam President, thank you, but there is no draftsman's representative or rapporteur... [[Member Munzar reports from the government bench that he's here, just like the Minister of Culture is reporting.]] I'm sorry, I can see the rapporteur, so I'm sorry, so, yes, I will continue. I apologize to my colleague. I would like to remind the Government's programming statement when discussing this government proposal, as you have heard me many times. In preparation for the discussion of this press, I was interested in several passages or rather two points concerning this press. First point: "We will prevent tax evasion." Second point: "We will reduce the bureaucratic burden of managing taxes and charges, abolish the EET's obligation and parametrically adjust the control reports." Why am I quoting this? My point is that the state will prevent tax evasion by abolishing the EET. Quite a surprise finding, in my opinion. When submitting the bill to abolish the EET, I listened well to the Minister of Finance, please, it was 23. 6th of this year. He had one excellent argument, namely a sharp increase in the volume of cash-free payments, when last year it was about 60 per cent and within two to three years experts estimate that the share of cash-free payments will rise to 80 per cent of all sales. However, I must say that the following week I took the liberty of going to Luhačovic, where I remembered the words of the Minister of the Interior. The restaurant asked me to make a cash payment, which I didn't even get a heads-up when ordering, and they had a problem issuing any document. At that time I thought it was a unique behavior, but the following days and holidays in the Czech Republic convinced me otherwise. Wanting to pay by card, i.e. cash-free, in tourist destinations it was almost impossible to pay for food. Unfortunately, I probably should have gone abroad and enjoyed somewhere else, and I was in the Czech Republic because I thought it was beautiful here. Beautiful, however, only if you have cash, not just a card. However, I look forward to fulfilling the forecast that within two to three years I will be able to do so in 80 percent. I just really think that canceling the EET will not only slow down this trend of payments to cash-free traffic, but also stop or even turn in the opposite direction. Colleagues and colleagues, as part of the second reading, I do not intend to speak very much, I just felt the need to return to the argument from the first reading. I'd just like time to show that I was wrong, and the share of cashless payments will rise even after the end of the EET, which I now consider to be science fiction. I have a request for the Minister. I suppose the rapporteur will give it to him, the Minister of Finance. Could it be possible to evaluate data on cashless payments at the end of 2023 and inform the Chamber of Deputies? Unfortunately, I fear that these data will be distorted, as part of the transactions will not be recorded anywhere. I expect a tendency towards a grey economy, an increase in the number of cash transactions, nowhere unregistered transactions, from which, as is clear, taxes will not actually be paid. I would like to end now, surprisingly I will not be able to speak with any length of time, and I will join my colleague Jiří Strýček's proposal to reject the amendment of this law, i.e. press 177.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u61	Thank you, and now Mr Patrik Nacher can take the floor and prepare not Mr Volný, but it is signed here with the opinion of the SPD Jan Hrnčíř. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u62	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister of Culture... Well, I have to say, I'm sad. I'm sad about the process, the fact that we're discussing it here, the fact that a man, instead of being with the kids, spends his time here by the end of the day. And I would still be here through midnight and two nights in a row if we were discussing things that are bothering people outside this building, which is the current rise in energy prices, and instead we're spending time, energy and capacity here to disturb something - and I'm talking about the first and second waves in particular, so that you don't give me something that I didn't say - we're giving time to something that most entrepreneurs at least through the mouth of those who speak for them by association, praises what they want to continue at least on a voluntary basis. And from that, I must say, I'm really sad. Let's just go round here nonstop and talk about things that really bother people. We have winter ahead of us, and the uncertainty between people, if you're talking to them, is great. But we're actually going completely against the meaning! [[20.30 hours]] When I'm writing notes here - and I'm going to have a rather detailed third reading post, I don't want to take advantage of it here, I want to sign up for an amendment to a voluntary EET - but what are the laws adopted for? To help something. Here, I'd identify something to help the budget or entrepreneurs. And colleagues, colleagues, I'm sorry, but I don't see the benefits here, the added value of either. Not one of them! Budget - I'll say you didn't want to raise your income by raising taxes until recently. Now that's a bit of a change in the tax on unexpected profits, which is probably what we're going to talk about in the budget for 2023, and at the same time you promised to cut where the previous government was handing it out, increasing wages and so on. Well, I don't see the cuts there, but you've completely resigned to the fact that it's not just about income and spending, but that the taxes can be collected more effectively. Now we can argue whether it's 12 billion more thanks to the EET, or the Minister said if I picked it up correctly, 4 billion, but it's still 4 billion. And you're actually just playing the revenue-expenditure note, but you're totally resigning to the efficiency of your selection. And instead of letting them get there - and as I say, first and second waves, I was skeptical of the third, fourth, and I'm saying it here as an opposition MP, I said it as a coalition, so I had the strength to say that I didn't agree with the government completely about everything. So I, of the 108 Members, have not noticed yet that anyone has said anything that they do not agree with anything, today you have not supported any of the points in the programme. And you've completely resigned to effective tax collection for something that already works, which at this point, even if it doesn't have to, voluntarily reports some 60 percent of entrepreneurs, in gastronomy, for example, which is the first wave, and you're canceling it, you're returning it to that point, you're giving it a lot of time, energy, and I really don't understand it. I don't understand it, because, of course, you don't want to create new taxes on the income side, but I'm saying, that's what we're gonna say, and I'm even. And for the cuts, it's not as easy as you thought when you were in opposition, because the number of officials I've noticed is growing. So it's not about the budget, it's not about the budget, it's not about the budget, it's about the budget, it's about the budget. So I'm looking for a second reason, and that's supporting entrepreneurs, and I'm going to repeat myself there. Entrepreneurs, if you were at that conference, you'd hear they wanted it. They want it! One argument had to be that this was one of the other employee controls. Get in between them. Ask them how it works. So it's not even business support, it's not what you're saying. And I'm really challenging you again, let's do this, so we don't really convince ourselves here that we're protecting someone, who doesn't want to do it, who doesn't want to do it like this, let's do it together, I'm calling on the rapporteur here - by the way, I'm a little sorry when I've already used the word sad, so I'm sad that there's not a petitioner here as Minister of Finance, instead it's being presented by the Minister of Transport, who is not here now, we're only at second reading, there're only six people logged in there, nobody's stalling that there's 45 people, even this is such an accompanying phenomenon - so I'm calling on the fellow rapporteur here, Vojtěch Munzar, let's do it again before the third reading of the conference about - let's call it a voluntary EET or about the future of the EET. Invite the entrepreneurs you want, let's officially invite the associations that represent entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry, you can choose that and listen to their opinions live. And like this, that's reality. It means that it falls for me, don't be mad at me - yes, it doesn't suit anyone, I'm not saying it's 100 per cent so that you don't react in fact that 100 per cent, certainly it... nothing here, nobody here in 100 per cent doesn't support what we approve here, there's no such law, not even a gracious summer certainly doesn't have 100% support - but it's my argument that it's in favour of entrepreneurs. Let me sum it up, because I want to prepare this longer with the numbers for the third reading: it's not about the budget, it's against. About businessmen, that's the target group, it's not. Their representatives say it openly - frankly, you have quotes in the media, it's not that they mumble it in the hallway somewhere - they don't want it either, so I would really like to know, give me some relevant reason why you're doing it and why you're giving it so much energy at a time when there's a war going on in Ukraine, when we're really dealing with other things here, and you're giving this so much time, so much energy and so much political capital. I don't understand. You haven't explained it yet - I can't convince you, but that's what I'd like to hear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u63	Thank you. [[Member Schiller.]] I would like to give you my word, but Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna, who I do not see in the hall, has actually signed up, so he is failing, and please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u64	Madam Vice-President, I really don't want to hold things up here. I didn't say a word or ashes to the fact that the Minister of Finance wasn't here because last week he personally told me when we had a windfall tax hearing that he would be abroad. I understood that, but please - I can see that Minister Kupka looked up there as a translator, I beg you, I don't know if I should put... [[Vice-President Richter: She's back.]] Yes, he's back. [[Minister Kupka entered the Chamber.]] I was gonna take a short break so you could come over, I can see you're back, so I'm not taking a short break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u65	I also thank you, and now with the SPD's opinion, Mr Jan Hrnčíř is registered. Mr Jan Volný can be prepared afterwards. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u66	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when the government and the Minister of Finance Babiš introduced electronic records of sales, it justified the need to combat tax evasion. Of course taxes have to be paid. Indeed, the State should combat tax avoidance and ensure compliance. Unfortunately, the Czech business environment is already tied up by excessive bureaucracy and regulation that electronic registration has made this situation even worse. If traders were to set simple rules for calculating tax obligations and their tax burden was proportionate, they would have no reason to avoid taxes. We in the SPD have been convinced from the very beginning that it is better to have a complex administration and bureaucracy within the constantly swelling administration of the state with small entrepreneurs and businessmen to replace the so-called tax flats, which has finally succeeded since last year as well. The only objective of the EET was to increase the revenue of the state budget. Unfortunately, the whole concept was taken very unhappyly, and in the perception of the general public, he touched the doctrine that the state must guard all small entrepreneurs because he cheats on taxes and steals from the state. However, any estimates of the EET's impact on state budget revenues are highly debatable and cannot be taken quite seriously. [[20.40 hours]] The initial idea that the arrival of the EET will straighten the business environment can be regarded as at least naive at a distance of time. Unfortunately, the benefits of EET are not only unclear, but also the costs of introducing but also the operation of records. The financial administration stated that the initial costs of the registration amounted to approximately CZK 370 million and the ongoing costs amounted to CZK 308 million a year. In the past, the Supreme Audit Office also pointed out the understatement of such costs. Before launching the electronic record of sales, Andrej Babiš, then Minister of Finance, promised that the operation of EET would cost CZK 250 million a year. A month later, even then head of the financial administration Martin Janeček, in an interview for the business server Enterprisel.cz, claimed that the purchase costs would be CZK 50 million and that the annual operating costs would be CZK 180 million. However, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum and the RIA report on the draft law abolishing the EET, both the acquisition and operating costs were significantly higher. According to the Ministry of Finance, the purchase costs amounted to CZK 366 million. In the context of the amendment to the Sales Recording Act, which introduced the possibility of registering sales under a special scheme, the Ministry of Finance incurred additional costs for the purchase of units of receipts of the amount of the circus 40 million. In addition, between 2017 and 2021, the Ministry of Finance paid a total of CZK 231 million for the receipt lottery. In terms of operating costs, according to current calculations of the Ministry amounted to CZK 463 million per year. The costs of ensuring technical aspects range between CZK 80 million and CZK 100 million per year, wage costs Financial Administration circa CZK 306 million per year, other costs, i.e. control activity, CZK 4 million per year, a total of approximately CZK 410 million per year for Financial Administration. For Customs administration the total cost of registration of the sales of the circus is CZK 53 million per year. This means wage costs, costs of checking compliance with the obligation to record sales, is stated in the explanatory memorandum. The total operating costs of the Ministry of Finance, Financial Administration and Customs Administration amounted to CZK 2 billion and CZK 170 million in the years 2017 to 2020. As it is difficult to determine the impact of the EET on the state budget revenue, it is also difficult to estimate the impact of the abolition of the EET on the state budget revenues. Expecting the bloom of a grey economy and decaying the business environment is completely out of reality. If the businessman didn't want to follow the law, EET didn't make him. Analyses and statistics from different states, which have a record on similar principles introduced, suggest that it makes sense to register mainly in the field of inn activities or retail trade. In other areas, the effect is already insufficient. Therefore, the costs of the EET were certainly not negligible. However, these costs generated an uncertain result, and rather than levelling the business environment, they divided society. We will therefore support the cancellation of the EET. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u67	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný is now signed in, and Mrs Lenka Knechtová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u68	Hello, thank you for your word. Colleagues, coworkers, well, there's not much of you here. However, I will allow myself to remember a little bit and miss. I saw a press conference this morning where my colleague Jakob said winged that the EET was a flagship YES, and it needs to be sunk. That means, my colleague - he was not a colleague Výborný, but he was Mr Jakob, a colleague Výborný was standing next to him, and he nodded his head like that, almost smashed his head against the counter, but he probably forgot that he voted for it a few years ago under Sobotkův's government as well as all the people. When I listened to my colleague Jakob, I was terrified that I realized that I think - and I think these people aren't stupid - he's going to be sinking that top because he's proved one big truth, unfortunately the truth: that they don't care at all, at all, about people. They're after political floscule, and it's about measuring the bag and sinking the ANO flagship. Because if it were any different...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u69	I beg you to respect certain limits of decency, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u70	Yeah, something rude?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u71	The measuring...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u72	Okay, yes, sorry. Of course, I was even more upset when my fellow rapporteur here, whom I otherwise appreciate, began to interpret the very same rhetoric. He explained how the Association of Independent or Traditional Traders in 2017 described how much it closed the business of its members, but they forgot that the same association wept on the budget committee a few weeks ago and said to us: Why are you interrupting it, don't cancel it, it was one of the good things, at least leave it optional for it to go on. The same organization, and he forgot to remember that. Of course, I don't blame the Secretary of State for that. He's just looking for numbers here, how he's gonna prove it, how unnecessary it is and how bad it is. Then the rapporteur said the completely senseless thing that you were used to repeating, as we said "dirty suspect" all the time. That's what you used. It's horrible. The Deputy Minister is simply looking for numbers. He's planted a lot of parameters here, why it has to be canceled and why it's throwing sticks under the feet of entrepreneurs and people, but he forgot to tell us what the business unions are currently saying about it, how he evaluates it. Patrik said it right. There were assets where it became clear, and they said the same thing to each other. He urges you to come again. I don't know if it's the happiest idea, maybe it is, but you don't want to hear it because you have clearly given up sinking the flagship of Babiš and showing that it was a mistake and that it was just suspicious. But the same associations, my fellow rapporteur, were on the Committee on Budgets. There were three different groups of business unions and everyone said. Let it be why you're disturbing it, it's stupid - it's established, people get used to it. I'm not going to blame the arguments here about why I think that was a good thing, and why I think that if from the 27 countries of the European Union, 20 countries have some record of sales - I'm not saying that they're electronic, but sales records - so they're probably not completely stupid. But let's ask these people. You really think people are stupid? Now you're warming up how you need to cancel and how you need to stop throwing sticks at them, and they're telling me themselves. I was one of those guys who worked hard with President Babiš here with Alenka and others. At the time, I was really the jerk I came to, the pub, my friends, the hotel: "Honzo, what are you doing, that's crazy." But it's happening again. I go to the same pubs with the same friends: Honza, you're assholes, why you're canceling it, it's a success, it helps us. Well, I just feel like a total douche bag. I'm gonna cut it, and I'm gonna close it with one thing. Why don't you ask the people? Why don't you trust the representatives of the unions? Why do you keep preaching how to stop throwing sticks at people and entrepreneurs? They're not stupid, they hear it, and they get their picture of your rhetoric and your goals, why you do it, they do it themselves. That means it's just a political floscule. It was said once, and you had it on the electoral program: we'll eliminate the EET. Without listening to anyone on the outside right now and anyone who's been through it - maybe sometime bloody, I admit it wasn't easy, but when you start it, he wants it to go on - you're just gonna ruthlessly condemn him to just throw away the whole effort. So I would like to join my colleagues and propose that this press be rejected at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u73	Thank you. I will still ask, when addressing the Members directly, through the person who is in the chair. We have Mr Vít Kaňkovský and then Mr Jiří Strýček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u74	Good evening, Madam Vice-President, colleagues. I'll really just be factual. Indeed, to the esteemed colleague Jan Volný, through Madam President. When the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales was passed in 2016, a colleague of Mr Výborný did not sit here in the Chamber of Deputies, so he could not vote in favour of this law. I sat here, voted for him, I'm not ashamed. However, I have never supported a third and fourth wave of EET and I am glad that there is another bill here today that proposes to abolish this law. But Marek Výborný didn't sit here in March 2016, he couldn't vote, so he can have any opinion he wants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u75	Thank you for keeping the time and Mr. Jiří Strýček with his de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u76	So good evening again, co-workers, co-workers. I would just like to correct my statement in my speech on the sinking of the EET flagship. I was mistaken to say that this was Mr Výborný's statement, for which I apologise, as I was correct, it was Mr Jakob, so I apologise to Mr Výborný's colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u77	Thank you. In addition to the factual President Alena Schillerová. He prefers Mr Jan Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u78	Well, I'd be very brief. My colleague, I'm sorry Mr. Výborný, I'm sure you'll tell him. I could have studied that. However, you people voted - I didn't realize he wasn't here yet, so I apologize to him. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u79	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you again to address me through. And Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u80	Thank you. I thank Mr Kaňkovský, through you, Madam Vice-President, for voting in favour of the introduction of the EET years ago. I respect that he was opposed to the third and fourth waves, but that is precisely what does not prevent him from supporting my amendment, for which I thank him in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u81	Thank you and we are returning to the debate to which Mrs Lenka Knechtová is registered and Mr Martin Kukla will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u82	Madam President, thank you for the floor. The honourable Member, honourable Members, Mr Minister, in my opinion this is clearly an irresponsible step. The argument cannot be accepted that, due to the pandemic, cash-free payments which are not subject to EET have increased significantly. In my opinion, the cancellation of the EET brings everything back to the way it was, thus distorting the market and putting honest entrepreneurs at a disadvantage again, and not to mention those who pay taxes properly. Electronic sales log is an electronic cash sales log system for sales of goods and services. EET is a modern system of rapid communication between entrepreneurs and the Financial Administration and is one of the most important tax measures in the Czech Republic. Since December 2016, the Ministry of Finance has introduced online cash registers that allow the Financial Administration to monitor payments in restaurants, hotels and shops. Today, experts from professional organizations, entrepreneurs and trade unionists consider the current government's plan to be a senseless return to the so-called '90s'. They point out that some businesses have moved part of their income back to the grey economy. According to many, the state should, on the contrary, reward businessmen so-called. Many of the experts and restaurants themselves are making themselves clear today. It would be right to maintain the EET on a voluntary basis, with entrepreneurs using the system having some advantages from the state. The state would then tell them indirectly that it trusted them. So said Luboš Kastner from the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders. Currently, when the system is suspended, over 200,000 entrepreneurs continue to voluntarily record their sales. With rewards from the state, many others could return to the system. "It could be a benefit, for example, that these entrepreneurs would not be on the lookout for the Financial Administration, or at a time when measures similar to those in the pandemic would have to be implemented in some way again, it would have been the registering entrepreneurs who would have received preferential compensation from the state for admitting their income transparently," Kastner lists. Miroslav Lukeš, who runs the Czech Fintech Association, is also convinced that abolishing the EET would be a wasted opportunity. It is an instrument that has been adopted by a large proportion of entrepreneurs and which has brought a number of benefits. Rather, the State should look for ways to use this system in the context of ever-repeated digitalisation. I could imagine using the system in the idea of digital tax return, and that already works in many countries today. "We are saying how much we digitize the Czech Republic, while the plan is actually to shut down the digitization of retail," says Mr Lukeš. According to him, many establishments worked in front of the EET with only paper and pencil. "The EET cash register was their first one and found out how much the state was robbed of, but also how many waiters were robbed of, how many opportunities for their business were lost," Mr Lukeš says. Even Mr Menclík, the manager of the cashier Touchka, is convinced that voluntary registration can really help open another path to digitizing business. "I can imagine, for example, how to digitize administrative activities by means of an existing system or introduce a voluntary, state-guaranteed and secure digital register of receipts, saving millions of tons of unnecessarily printed cash registers and terminals that end up in the garbage bin in the vast majority, cash registers whose digital data can be sent," Menclík claims. In addition, experts mention another very unpleasant effect of the possible end of the system, namely less willingness of entrepreneurs to accept credit cards, and thus a return in cash, which may not always appear among the allocated revenues. Another important vote to support voluntary registration is from the Chamber of Commerce and proposes to use the abbreviation DET for such a system - voluntary record of sales. "The state could thus, thanks to DET, purposefully appreciate transparent businessmen instead of the general demotivation of distrust of all entrepreneurs en bloc," says the spokesman of the Chamber of Commerce. In general, the Chamber supported the idea of EET, as it sees in it, as well as other critics canceling records, measures to limit unfair competition or to level up the business environment. Entrepreneurs who conceal sales and therefore do not pay taxes or health and social insurance are undoubtedly privileged to those who are regular payers. Mr Lukeš also points out that. A number of customers enjoyed the fact that the company where they came from acted according to the rules and, like them, paid taxes. Many business associations want to maintain the EET precisely because they want to show that they are not tax-payers and that their sector is honest. Personally, I do not agree with the Ministry of Finance's justification that the state is coming a year due to the operation of the system by half a billion crowns a year and entrepreneurs due to the necessary maintenance of the system by another 1.5 billion. I wonder how you got those numbers. In my opinion, this cannot be counted for entrepreneurs. Even trade unions are significantly sharper than the professional public: "We call on the current government to fundamentally reconsider the plans for the total abolition of the EET and to extend its scope to all relevant taxpayers according to the original plans. This step is not only necessary for tax justice, but it brings the necessary resources for public finances in the Czech Republic," says Josef Středula, head of the Czech Moravian Trade Union. According to him, the mere renewal of the EET to the originally functioning extent would bring an additional income of at least CZK 12 billion each year for the budget, and if the previously planned expansion of the EET were to take place, this amount would be at least CZK 20 billion. [[21.00 hours]] The EET is also supported by representatives of the largest professional organization in the sector, President of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants Václav Stárek. "We have never resisted the electrical record of sales, on the contrary, we supported it at the time of the introduction," Stárek said, saying that the project led a number of entrepreneurs to register VAT, which used to be very difficult. In his view, such a step would be taken by the government to send honest entrepreneurs a message that such a step would pay off thanks to an easy, rapid approach to economic incentives and the simplification of their administration. That is why I want to make it clear that we do not waste what has already been done. Businesses dedicated to e-booking sales prepared easy, efficient, user-friendly solutions for entrepreneurs that did not burden business and were also economically advantageous. You just need a printer, computer, laptop, tablet, mobile phone, connected to the internet and specific custom-made applications, a specific business takes care of everything. During its operation, EET secured almost CZK 60 billion of additional revenue for the state budget. Thanks to the EET, we have 13 billion more in the state budget each year, only from the first two waves. In the event of the introduction of the third and fourth EET wave, according to estimates by the Ministry of Finance, an additional 7.7 billion would be recovered, i.e. a total of almost 21 billion each year. That is why I call you, let us not waste the opportunity and investment that has become an unnecessary subject of political struggles. That's why I'm filing a motion to reject the amendment to the Sales Registration Act, press 177. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u83	Thank you. It is clear, therefore, that you are joining the motion already made for rejection. That will then be voted in the third reading. And I now see the facts with which the Prime Minister is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u84	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I just got a text from whatsapp - I don't know this guy, he's from the South Moravian Region, so I assume he sent it to me as a member of the South Moravian Region. Please allow me to read this: "I hope the EET will at least stay on volunteering. A lot of people invested in it. So I'm personally in favour of further use, I've got it on my cell phone, and I can issue my ID at any time. I usually e-mail it, but I also have a small printer for my belt. Then you can sort it out." Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u85	Thank you and another enrollment is Mr Martin Kukla. Next, Mr David Štolpa can prepare himself. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u86	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been discussing with the EET here for quite a while last time. My speech today won't be that long, it's been quite a lot of hours. I am very sorry that the EET, such a successful project, has become a political struggle between the coalition and the opposition. When we look at how much energy it cost to introduce the whole system, how much cost it cost, and it became a very successful project - to level up the business environment, it brought a relatively significant amount of money into the state budget. And today we are faced with the question of whether we will drag this political struggle to the end and cancel this successful project. I would like to join my colleagues and make a motion to reject the amendment to the Sales Recording Act, House Press No. 177. As I was saying, I won't be long, but I'll just briefly sum up. The electronic sales log was introduced on 1 December 2016, it was called the first EET wave and covered the food and hospitality sector. Following that, the electronic record of sales spread to the retail and wholesale segment on 1 March 2017 and the third and fourth waves were postponed as a result of the intervention of the Constitutional Court and consequently as a result of the health crisis. Finally, the Constitutional Court stated in its verdict that not only is the EET not unconstitutional, but it is a legitimate instrument for verifying tax obligations. When we think about what EET has brought us: the electronic record of sales has met expectations, namely the settlement of the business environment, fair conditions for honest entrepreneurs, smooth functioning without technical problems and difficulties. The gradual onset was without complications. She brought a tax discount, reduced the tax burden. A clear and verifiable contribution to the state budget - more than 70, more than 60 billion crowns since the introduction of the EET. 12.8 billion per year for the first and second waves, or the introduction of a third and fourth waves additional 7.7 billion per year. From the outset, the electronic record of sales is conceived as a surface measure with a gradual start-up, whose main objective is the settlement of the business environment in the Czech Republic, as well as a higher collection of taxes, which creates scope for reducing the tax burden in the Czech Republic. For this reason, the introduction of electronic sales records involves a significant reduction in VAT in all sectors where harmonised European tax legislation allows it. The reduction in VAT remains largely in the form of a higher margin for entrepreneurs and, together with the elimination of unfair competition, is the reason why the electronic record of sales from the outset is supported by most professional and trade unions, chambers and associations. This has to be stressed here. Electronic sales log is one of the most important tax measures and at the same time the most important step in correcting the business environment in our modern history. A fair environment is one where everyone has the same conditions and in which they properly perform their duties. I'm sorry -- I'm sure we all have that experience from the past, even now that the EET was in place -- it's true, it was painful, we had to get used to it a little bit, but those people got used to it. We accepted receipts and paid the taxes properly. And today, Petr Fiala's government is supporting the gray economy. That means you're going to get something fixed, something done, and of course they're going to ask you if you want it with a document or without a document. I encounter such examples normally in everyday life. It's sad, I'm sorry that we're standing here today before whether to preserve the EET or not. And Petr Fiala's government prefers the grey economy in the Czech Republic. That is why I will remind you again and make a motion to reject the amendment to the Sales Recording Act, House Press 177. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u87	Thank you. Mr David Štolpa is also signed in and will prepare the last one to be submitted for discussion, Mrs Balaštíková. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u88	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the abolition of electronic sales records, and I have the feeling, not only on the basis of this, but also other government ideas and proposals from recent months and weeks, that all meaningful and functional government is shutting down, and, on the contrary, the more nonsense, the greater the force in the House is trying to push it through and outrun it. In the summer it approved a deficit of CZK 330 billion for this year, but subsequently it went on. During last Wednesday, the budget committee, where the government has, of course, a majority, supported two amendments, which will increase this year's state budget deficit even to the resulting 375 billion, and for 2023 the state budget deficit is to be similar. Such a budget now represents budgetary responsibility. A year ago, the government that declared how it would manage wisely and not indebt our country. And in this situation, the government wants to give up another source of income. By the way, the extent of the grey economy in the Czech Republic expressed as a percentage of GDP in 2010, i.e. under the ODS government, the extent of the grey economy in the Czech Republic was 16.6%. In 2019, the last year before the covid, it was only 13 percent. In 2021, i.e. after shutting down the EET, it jumped up to 13.9 percent. [[21.10 hours]] The ODS and its entire government and all government parties so simply wish for the return and expansion of the grey economy, otherwise I cannot explain it. The electronic record of sales currently doesn't really matter to anyone involved. For some reason, it only bothers the current government coalition. Why? I think that's pretty clear. But what seems to be okay is the decline in revenue from the state budget that has been linked to the EET. Minister Stanjura and the entire government are repeating with him that we, as a government, have left public finances in turmoil. It's not true. This was confirmed by Eurostat, which confirmed the Czech Republic as the sixth least indebted country of the European Union. Moreover, we are constantly hearing what all the money is missing, but we are voluntarily losing 13 billion in the state budget here. It's 13 billion a year. Every year when the government weeps over high deficits, it can only blame itself if it has voluntarily disposed of one of the tools for better tax collection. Minister Stanjura is supposed to cancel the party assignment EET. At the same time, however, it will cry over the state of the budget that government politicians portray as the worst in Europe, and it will ordain savings and belt tightening for citizens and entrepreneurs. Let's be clear and honest about the reason for the abolition of the EET, why this government is shutting down the tool for combating the grey economy, and so it goes directly against its programming statement. Does the coalition have another better plan? Is there another solution in his drawer? Is that what the unions and associations are asking for? The answer to all questions is simple. This coalition has only one agenda. It's not even helping people, it's not even the health care they take money from. It's logical. A blind man of five totally disparate parties who have one single link, and this is Antibabiš - just like the Pirates, abolishes the construction law that won the Law of the Year and which would move the construction proceedings just because the Babiš government approved it, so for the very same reason we are discussing today the Act on the abolition of the EET. It's that simple. EET is a successful project by Andrej Babiš, everyone has a connection with it, so even though it works, objectively levelled the market environment and brought money into the state register, it is necessary to cancel it. I see you've been manipulating yourself over the past few years in a situation where you're probably wondering that there's nothing else left for you, even though you know you're not doing well. But there is a solution: voluntary EET. Even now, the EET is voluntary because of the covid, and do you know how many subjects are still using it? Sixty percent! Try to finally less Antibabiš-politics, start working actually for the benefit of citizens and companies. It's high time. In short, even if I wanted to, I can't think of a reasonable reason to cancel electronic sales records. That's why I'm joining the motion to dismiss the law at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u89	děkovat you, Congressman, and the last one is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u90	Perhaps for the last time today, colleagues. My previous speakers actually said everything I wanted to say, and I would only make a very short, tiny resumé out of everything that was here. Basically, the EET wanted to create a fair environment where everyone has the same conditions and in which proper performance of duties does not constitute a competitive disadvantage. It certainly didn't touch large and medium-sized companies. Some disciplines and small businesses have no chance of being in control at all. And I think that at a time when everyone's looking for money - we see what's coming to us, so please, you should deal with the fact that EET did bring 13 billion after all. The Minister of Finance is cutting off the billion, the two and the thirteen just threw out the window like that? And if EET went on, of course, it was expected to be another 7 billion, which means 21 billion revenue. I would like to say the businesswoman's sentence, because I printed out what businessmen said after the introduction of the EET, as they looked at it. Of course, it wasn't just positive stuff, we're not kidding each other. There were small operators who said, "But even the customer is comfortable with me taking money in cash and not giving him an invoice. I believe it suits him, but I think that we should not support people who take from a common purse, want to have education for free for their children, want to draw health, social, and we who pay taxes, and I think we workers who get it from employers, we all contribute to that. And I want to ask: we really want to support people who don't pay taxes, we're going to cut off those who behave honestly, and we're going to constantly sponsor those who don't do a single crown. And if someone is doing business on the assumption that they don't pay taxes, and the EET has brought him down - please nicely, let's ask ourselves, " Do we want businessmen like that?" I don't think so. He shouldn't have been here long ago! He should have been employed and worked in a company that properly transferred health, social and, at the end of the year, paid corporate or natural tax to the Treasury. And I think that if we were to talk about at least keeping the first two waves of EET, we'd keep 13 billion and put them back where we really cut them off, and I think it was a shame, whether it was health or education - we're cutting the change and throwing away the big purses. I don't think he belongs here, and if the Minister wanted to be budgetaryly responsible, that's not what he's talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u91	Thank you, and I no longer see anyone enrolled in the general debate, so I am ending it. I ask if there is an interest in the final words after the general debate? It's not. We have nothing to vote on, so I am opening a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. This is President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u92	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, I've already justified it, now I'd like to sign up for it. I am signing up for my amendment, which is deposited in the system under number 1401 and was duly justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-001-006.u93	Thank you, too. Once again, I look around, I really don't see anyone logged in anymore, so I am also ending the detailed debate. And again, I ask for order, is there interest in final words? The rapporteur does not, nor does the appellant. Again, I will sum up that there has been no voter proposal, or I will conclude with this second reading of this proposal and, in accordance with the agreement that has been made here, first thank the rapporteur and the Minister, and then I will say goodbye to all of you. I'm done with today's meeting. I'll meet you here tomorrow at 9:00, we'll continue. You have a quiet evening.
