ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u1	147. Government bill on special procedures in the area of spatial planning and construction regulations in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of troops of the Russian Federation /German press 228/ - shortened negotiations This proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government for Digitalisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u2	Good evening, fellow Members, Madam President, Members. Allow me to present to you the Government's draft law on special procedures in the area of spatial planning and construction regulations. The Government has agreed to this special law because the current regulation of public building law is not designed to meet the needs of the migration wave in the context of the ongoing armed conflict in Ukraine. It is therefore desirable to provide for special temporary relief in the context of the processes governed by the Construction Act, thereby ensuring that the persons concerned can provide basic living needs in the area of housing or accommodation and, where appropriate, also in the field of education and social or health care, as the capacity of housing units or accommodation facilities and related public infrastructure is not currently dimensioned to such a significant increase in demand. The proposed legislation lays down specific procedures in the area of planning and construction rules as special legislation for the construction law, including implementing legislation and related legislation, with the exception of the procedure and requirements specifically adapted in the proposed regulation. The proposal introduces the concept of necessary construction. Such a construction is defined as a construction to mitigate the consequences of the mass influx of persons in the context of the armed conflict. The necessary construction is always a temporary construction, its duration may not exceed three years from the date of acquisition of the legal effects of consent to the execution of such a necessary construction. At the same time, in view of the nature of the necessary construction, the proposal defines that the Czech Republic or its contribution organisation, the region, the municipality, or a legal entity established by it or established by it. In the draft law, the procedure is chosen, which is known to all the construction authorities. The basis is a common territorial agreement with the implementation of the notified construction project, whose application will therefore not cause any difficulties in practice. On 1 June 2022, the Government approved the bill by resolution 445 and asked the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic to decide that the Government's bill would be discussed in a shortened hearing in the context of a declared state of legislative emergency. This morning, the draft law was discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the Chamber of Deputies, which approved the draft law with three minor amendments to the legislation of a technical nature with which I agree as the petitioner, and I have one more amendment to be tabled. I'll speak to him later. In short, I would like to describe the mechanics, because some of the questions were very thorough and aimed really at individual nuances of legal interpretation, and I am glad that the debate on the committee was constructive and we have clarified these issues. But I think it's actually important to describe the functionality as intended. You are a municipality or a region, or an organization in that list, which has either an existing object in its territory or simply a place where it is possible to build an object at a given time, whether it is some kind of leisure centre with a hospice, or a question of spending school lunches, but also housing capacity, their extension of accommodation. And it's either on a green meadow or in the form of building modifications that we know in the way of some superstructure or extension. And at this point, the law allows us to get permission to actually build this building after the need is declared by the contracting authority to run it, build it with the individual - let's say - loose rules and work with the construction for three years as temporary construction. [[20.20 hours]] Of course, if the municipality or the person who will order this construction - the builder - wants to get into the regime that after that time or even before all the requirements will be added, for example, the change in the zoning plan, then the construction, after the three years, is already operating normally in the regime, it is classified for those purposes for which it is, however, if it does not happen this way, this construction would subsequently have to be removed. So it really leaves the possibility to go along the way of building some temporary buildings, which will then cease to have their purpose, maybe they will be dismantled if it is a modular type of construction, and these either take somewhere, donate, sell or otherwise dispose of for those needs, or if it comes close to that in the course of the three years, or the adjustment will be directed from the outset to the assumption that the temporaryity will be expected by subsequent modification and alignment with the requirements overcharged, then this construction will normally remain in the regime for which it is classified, to the use of the municipality, the region or to whoever decided to purchase it. Even changing the zoning plan, it basically works this way - I gave an example of the old factory, but it could be anything else, we chose the factory because it is according to the zoning plan an area where some industrial activity is to be carried out, in the zoning plan it is recorded this way, you decide that there will be a hostel, you go this way - of course this requires it, if it should be a construction that will continue to operate with this purpose after three years, compliance with the zoning plan and its change, which must then be discussed in the regime. I wanted to thank you today on the committee, so we were about two hours or an hour and a half it took the meeting, we tried to answer the questions, if they fell here and in the House, I will try to respond adequately to them and find an answer. Otherwise I would have done so if there was no other will of the House as part of the performance, that I would rather collect notes and I would always speak in summary, because not every Member may be watching in the hall, but he is somewhere in the halls of television, he may miss an answer if the questions were repeated, so that it would be all at once. I thank you for discussing the bill and its support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u3	Thank you. And since the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, to which the Government's bill has been ordered by decision of the President, has discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 228/1, I ask now that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jiří Havránek, take the floor. Please inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and, if necessary, justify the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u4	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, the Vice-President of the Government has had quite an extensive word here, I will just add a few details. The Government approved the proposal by its 445th resolution of 1 June 2022 and the following day, 2. 6. it has been sent to us by Members as the House Press 228. As has already been said here, the aim of the bill is to simplify and accelerate the process of placing and authorising buildings in Ukraine in response to the migration wave caused by armed conflict in the area of Ukraine to ensure the basic living needs of the persons concerned in the area of housing or accommodation and, where appropriate, in the field of education and social or health care. As far as the committee is concerned today, I would really like to thank all the colleagues who were at this committee meeting, because I think that although it took two hours, it was really consensual and subsequently the whole resolution, as well as the amendments we approved unanimously, which I am really pleased about in this House, and it is, of course, a pleasant change for me as a rookie. The resolution itself. It was therefore the 36th resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development from our 8th meeting today, where "after the opening words of Dr Ivan Bartoš, Minister for Regional Development, following the report of Mr Jiří Havránek, and after the debate of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the Chamber of Deputies I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to end its negotiations on this bill by 24 no later than today; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on special procedures in the area of spatial planning and building rules in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 228, as amended by the amendment" which we adopted, these are three simple points really in leg tech format, "and V. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee to the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments." This is therefore the resolution of our Committee on Public Administration. I thank everyone once again, and as I have already said, the negotiations have been really beneficial, simple, fast, and I believe that even here in the House, we will be able to deal with this important standard quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. And now I'm going to sing. Because we will decide whether to hold a general debate. And I'm opening the vote. Who is in favour of us having a general debate? Who opposes us having a general debate? In the 91 vote, 166 Members and Members were enrolled, for 118, against 0. So we have approved the general debate that I am opening with this. And Mrs Klára Dostálová is duly enrolled in the general debate. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u6	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. A lot has been said here by both the Minister and the rapporteur. We have really devoted ourselves to the press very intensively and in depth within the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, yet let me draw attention to some - from my point of view - of the problematic passages that are in this law. [[20.30 hours]] But I am glad that the Minister, and I will, of course, always mention it, reflected these remarks. The first point that we have discussed on the committee is that this law is not linked to the Public Procurement Act, which, of course, can be problematic, because the whole principle of the law is, in fact, to help quickly in the context of the refugee crisis. So the municipalities will be able to build basically right away, but then they will compete for a year. We have agreed with the Minister that this can no longer be added to the explanatory report to help the mayors, because, for example, in the context of the covido situation, the European Commission itself has issued a methodological instruction that it should be followed without publication in the negotiated procedure. The Minister has promised a methodology to this, because I believe that all mayors and mayors will want to lean a little bit, so that they actually have a reason why they will actually choose, for example, anything that will help the refugee crisis to use, for example, negotiated procedures without publication. We have been going through the whole law, we have also made some amendments that make it even more clear, these were really buildings that serve housing, education, education, school services, health or social services and related transport and technical constructions, so that it is actually explicitly stated that the priority is especially those connected with housing, accommodation, education and so on. What we discussed in detail was Section 3, and here was tabled an amendment, which is under number 921. And I would like to thank both Minister Bartoš and Minister Kupek from this place, but also my colleague Havránek and Láďa Oklešťek, because we have put together an amendment because the list of potential builders, as stated in Section 3, is that it may be the Czech Republic or its contribution organisation, the region, the municipality or established or established legal person. And we have been very concerned with the fact that, for example, the Czech Post as a state enterprise has many unused buildings which would certainly be suitable for any purpose type of educational activities, community centers as well as station buildings. That is why I am glad that we have prepared an amendment, as I have already said, under number 921, which responds to the fact that the potential contractor may actually be a state enterprise or a state organisation. What I think is very important is to draw the attention of Members who are also mayors, mayors, captains and so on. It must be noted that this law allows municipalities to grant themselves an exemption - or a region - from spatial planning. Indeed, there is a need for municipalities to consider very carefully all the projects that they will implement, because if they opt out of the planning area, where, for example, there is some way of removing or making an exception to the agricultural land fund, as the Minister has said, it is temporary for three years, and in order to legalize the construction for further use, this must be done through a proper process. Likewise, municipalities, regions can opt out of technical requirements, for example, the height of the room, the sunshine, the brightness of the room and so on. And once again, this needs to be taken into account, and if the municipalities approach such intentions and give themselves the technical exceptions to realize that in three years, they will actually have to go through the construction process properly. And here I come up with one big problem, which maybe some of us don't realize, is that municipalities spend public funds on temporary construction for three years, and then, if they don't meet all those requirements under construction law, they have to remove it. And the mayor will have a very difficult role to explain to the council that he will liquidate the public funds put into that construction after three years. It is therefore necessary to draw attention here to the fact that all municipalities and cities will think forward about what the constructions will serve for the future, whether they really insist that they remain there permanently for further use of the municipality, and with these exceptions they treat very cautiously. Another slightly contradictory point is that in the finals, if the municipality does not fulfil the construction law as we know it, it will have to remove the construction, and it will not remove it, so in fact the law is that the municipality will fine itself. Which, of course, would never happen, which is why the Ministry explained to us that this could not happen and that it would always have to decide another office, because, of course, the municipality cannot be a judge within itself. I also consider it very important what is actually to be documented. We also dealt with the time series of events, because you, as a builder, a municipality, a region, a city and so on, must announce the requirement for the necessary construction within one year with all the essentials, which I consider to be very important. And then actually, once it comes to legal efficiency, it's three years to implement a concrete construction. In the context of Section 7, we also, as they said, have technically adapted legislation in order to make it clear that the intention of the necessary construction must be supplemented by a statement, which is already in paragraph. h § 7, but in order to be clear that it must be the declaration of the builder, that is, it really must be supported by a particular region, city, municipalities and so on, who is the particular builder. We had a little debate about how individual intentions would actually be announced. I would like to thank you that it has actually responded to the comments from the interreort, because the property rights have also been affected there. The Ministry responded very quickly so that private land could not really be taken into account without knowing the specific ownership, so that the bill had already reached the conclusion that it could only be with the consent of the owner, just as the construction had to be done, of course if it was allowed on a so-called joint decision, so it must be notified to all the neighbours concerned. [[Owners?]] What it's not for, then it's the housewarming process, where the things are only being announced to the builder as such. We explained today on the committee that it is already in the construction law even today that the construction office communicates with the owner only as part of the housewarming process. It's a little misleading here, or misleading... it's a question of those judicial reviews, because the law states that it doesn't have suspensive effect, which means that, although judicial reviews can actually be, however, without suspensive effect, the lawsuit needs to be brought within 7 days. The period of 15 days for the authorities concerned shall also be shortened. And here I would just like to draw attention to the fact that if the body concerned does not express itself within 15 days, there are principles that are not regulated in this law, but the law of construction applies as such, that is, the fiction of consent. It is a question, and we have also been discussing this on the committee today, how will the builder announce that the body concerned has not expressed itself to him if it is really going to be announced. We were assured that in practice it works so that if the builder doesn't get the statement within 15 days, he will issue a notice to the builder that he used fiction and thus the builder will prove it to the construction office. What's important is that the owners of technical infrastructure have no fiction. They also have a shortened deadline, but if the network owners do not express themselves, there cannot be a fiction of consent and it really is subject to criminal proceedings, and again here, because the municipality cannot be a judge to itself, and the municipality decides about the offences, then another office would have to deal with it in order to ensure that the law is served. I took this very briefly, because we discussed a lot of things on the committee today. On the other hand, I must say completely that it is a question - we have added the amendment at least to those state enterprises and state organisations, but, from my point of view, it would certainly be desirable for the church, nonprofit organizations, perhaps even private owners to take advantage of it, because the principle of the law itself is to respond as quickly as possible to the refugee crisis. But on the other hand, I understand that this is such an exceptional procedure within the framework of building law that the petitioner tried to narrow down as many of the potential builders as possible to do it in the future after three years, when the temporary buildings, if they do not properly collapse under construction law, should be removed, so that it does not overwhelm both the courts and, of course, the construction offices themselves. [[20.40 hours]] Thank you for your attention and I believe that this will actually work in practice. And once again, I would like to appeal to all mayors and mayors to really consider very carefully what projects they will implement under this law so that they will not get into trouble in the future, that they will explain intricately in their council how they have dealt with public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u7	Thank you. And now Prime Minister Ivan Bartoš reports with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u8	Thank you. Maybe I'll just add something that's already been said. We were talking on the committee, too, about how important it is for these things to be said here. I already have empirical experience when, in cooperation with the regions and with representatives of the municipalities, we prepared - and it adds a bit to this legislative change - a challenge where regions and municipalities can use public funds to repair housing units of CZK 120,000 per bed or to repair accommodation units within a hostel. This is actually a framework where this can also be applied. And there were a lot of questions about it that maybe even sometimes arose from some inaccurate expression or not reading a certain part of the text. Well, I'm glad the question of competition has been raised here. If the project is not already under way, it is not linked to the Public Procurement Act, but there are possibilities of using, for example, time limits under § 57 para. 2 of the Public Procurement Act. There is - the time limit after the submission of tenders may be shortened in the case of supply contracts or service contracts to be 15 days and then there are those conditions where point (b) is important, which states: In the case of urgent circumstances which the contracting authority could not have foreseen or caused them, it makes it impossible to apply the time limit as defined in paragraph 2. 1. The urgency of the circumstances shall be justified by the contracting authority in the procurement documents. In most cases, a simplified sub-limit procedure will also be possible, where the deadline for submission of tenders can be reduced to 15 days. Of course, the legal certainty with which the builder or the one who will enter into this is essential. Otherwise, I'm happy for the appeal. It's actually a situation -- and that's what the legislation's all about -- when you're dealing with a non-standard situation. Of course, if I built a building boom on this law in the village with the fact that I flagrantly ignore the fact that these things will have to be classified, or I simply will not consider it at the moment, it would be a failed investment and even in the political space it would be very difficult to defend that large funds from municipal resources were devoted to the fact that something was built that would then have to be removed after three years, because it would not meet the conditions. Otherwise, for the action that has been brought here, it shall be filed within a month according to the law, within one month of the date of receipt of the common consent, the fiction of consent shall then be resolved. For infrastructure buildings, or sorry, for the owner of the technical infrastructure, it can't be a matter of substance, because apart from the fact that the networks are somehow in the country, you're dealing with the actual existence of the connections, because you're not going to suggest it - there's going to be a house, but you have to figure out where the individual networks end, what the way the new network or existing connections will be connected. I just wanted to say one more thing, and it's important, too, because we found out that at least there isn't that much awareness of this institute. These are technical requirements for the necessary buildings, where they are mentioned in point (a) of Section 20 of the paragraph where suspension is changed or where items of the type of superstructure are used. Unless you're interfering with... Unless it's a new building, but it's a construction change... It's a change, but it's still in the same location mode, so she doesn't even have to apply today. We've been dealing with two examples, I'll be very specific again, it's a matter of parking spaces. So if these are some superstructures, construction work, where the installation doesn't allow you to fill the parameters, which, when you're building on a green meadow, are required, the amenities, of course, this doesn't apply. I think that's the number of the 501. Likewise, when you are working - and we were talking about the amount of ceilings in some object, such as the soil superstructure, so even today you can again lean on Decree 268 Reconstruction or construction work. Indeed, 268 need not be applied if construction or technical or other reasons exclude this. But watch out again, that doesn't mean he's resigning - it mustn't endanger the health of the person who's using it, on life, there's, like, the limits on the 2.5 meters ceiling and the like. Of course, this is probably from realization to realization, but these two decrees relate to the problem, regardless of whether we are amending here or making this adjustment, where we are actually dealing with this construction process in lex Ukraine. And I have some notes here - I would still distinguish the areas of agriculture in the land plan and the agricultural soil fund. I wouldn't confuse that, but that's too much detail. If only we could get to it again, I could divorce this. And I would like to thank President Dostálová for summing this up. I have a few more comments, but I think these were the most key things that have been said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u9	Thank you, Minister. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Robert Stržínek has come forward. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I dare to use this time to ask the Minister. Now, as mayor, of course, we are dealing with the Ukrainian crisis, like many cities, and as mayor of Wallachian Meziříčí, I am in contact with our people. We were able to accommodate Ukrajinec, we were able to provide material security. Now we're dealing with children's integration. We're doing well at elementary schools, we've got free capacities there, and we're definitely gonna make it. But on the edge or almost beyond the light edge, we're in the case of kindergarten schools, so logically we're thinking about building some modern modular structure to one of our seven kindergartens, something that we're talking about right now. And my question is, how will MMR possibly support these buildings financially? So I'm talking specifically about the possibility of subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u11	Thank you. With priority rights or de facto rights? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u12	I'd be quick to react. In this legislative change and even in some possible strategy of the development of the region, the city, the municipality, we are trying to put the framework on one side and, on the other, the funds that can be used for this, either in the form of subsidies, and even in the IROP, the money is intended and the IROP will now start in the summer for the construction and reconstruction of kindergartens. I think this is the package from which we can use the challenge we put on the MMR. It was specifically on housing and housing issues and we will continue to work with the Ministry of Education to ensure that these projects, too, can be funded. There are kindergartens and schools at the IROP right now, if I'm not mistaken, I don't know how we've taken up preschool facilities now. And of course it's one thing to have a framework and projects and then to look for an appropriate financial instrument where the subsidies are one of the... I don't know if any of the products in national subsidies are already being designed at this point, but we're also dealing with this area. As I'm saying, the first challenge for the MMR that we're extending now, and we're still changing parameters, was aimed purely at housing units and apartments, but of course we're also working with the idea of an adequate financial resource for this type of project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u13	Thank you. And I am now trying to find out if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? Doesn't look like it. That is why I am ending the general debate. For the sake of order, will I ask for interest in the final words now before the detailed? It's not. I therefore open the debate in detail, to which Mrs Klára Dostálová is registered. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to sign up for Amendment 921. As I have already announced, this is an amendment where the potential range of builders is extended to Section 3 and the words state enterprise and state organisation are inserted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u15	Thank you. And he has yet to report for a detailed debate by the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u16	Thank you for the floor. I, too, am still in favour of the said Amendment 921, which we tabled together with the President and Mr Oklešťek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-004-147.u17	Thank you, so these would be applications in a detailed debate. I've got it marked. Let me just point out, then, that the amendments were actually justified, but that was in the previous debate. And by this, I believe, I can end the detailed debate, that is so. I ask you now, for the sake of order, is there interest in the final words? This is not the case and I am therefore ending the second reading of this proposal. But at the same time, we just have to say whether it is necessary to multiply this amendment or whether the rapporteur will deal with it? It will, great. If there is no objection, I can interrupt this point, interrupt the hearing, and we will now proceed to that block of third reading. So now I'm opening the interrupted point.
