ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. Mr. Jaroslav Dvořák, who will vote with card number 31, has so far done so. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 35th meeting on 25 August of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Michal Zuna. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anyone like that. Therefore, I will vote on these two wheels as designated verifiers. I therefore ask you to vote. Initiate the vote and please raise your hand as to who you are in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 1 registered 115 present, for 111, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Michal Zuna as the verifiers for the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that until the beginning of the meeting they asked for apologies for the Bernard Josef, for the whole day, for the Potůčková Lucie, for the Bělohlávková Romana, for the whole day, for the Josef day, Naiclerová the Knechtová day, for the whole day, Kuchař the Jan day of work, for the whole day, for the whole day of work, for the whole day, for the Pošarová Marie of work, for the whole day, for the Kašník day of work, for the whole day, for the whole day of work, for the Berkovcová Jana, for the Kasal David of work, for the whole Koten, for the Jiří Carbol of work, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole day of work, for the whole day, for the Wenzl Milan of work, for the Foldyna Jaroslav, for the Heller Šimon, for the whole day, for the Kohajda Michael of work, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the period of work, for the Olšáková day, for the whole Eliška, for the Krutáková Jana's sake of work, for the Robert day, for the whole day, for the sitting, for the Pavel day, for the Kobza, for the whole Pavel, for the whole day, for the sitting, for the 17, for the whole day, for medical Staněk, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the Vrána of the whole day, for the Petr of work, Stržínek the whole day, for the whole Turek, for the Libor Jaroslav, for the reasons of the sitting, for the whole day, for reasons of work, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the Dražilová day, Jáč Ivan of the Ondřej day, for the period, for Hana of work, for the Flek day, for the whole day, for reasons of work, for the duration, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the period, for the period of work, for the period, for the period, for the whole day, for the period, for the period, for the period, for the period, for the period, for the period, for the period, for the period of work, for the whole day, for the duration, for the duration, for the Martin day, for the whole day, for the Hájek Jiří, for the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the [[A round of applause from the benches of members of the government coalition.]] From the members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day for working reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Jurečka Marian between 14 and 15.30 for working reasons, Langšádlová Helena from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk until 18.30 for working reasons and Síkela Jozef from the whole day for working reasons. [[A round of applause from members of the opposition.]] [[A round of applause from members of the opposition.]] That's all from the apology. We will now proceed to the proposal for the 35th meeting, as stated on the invitation. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I beg you to keep your voice down. First of all, I'm going to introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. Firstly, we propose to include new points in the proposal for a programme: Parliament's Press 289, the Government's Bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher, vocational and other education, school law, as amended, first reading, into the block of Laws - first reading; House printing 240, health insurance plans of health insurance companies for 2022, with the Government's statement, together with the evaluation of health insurance plans for 2022 and table annexes, to the News block, proposals and more. Secondly, we propose to sort out the points in the Act block - second reading as follows: first point 7, House printing 67, Government bill on Antarctica, second reading; second reading; point 12, House printing 139, Government bill on the use of digital instruments, second reading; point 13, House printing 150, Government bill on the entry and import of cultural goods, second reading; point 18, House printing 207, Government bill, civil aviation and trade law, second reading; point 19, House printing 216, Government bill, conditions for the operation of vehicles on roads, all second reading, and then points according to the draft agenda meeting. Thirdly, we propose the following procedure for this week: today, Tuesday, 6 September, discuss the items in order: first, paragraph 26, House printing 249, Government draft law on public procurement, first reading; then paragraph 32, House printing 285, Government draft law on the spread of terrorist content online, also first reading, and continue the points from the block of second reading - laws, until 18.30. At 6:30 p.m., we propose to firmly include item 2, House press 151, plant health care, returned to the Senate; then paragraph 96, House press 272, Parliamentary draft law on agriculture and the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, first reading, pursuant to § 90 para. 2; paragraph 3, House press 174, on significant market power, second reading. [[14.10 hours]] Tomorrow, Wednesday, 7 September, discuss the points as follows: paragraph 17, House press 203, Government bill on international cooperation in tax administration, second reading; paragraph 31, House press 284, Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, first reading; paragraph 25, House print 238, Government bill on investment companies and funds, first reading. If they are discussed, continue with the following points from the Act block - second reading, these are points 20, House press 218, the Government's proposal for a law on coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office; paragraph 21, House press 219, the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on coordination of cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office; paragraph 15, House press 177, the Government's proposal for a Act on the abolition of the EET, all second reading, until 13.50 hours when we propose to discuss the electoral point 134, changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. If item 31 is not negotiated, i.e. print 284, draft law on the state budget for this year, we will return to its discussion after paragraph 134, i.e. Changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. On Thursday, September 8, immediately after the discussion of paragraph 171, which is the government's response to written interpelations, do we propose to discuss the points of the Treaty block - second reading, points 97 to 102, House prints 157, 194, 200, 255, and then proceed - or there is a mistake? [[Disappointment alert - 99.]] 99 - so I said it wrong, I apologize: discussing points from the Treaty block - second reading, which are points 99 to 102, to make everything okay, I apologize. Following the continuation of points 167, House document 911, financing the development of school infrastructure from IROP 2021 to 2027; point 5, House print 213, Government bill on consumer protection, second reading; point 27, House print 251, Government bill, foreign trade in sensitive material in connection with the digitization of public administration, first reading under Section 90 para. 2, and continue further points from block second reading - laws. At 1:30 p.m. discuss paragraph 172, oral interpelation, and at 18:00 or after discussing this point continue further points according to the draft agenda, namely points from block second reading - laws. Finally, on Friday 9 September, discuss the points from the third reading block, which are points 108, House press 206, the Government's draft inland navigation law; paragraph 109, House press 73, the Government's draft law on pharmaceuticals; Point 110, House Press 167, Government Bill on Medical Devices; paragraph 111, House Press 168, Government Bill on Medical Devices - Related, and paragraph 112, House Press 215, Parliamentary Bill on Civil Service. Then proceed with the items according to the draft agenda of the meeting. And the information at the end, on 27. At the 33rd meeting of the House, item 1 was discussed, i.e. the House Press 166/6, 104, House Press 274, and 105, House Press 275. Please cut them off, there is no need to vote on this, these points will no longer be on the agenda of the opening meeting by being discussed. That's all on my side. I ask now that you, Madam Members, also speak on the agenda. The word has already been made available in several writings; Tomio Okamura is first registered with priority rights, followed by a number of other Members; Radek Vondráček is next. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose as the first extraordinary item in today's House of Deputies meeting a point called the Harmful Purple Government does not address the expensive and should resign. So that's the name of that point, and now I'd like to justify it. While the Fialův Government has survived the vote on distrust in Parliament, it is also proven that most citizens do not have confidence. Last week there was a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on a motion to express distrust to the government of Petr Fiala, which was also convened on the basis of the signatures of the SPD Members. The government has declared its confidence here with the hundred eight, but the reality is that the government of Petr Fiala is not secured with gas supplies for companies for the coming winter, coal supplies are waiting for up to two months. Prices of electricity, fuel and food continue to rise steeply. Inflation affects 20 percent, and citizens and companies have a legitimate fear of surviving this winter because of Petr Fiala's inactivity. The government has no solutions, and the statements made by its members are confusing. The government is not thinking of our citizens, companies are failing, regions and municipalities do not have contracted energy supplies for schools, hospitals, senior homes for next year, and the government is now calling for a Europe-wide solution. Such a government should resign immediately and it needs to be discussed here as an extraordinary point, as millions of Czech citizens are rushing into economic, social and financial disasters due to the coalition government of ODS, TOP 09, STAN, Pirates and KDU-ČSL. Moreover, Petr Fiala's government intends to owe our republic more than a trillion crowns. The Czech Republic is a state whose public debt is growing fastest from all EU Member States, and it is all because of the government of Petr Fiala from ODS. The Ministry of Finance, led by Zbyněk Stanjura of ODS, proposes a state budget deficit of CZK 270 billion next year, despite the fact that it estimates a total of 120 billion higher VAT revenues, excise duties and income taxes for natural and legal persons than this year. For this year, the government wants to increase the budget deficit to CZK 330 billion and, according to the outlook for the next two years, plans additional deficits every year around CZK 250 billion. All indications are that Petr Fiala's government from the ODS intends to owe the Czech Republic more than CZK 1 trillion in total during its planned four-year mandate! But before the elections, the Fialův's government coalition, the electoral coalition, and the current government coalition, was falsely promising to cut public finances and balanced state budgets before the elections. The state budget that you have designed here is unfinanceable, and I point out here that the state's planned expenditures are so high that the state is unable to secure sufficient revenue for them. So it's another line of government cynical and conscious lies. The government of Petr Fiala destroys citizens, destroys companies, destroys the whole Czech Republic and has to end. That is why I propose this - and I repeat again - as the first special item in today's House of Deputies meeting. Winter is coming and we are really coming to unsolvable problems because of this government - unsolvable problems for citizens, for companies, for institutions. The Czech Republic is now a state whose public debt is growing fastest from all EU Member States. This means not only that Petr Fiala, according to international surveys, is the least popular prime minister ever, from all the countries of the European Union, those surveys are public and you all know them, but even you have thrown our republic - because I wouldn't care, because your government doesn't have our trust - but by dragging the entire Czech Republic into your incompetence, and it is proven that the public debt of the Czech Republic under your government - we are even the worst at it, you most indebt the Czech Republic, and here it is necessary to say clearly enough again! The SPD movement has already repeatedly submitted its programming proposals on the structure of state budget parameters, including a rapid reduction in the state's necessary expenditure in the area of public bureaucracy, a reduction in payments to the EU budget, a reduction in expenditure on overpriced military contracts from abroad. We say: Yes, let us modernize the army, yes, let us have a modern army, but not these overpriced orders, the most expensive fighters in the world - for 100 billion and so on. We also say that we want to limit the payment of social benefits to inadaptable ones, and you have rejected our law here, so you even support the inadaptable ones! [[14.20 hours]] On the income side, the SPD proposes, for example, taxation of multinational Facebook and Google-type internet giants, which generate huge profits in the Czech Republic without taxation in the Czech Republic, or taxation of dividends issued by foreign corporations from the Czech Republic - taxation of tax-free dividends that are made here into tax havens. Only that would be about 75 billion to the state budget. But you do not defend the interests of the Czech Republic, the government of Petr Fiala, you defend the interests of Brussels, Berlin, Kiev and Washington, and you don't give a damn about our citizens. That is, I will repeat it again: I would like, on behalf of the SPD, that the first item of today's House of Deputies meeting be a point called the Harmful Purple Government does not address the expensive and should resign. As a second point, I propose today's meeting, because this is the actuality, a point called Prime Minister Fiala of the ODS falsely and arrogantly accused and insulted up to 100,000 citizens. So I repeat: Prime Minister Fiala of the ODS falsely and arrogantly accused and insulted up to 100,000 citizens. And now I'm going to justify it. People are out of patience with Prime Minister Fiala and his incompetent ministers. The logical continuation of the distrust hearing to the government of Petr Fiala from ODS was on Saturday 3 September a demonstration at Wenceslas Square in Prague, which was attended by up to 100,000 citizens. This demonstration, which was also attended by members of the SPD and our supporters, was an expression of the legitimate concerns of citizens about their future because of the total inability of government, the failure to solve serious economic and social problems, and there were justified demands for the demise of the government of Petr Fiala. Our citizens have never felt so hopeless in modern history, and it is clear that people have run out of patience with Prime Minister Fiala of the ODS and his incompetent ministers. The current government doesn't give a shit about them and has left our citizens and businesses in the lurch. The subsequent media statements by Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS regarding this demonstration were, quite frankly, arrogant and stupid. Angry citizens demonstrated here, and this was a legitimate and completely legitimate protest. With his statements publicly and without evidence, Prime Minister Fiala accused as many as 100,000 participants in this demonstration of cooperation with foreign power against the interests of our country. It's a lie. Up to 100,000 citizens who participated in the demonstration have nothing to do with Russia. These citizens who participated in this demonstration simply have no power bills, no money, no fear for their future this winter because of the incompetent Fialův government. For the SPD movement, it is an unacceptable situation, an unacceptable situation where one of the citizens - and here it was up to 100,000 citizens who participated in the demonstration - I am talking about those citizens who attended the demonstration - so Prime Minister Fiala labeled them simply because they disagree with government policy. That's what happened here with the lies and vileness and incredibly crooked members of the government coalition, that when someone disagrees with the incompetent government of Petr Fiala and with the harmful government of Petr Fiala, they immediately label him as pro-Russian, there is no evidence for it, and it is not true. It's a dirty lie that Prime Minister Fial has marked up to 100,000 citizens in this way just because they're worried about their future because of you, they're worried about not making a living, they're worried about going out on the street because of your five ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates. And Prime Minister Petr Fiala will insult those 100,000 citizens and their families even more and their relatives, that is simply absolutely unacceptable! Incompetent Prime Minister Fiala is only trying to mask his own inability to deal with expensive, organised crime and corruption in government parties, which are the true reasons for the high participation of citizens in this demonstration. I'm talking about the citizens that are there. The SPD didn't even organize the demonstration, we're not co-organizers, I don't even know the organizers, I'm talking about the citizens. There were 100,000 citizens, and that's what this is about. So that's the real reason. And the situation in which the Prime Minister blames the citizens of the Czech Republic in this way cannot be seen otherwise than as an attack on civil rights and fundamental democratic principles. We demand that the Prime Minister either substantiate his claims against almost 100,000 citizens concerned with clear evidence or publicly apologise to the participants in the demonstration and then resign from his post. So once again, as a second point, I propose a point called Prime Minister Fiala of the ODS falsely and arrogantly accused and insulted up to 100,000 citizens - that's the name, and I'll just deliver who took part in the Saturday demonstration. I also have item number 3 prepared here, which I would like to propose as the third point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is a point called the Purple Government does not defend Czech interests, but is a vassal of Brussels and Berlin. And now I'd like to justify it. Germany is promoting the definitive end of the sovereignty of states in the European Union. During his visit to Prague last week, German Federal Chancellor Olaf Scholz publicly proposed that the principle of unanimity and the veto of the Member States, including the area of tax, defence and foreign policy, should cease to apply in the votes of the European Council. If this long-term German plan were implemented, it would be the definitive end of the state sovereignty of the Czech Republic, whose citizens would be completely under the control of foreign interests, especially Berlin and Brussels. It is absolutely shocking that Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský of the Pirates did not immediately delineate themselves against this powerfully arrogant attitude of the German Chancellor, in the past they identified him as appropriate. It is so obvious that Petr Fiala's government, composed of ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and STAN, does not defend the national interests and sovereignty of the Czech Republic, but is a vassal mainly of Germany. Indeed, it is rumored that Prime Minister Petr Fiala, because the government is already downhill - and the call is growing, of course, 80 percent of the citizens no longer trust your government according to the survey, so the overwhelming majority - that is how they see themselves in the place of the Commissioner, so that is why it is even more on the hand of Berlin and Brussels, instead of Mrs Jourová of the ANO movement, who also does not defend the interests of the Czech Republic. I must say that it is quite obvious that your government does not defend the interests and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. The position of the German Chancellor makes an urgent adoption of the SPD's proposal for a referendum law, including the possibility of voting on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union, in which all our citizens could comment on this fundamental issue. But the current government has postponed its discussion in the House for a long time, and I must say that unfortunately, members of the ANO movement have made it clear here this year that they are against the referendum law. She said so here on behalf of the members of the ANO movement, Mrs Válková. So the SPD movement is the only party that is promoting democracy here, pushing for the referendum law to apply here, and we will continue to fight to have democracy here in the Czech Republic, not censorship that Petr Fiala's government is setting up here. Even when you created a new position in the government as the Censor-in-Censor, some Mr. Klíma, that people are paying him to... That's how he handled the challenge, Petr Fiala's government, how you made that website, the government website in the spring, and you called on the citizens to snitch and report to each other when someone else has an opinion other than your government. The totality of the worst caliber! So, on the contrary, we want the bill on referendums, we want the direct choice and rescindability of politicians. That's exactly what the SPD is promoting. So that was point number three. And I would call item number four, or the title I propose as the fourth item on the agenda of today's House of Deputies meeting, a point called Reparation for the Nazi occupation. The SPD's movement advocates that the Czech government, like Polish, demand a reparation for the Nazi occupation in Germany. Poland has decided to officially request Germany to pay for war reparations during the Nazi occupation, announced last week on the occasion of the 83rd anniversary... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Can I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please lower your voice and move your conversations to the lobby, if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u4	So he announced this last week on the occasion of the 83rd anniversary of the outbreak of World War II by the key Polish politician Jaroslaw Kaczyński, Chairman of the ruling Party Law and Justice. The compensation for the damage to be paid by Germany to Poland is 6.2 trillion zloty, which is approximately 32 trillion crowns. At the same time, this Polish demand points to the cowardice and lying of many Czech government politicians who repeatedly claimed that it is no longer legally or politically possible to ask Germany to pay for war reparations. The SPD movement, as the only political force, has long publicly claimed that the Czech Republic, too, must demand Germany's accelerated payment of the reparations that Germany owes us as the successor state of the Nazi Third Reich. We still owe them to us for the brutal occupation of the Czech countries between 1939 and 1945, the death of more than 360 000 of our citizens and for causing enormous economic and property damage. We have an obvious legal claim, and we are obliged to our ancestors and all the victims of the Nazi occupation. The right to pay for these war reparations was granted to us by the Potsdam Conference and the Paris Reparation Conference. Of the total amount granted to us by the Paris reparation agreement, which was CZK 306 billion in the then currency, Germany has still paid us only 0.07%, i.e. less than a thousandth. According to credible estimates and calculations based on the evolution of the value of the currency and prices, Germany owes us at least CZK 4 trillion, with some estimates talking about up to CZK 15 trillion. So the situation is because of the governments so far that the Němec have increased their standard of living for our money, we have unnecessary low salaries here, and our citizens are struggling, even though the money might have been here. Already in the past period of the SPD, specifically I asked in writing the government of then Prime Minister Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement to enforce the reparation. I wrote a letter to Minister Petříček, Minister of Foreign Affairs during the last period under the ČSSD, but Babišův's government refused to do so with an indication of possible disruption of Czech-German relations. Well, that's very good. So instead of getting up to 15 trillion crowns and instead of acting confidently and nationally, Czechs, such as Polák, but Řek have already opened this question, the Greek government too, so servility to Brussels and Berlin takes place. In the bow, in the bow are the Czech governments before them! The SPD movement supports Poland's claim to Germany as justified and we believe that the Czech Republic must proceed in the same way. In that sense, I have also prepared a letter to Prime Minister Petr Fial, who I will be sending him this week. And we'll wait for an answer. I know the answer, he'll be scared again. He's timid. Well, to be scared... He is convinced that there is a need to be servile towards Brussels, Berlin and Washington, and yet God knows to whom. The SPD says the obvious: We are neither pro-Russian, nor pro-Brazilian, nor pro-brussels, nor pro-Cheian, nor pro-Kyevian, nor pro-American. For us, the Czech Republic is first and the Czech citizen is first and the SPD will continue to pursue this policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u5	Now with priority rights, the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club has signed up - but I do not see him here at this time - President Výborný. And now he's running, so he's still in time, and I'll ask for the Prime Minister's speech. Subsequently, Vice-President Havlíček claimed priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to record here two points on which there was no 100% consensus at that moment at the meeting of political grémia, and I would like to put it on the agenda of the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, paragraph 34, House press 287, that is the government bill amending Act No. 12/2020 Coll., on the right to digital services and related regulations, House printing 287, and to be included on the agenda of today's meeting as the third point after already from the Gremia included points 26 and 32. Furthermore, I ask that the agenda of tomorrow's meeting, that is, on Wednesday, 7 September, before Gremia, item 17, House press 203, be included as the first item in the meeting tomorrow, paragraph 165, House press 281, proposal for the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations by 2024 with a view to 2025 and so on, House press 281. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Mr Havlíček will now speak with priority rights on the agenda and Mr Vondráček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u8	Hello. I'm gonna go ahead with the proposal to include another energy point. Before I say his name, I'll explain why I'm coming up with it. It is a de facto regular energy levy for the Chamber of Deputies. I am saying this because I have performed here many times, and at virtually every meeting I propose some points on how to deal with the energy crisis. I'm not saying I have keys to everything, everything we've designed has always been brilliant. I understand it's a pretty difficult decision to make. But the fact is, after the government, especially Minister Síkela, has always laughed at us, saying not to advise him, most of these points are unfortunately being introduced with a huge delay. At this point, we're confused. We are confused about what kind of support will be in the coming weeks, months and perhaps even in the longer term, because it is still fourteen days, Minister Síkela said that there will be no company support this year. After he was given a knife to the neck from the regions, from professional unions and so on, he changed his mind and decided that the so-called European framework of support would really start, but there is no explanation when it will be, there is no explanation of how much it will be, we do not know anything about it at all. The only thing we're discussing right now is whether it's going to be for companies that are in loss or not, which is unacceptable for us. We believe that this should be discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore say definitively whether or not something will happen. It's the same with an energy-saving tariff that nobody knows about today but really nobody. While 14 days ago it was 2,000 for the household this year, a week ago it was 4,000. Meanwhile, the STAN movement has held a press conference where it said that they would like it to be CZK 10,000. The term is coming up, the energy-saving tariff is going to work from 1 October, and we don't know if it's going to be 4,000, if it's going to be CZK 10,000, if it's going to be validated by the government, this proposal or not. So that's the second thing that needs to be discussed, so that families know when they're getting low, how much will it at least be. And what's most important, what's being discussed these last few days, is the ceiling. While until fourteen days ago it was taboo - it will not be ceilinging itself to save more, yes, this was the main reason, so after a small revolution has been made, including a revolution in five coalition, at least some of the workers, maybe even factions, so at the moment the ceiling is again on the table, which is good news. Several scenarios are reported to be being prepared. We have a European Council before the meeting, and we know absolutely nothing. It is worse that in the last few days, yes, you can hear well, until September 1st, the analysis has been given to three commercial companies that are currently processing options of how energy support will continue. I ask logically, and I think that all other Members ask why it is not done by officials of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, for there are more than a hundred of them only in the field of energy, why it is dealt with at the last minute, why commercial companies are getting it. To make matters worse, the government, after lending tens and tens of billions of crowns to three energy manufacturing companies, decided to advise the government, so they are not likely to be working at the moment, and we do not know how, the Ministry of Industry officials, but they are working consulting firms, and beware, those who will be concerned with the fact that there will be certain measures, or power producers, or possibly producers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u9	I apologize for the interruption, Mr Vice-President, but I'm going to ask my colleague and colleagues in the room to keep it down. The noise level is too high. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. And I'll be done. This means that our goal is to include as the first point, which will be called Engagement of energy prices and other support. Let us be clear about this, so that we can say who is working on what, who has what interests there, what strategy the government has at the moment, what scenarios it wants to present to the Council of Ministers this week, and we also want to hear how much resources the government is prepared to allocate again to support it, and we want to hear what timetable. I think it's nothing abnormal, and at the moment, I consider it a number one priority. That is why I demand that this be classified as item 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u11	As a point number 1 today, I presume. [[Ambassador Havlíček agrees.]] Yes, thank you. We are now coming to other people who have entered without prior rights, so it is now Mr Radek Vondráček and Mr Brázdil will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u12	Madam President, thank you for the word that I'm gonna get my turn at 14.40 I didn't even expect, which is a pleasant surprise for me. On my written application I called a new point Government information on the current state of illegal migration in the Czech Republic and I only ask for the inclusion of this new point, I will not ask for a firm classification, which I will now comment on. I have already talked about this issue in the vote on distrust of the government. I understand, of course, that we were ravishing and it was already 6:00 a.m., but there were other colleagues who responded to me, and there was a debate going on. I expected at least some reaction from the Minister of the Interior, at least something - the Minister of the Interior was not at the vote, he is not here today and silent. I think that's the worst possible option, and I'd like to ask the government coalition for their own sake to try to do it the other way around this time before it does it, and when the problem is huge, they'll start to solve it. Now that we have an agreement within the Chamber of Deputies, we will find time in this meeting, we will say that it will take an hour, and the Home Secretary, who just doesn't have time for it, because he doesn't have time for the day's work, he's still dealing with some scandals, so he would at least inform us about what's going on, and if what's spreading between people is, or isn't true, he'll be able to calm the situation in time. Don't do it the way you do it with everything and all the time. I am a Member of the Zlín Region and I have actually been ordered repeatedly by citizens in the office and have come up with concerns about what is happening on the Slovak-Czech border, that there are really Syrian refugees in the forest, migrants, that police are there, they are passing helicopters, there is simply increased movement of people and the situation is gradation because last Monday there was a person with me and he said that they are no longer in the woods, that they are already travelling normally, that it happens to him that he is on the road and meets four migrants. The fact that the situation is gratifying and more complex illustrates that, starting today, a centre is open at a police school in Holešov, where these migrants are concentrated and where their papers are somehow handled when I say this in a very simple way. I'd like to ask the Home Secretary what the situation really is, if it's true that they're being captured about 50 a day. If I only took 50 a day, it's 1,500 a month plus minus, and they all agree it's just the tip of the iceberg. And now the question is, what happens to them then, because the police will hold them back, they will find out that they have come from Slovakia, they have no papers, Hungary and Slovakia have released them without more, and so they will get their first confirmation within the territory of the European Union. They can only hold them for three days. It is true that they will then put them on the train towards Slovakia, but nothing prevents them from getting off again at the next stop and try again. So we have two types of refugees: one that goes unnoticed - and that's most, and then some part that's being held by the police. They try, do what they can, however they must release them and they try again, most often to the German Federal Republic. But it is true that the German Federal Republic, when it holds them in its territory, finds that the entry papers, when I say it so simply again, have them from the Czech Republic, returns them to us on the Czech border and this ping-pong is repeated several times. Does this look like a normal system to you? Does that strike you as a normal system solution within the European Union? Definitely not to me. I have information - again, I ask, is it true? - the smuggling gangs are hiring them in Serbia, they're going through Hungary and Slovakia without any problems, and actually the first one where they're being captured, so here we are. I don't want to panic, I contacted the Zlín governor, who confirmed to me that he knew about this situation, because several mayors of the municipalities turned to him in writing. Then he turned to the Regional Police Director and was actually informed that this, as I'm telling you, is the reality of the Zlín Region, I'm not making it up. And now the question is, what's going to happen? How is any communication with Slovakia ensured? Because the only way to do this is with the Slovak side. Well, thank you for the Minister being here, so I guess he'll answer. [[Minister Austrian came to the O.R.]] I say we can handle it with a sophisticated debate here in the Chamber of Deputies, but the Slovak police are turning their sight away rather than dealing with it. That may be what the Minister will tell us, how is it then with personnel security, with budgetary collateral, with financial collateral, how does the new center in Holešov now work? Mr. Governor told me that so far, there's zero crime associated with the migration wave. That is excellent news, I would also like to say, at least as far as I know, but these people are moving around here for how many days, unknown ways and how, and so when they are being returned, they will not come back anyway, and they are supposedly being repeatedly returned from the Federal Republic of Germany. And the smuggler says to them, either they catch you, then they put you on the bus and take you even closer to the German border to the detention facility, so the Czech government will give you a free taxi, or if they don't catch you, go there and there on the train and go there and there. So the Czech Republic is now becoming a migration route within the European Union, perhaps not a meaningless migration route. I don't want to put a dog's head on anybody, but there wasn't a trail for us, there weren't migrants. And I don't know if it's in the European Union's interest for these people to come here unchecked and mass. Yes, their target country is Germany, but it's Germany that catches them there that brings them back to us. And how long will their target country Germany and Germany not respond? They move within the territory of the European Union and we are a member country of the European Union, and eventually the problem will appear with them, so they will eventually appear with us. And I feel like the problem hasn't been solved in the long run. Therefore, I propose this extraordinary point, I do not propose its firm inclusion. I would ask the President of the MPs and the Minister if, in the context of the tense, I understand, the tense agenda of this meeting does not find a time period of one hour if we briefly comment on this when we hear the answers, because the problem itself will not go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u13	Mr Brázdil will wait a little longer, because Minister Rakušan has now signed up with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe I'll surprise my reaction, but then I'll explain the context of the whole thing. I certainly do not prevent us from opening this debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, because, as my colleague has already mentioned, the problem has been unresolved for a long time and has not been resolved for a very long time. Of course, at this point, he's graduating, and I'll explain why. You said, "There were no migration routes for us." It is because Erdogan, at this point in time before the presidential elections from Turkey, lets Syřan who have been there for a long time after agreement at European level, the European Union has been paying Turkey a lot of money. The agreement has expired, and President Erdogan is, of course, opening the way to Europe. This is the first thing that is here, and therefore also the composition of migrants appearing on our territory, on the territory of Austria, on the territory of Hungary, on the territory of Germany, on the territory of Slovakia are from 90 to 95 percent Syřan. They are people who, of course, do not come from the country of origin at this time, that is, from Syria, but they are people who are coming from Turkey at this time, which is a proven and documented matter. [[14.50 hours]] The first thing that doesn't work with the domino effect is Hungary. Hungary does not accept readmis, that is, it goes to Austria not tens a day, not hundreds a day, but thousands a day. I think there were some 5 to 6,000 people who came to Austria last week. Austria seeks to apply the Readmission Agreement vis-à-vis Hungary, Hungary does not accept. Slovakia tries to apply the Readmission Agreement to Hungary, Hungary does not accept. We have a domino effect here. The Czech Republic is trying to apply readmission agreements to Slovakia. I'd stop by here. We had a meeting at the level of the Police President of the Czech Republic and Slovak Republic, where the basic concept of readmisi was agreed so that Slovakia, like the Czech Republic, had to accept Germany. On Wednesday in Brno I have a bilateral meeting with the Slovak Interior Minister at the top level, where the Czech Republic has prepared the concept of the need to comply with the Readmission Agreement between Slovakia and the Czech Republic in cooperation with our Ministry, the police and the Ministry of Justice. It's not true that we haven't responded at all. Mr. Police President and I had a big press conference on migration some 14 days ago. Based on this press conference, the exercise was started when the Slovak-Czech border closed in quotation marks, or it was renewed for 48 hours. The controls were going on there. The next thing we do is increase the capacity of the refugee facility management from some 800 to some 1 040. The management of refugee facilities is making use of all its spare capacities, which, as I said, has been increased by staff and capacity. The next step - next Monday I have a meeting with the Bavarian Minister of the Interior on how the German Party stands up to the Readmissions. Mr. Police President, if I'm not mistaken, yesterday or the day before yesterday, has dealt with the Saxon police chief, because information on German police unions has appeared in the media that would require the border to be closed. It is not the official opinion of the leadership of the German police, neither the Saxon, nor the Bavarian, nor the political representation at central or Earth level. This means that Germany is not interested in closing borders with the Czech Republic at this time, which I want to guarantee, and that is why I am going to the negotiations with the Bavarian Interior Minister. Another thing that we have done at this time - it is, of course, one of the points at the ministerial meeting of the ministers of the European Union, which the Czech Republic is chairing at this time - is a problem that does not concern the Czech Republic, on the contrary, we still benefit from the fact that it is a transit migration. In the case of Austria, there are hundreds of applications for asylum every day, not in the case of the Czech Republic. These people are receiving an exit order to leave the Czech Republic and, of course, they are going to Germany in some case, where Germany is returning the people to the Czech Republic in some case, just as we are returning and returning to Slovakia. This is a domino effect, which is triggered primarily by Hungary as such not basically taking any readmission agreements with its neighbouring states. It needs to be realised that this is a European problem, and yes, you are right, the solution must be at European level, which is why the Czech Presidency will explicitly have a proposal for some solution to the regulation of asylum law at European level. For further strengthening external border control, which is a very important issue. We are talking about the reform of Frontex, Frontex is increasing the number of its members. By the way, under the Czech Presidency, the new chief of Frontex will also be selected, and we will also be selected as such. Thus, the Czech Republic responded immediately, currently there is increased supervision of the Police of the Czech Republic over this area in the Zlín Region and South Moravian Region. There are also random checks at the border, and at this point, the capture is, of course, in numbers that correspond to what is happening in Central Europe. We are witnessing that Erdogan is probably doing something before his presidential elections that can be called instrumentalisation of migration, and of course, as the Czech Republic, we cannot completely avoid this problem. However, I say again: this is a transit migration, the security situation of the citizens of the Czech Republic is preserved. And I am ready to inform the Chamber of Deputies through the President, my colleague, but I would like to ask for patience, because I will certainly not bring the solution before I have bilateral negotiations with both the Slovak side, which is on Wednesday and next Monday with the Bavarian Minister of the Interior. Then it is certainly appropriate from the agreement on which the whole thing hangs, i.e. the agreement on functional readymises between the Czech Republic and Slovakia, then I will definitely inform. Of course, and we are already under some regime, the problem is also dealt with by services that give legal addressees their outputs about this situation. But I'm not doing anything illegal if I reveal that the cause lies in Turkey. The reason for this is that we have an open barricade for Europe on the part of Turkey. That's why there's such an increase, that's why we have these numbers. And it is a great success for the Police of the Czech Republic that the security situation in the Czech Republic has not deteriorated according to all available numbers, neither in the South Moravian Region, nor in the Zlín Region for the last month and a half, when it is a hot topic, crime has not gone up, crime has not gone up, there have been any serious measures. And the last thing I want to say: with Minister Blažek, we have set up a task force, which will certainly reach your committee through Madam President, which is to tighten the punishments for the smugglers. And, of course, we want to talk to the D.A., to the judges about why the smugglers do not end up in custody during the proven commission of this activity, which, of course, is also a deterrent matter that should be here. The working group will present its result of tightening sanctions for smuggling in the near future to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. With the Minister, we will inform the Chamber of Deputies comprehensively, but at the moment when all the negotiations that we will now hold in the course of the week will take place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u15	I will remind you that we are in the debate on the agenda of the meeting and that Mr Brázdil is also on the agenda. The following is Mrs Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u16	Hello. So you see 50 people on the Slovak-Slovak border, and because of that, the Minister is willing to come here, but 50 people - rescuers of Czech people who spend their whole lives here, no one here is willing to discuss this. And so sorry, hello, I wanted to welcome you again to today's meeting and at the same time tell you that I'm very proud to be a paramedic. I'm even proud to be an MP now because I can represent the EMTs here in the House. The kind of people who are such heartbreakers and give themselves away, and everyone here doesn't give a shit about them. Why? Well, they're regional. They're not state firefighters or state police that the Minister should defend, they're regional organizations. However, all of you who were here last term, you realized that, and I would love for you to realize that today. It's been exactly ten years since the methanol affair started here. While during the floods, when I was performing here last time, it was 20 years from the flood where the paramedics worked and gave out, so now it's been ten years since the methanol affair. That's when only 17 people died, almost 50 people died here, and 90 of them are in a lot of trouble. Formic acid... they can't, they're blind, they're damaged liver. Someone had to take care of them all in that difficult situation, and they were rescue workers. There were cops, firemen and paramedics. So I'm here to see you again, colleagues, waste some time of your time to allow me to place a point today that will be dealt with by the paramedics. [[15.00 hours]] Worst you know who he is? Marian Jurečka. The guy a few months ago, I learned that now -- you know, I served in an ambulance, I had a night shift on Sundays -- and they came to me, saying, Milan, that's pretty cool. We follow him, he promises us a mountain downstairs and he'll make his mouth a musculus orbicularis oris, make me decent - make a tearing calendar. He's gonna say, "Yeah, it's gonna be all right." Here he stood, and we had so little, so close, so little just to agree to this legislative technical change, he stood here and talked to them - mountain rescuers and paramedics: Yeah, that's what I'm gonna do by the end of the holidays. You know what? He didn't do anything. He's not even here, and he hasn't done anything. It's probably going to be placed on the center of the government. But you know what? All of you - listen - all of you who raised your hand for this last term and wanted to, could go five years into early retirement without sanctions, so do you know what he made of it? He lied. He lied to them that it would be, only he would present it and better. He's narrowing it down to two and a half years... I mean, that's... Listen, just so you know who he is, and I know the information from the Minister of Health. These are 72 60s, especially women who have become 60s last year, but none of them know yet if they will complete the 36,000 hours of service. So basically, it's an estimate of 50 people, just like 50 refugees who ride and mess around on the Slovak-Slovak border. But these people don't make a mess. Fifty people! And these fifty people - we said to them last time: We will give you, we will not sanction you for those 3,000 crowns - that is the difference between early and normal retirement - CZK 3,000, 50 times 3,000 times 12 years - please, that is CZK 1,800,000. This is politics, this is literally charity these days. It's hard for you to bring it here, Mr. Jurečka, which you're not even here, and you're even making it shorter. So you don't want to give 1,800,000 to people who... They're probably gonna stay there anyway, but if they can't, this is a budget item... That's a real insult to those people who have helped so many people not to have to stay on the pavement so they don't have to look for jobs on their old knees, deliver rolls when they can resuscitate their entire lives. So you're not even able to vote here. And we had that chance. Mr. Výborný is ready to fire on me. I think he'll defend his chairman. Hail all you want. He's got a ripping calendar out of his mouth. It doesn't promise anything, and even if it promises it, it's wrong and then it changes - that's the result in the eKLEP that the government is supposed to deal with on Wednesday. And when I look at the Home Secretary here, he even said, "Fuck the cops, firefighters." I just don't want them to be retired early because they have pre-departments. Yes, that's right, they have early pensions -- sorry -- they have a retainer, that's more money. But a few people are also involved. It's a handful of people, maybe five, ten. But he told his Members, don't do it, I don't want it, I don't want it. I don't want to! I know that. You're talking to me here. I know you can't stand the truth, but your colleagues said so. [[Minister Austrian responds.]] All right, then your MPs lied when they told me - we can't do it, the minister doesn't want it, because a few policemen, firefighters, they'd like to be there, cops, firefighters, too, a few people who aren't in office, and they don't have that service. In other words - I'm not going to stretch it out anymore: 1,800,000 a year for probably less than fifty rescuers, one of them maybe one of the mountain and the rest of the 49 medical - so this is politics. If I were rude, and I would like to say something, I won't do it, but men, women, you in those ambulances, don't let them, do it, be next, be part of the people who are dissatisfied, because this government doesn't deserve you to thank them for anything at all. Hang on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u17	Mr. Ambassador, you didn't say the important thing during your performance - what's the point called, and if you want a solid assignment. I tried to listen very carefully. [[- You're right.]] I hope I didn't just miss it, I don't want to blame you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u18	Yes, you're right, I was kidnapped. I know what I'm talking about, so I was kidnapped, so I'm sorry. I don't even know where to put it, 'cause if I put it somewhere, you're gonna say no. So help me, you coalitions, where we'll put it so you can let it pass.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u19	Please design the name of the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u20	I'm just thinking out loud where to put it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u21	Well, then you have a chance to think... We've been acting since 2:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u22	But I have time for that, don't I? Do I have time for this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u23	Please, please, say the name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u24	Let me finish, Madam President, please let me finish. Give me some advice, tell me, you who understand, where would you like to put it? Last one? He's not gonna get it. First? There's no point. Give me the ninth, that's a pretty nice number. The ninth point of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u25	Okay, ninth point of today's meeting. And you still haven't said the name, but it says here on your paramedics pension application. So that's what we're gonna call it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u26	Just like you read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u27	Okay. And I'd like us to know what we're proposing next time before we approach the microphone. Thank you. Mr President Výborný and Mrs Dostálová will wait a little longer. Please. The Minister is still applying with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u28	Madam President, Dear House, I am very sorry, because I am going to perform here now in the light of the fact that Minister Marian Jurečka is not present, and I know that this does not belong here at this time, but I think it is only necessary to respond to the sum of theatrical untruths that have been mentioned here. Of course, Minister Jurečka didn't break anything. The proposal for early retirement for rescue workers will be tomorrow, as may have been said here, and I can confirm it, will be discussed by the government tomorrow, and in the nearest possible term, everyone, including Mr Brázdil, will be able to vote here. I think if we weren't just before some elections, we might be able to save these speeches here. But please, let some elementary dignity of this House be preserved and there are things that are truly true here. Thank you. Nor are the statements that have been made in the direction of police officers or firefighters true, and that is probably what Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan will be talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u29	Which is currently being reported with priority rights as well. Only the Member who wants to sign up with the facts - I must point out that we are not in the debate, so it is not possible to make factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will also avoid some theatricality that the colleague here has been showing for a long time, and I will deal with the facts. As President Výborný has already said, the proposal - here I have the material - goes to the government meeting tomorrow. So I really don't know what Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka didn't do. He did everything as he said. We have a month of September, and in the month of September, this material goes to the government for discussion. It is therefore a matter which - at the will of the Chamber of Deputies - the opposition will certainly show in these appeals. Then we can discuss the proposal quickly. And, of course, this desired benefit will get to the rescue workers with a better, more elaborate government proposal, as promised. It's just a question of some technical debate here on a level. And if you're defaming me here that I forbade anything from my MPs -- well, I say you're lying, and I can even defend that word. And I would just like to say to you that, in the context of a commentary procedure, and we will certainly deal with this tomorrow in the government, the Ministry of the Interior has given a reminder that risk criteria can be established, and other activities associated with excessive stress and objectively and fairly ensure the possibility of early retirement for risk professions, which in this case and in the context of this comment by the Ministry of the Interior also concerns the police officers mentioned by you. Tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, but next time, please address yourself through the President. Now it is Mrs Dostálová's turn, followed by Mrs Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is basically nothing left for me but to try again and again to read the point that is devoted to housing costs. If the Ministry of Regional Development were to take action, I would of course not have to do this here, but if we include this point, the House can adopt a resolution and impose certain tasks on the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that it would have to fulfil. [[15.10 hours]] For example, currently mortgages are very burdensome for most families whose fixations have ended. We're picking up an extreme drop in the first and second quarters of 2022. Combined with energy, this is a significant threat to housing itself, which is why it would be worth talking about some systemic steps that can be done relatively quickly, and it would help people in the area of housing. For example, in MMR, it would be worth it to start dealing with banks immediately with multigenerational mortgages with a maturity of 40 years, because such a mortgage, if you have, for example, a 2+kk apartment in Prague, you are paying a mortgage of about 15,000 a month, so forty years, the payment would fall somewhere to CZK 8,000, CZK 8,500. This is immediate important assistance to young families. Another important aid - and this is where the state really remains - is quickly on the land of the state and municipalities to start cooperative construction. Young people really don't have a place to live. The situation is becoming very difficult, but imagine that the Ministry of Regional Development had a subsidy programme for cooperative participation in my work, and the Minister has stopped this programme - nowadays, when young people have nowhere to live, and it is cooperative construction that should be a priority. The third such package of activities could be - everyone living in the countryside, we know that there are many multigenerational houses in the countryside, a really large number of post-communist times. One senior or two seniors live in these multigenerational houses, yet it would be enough. Mr. Minister, because the refugee program didn't quite take over, 900 million is about 190 million, so he has the money, and he doesn't have to go to the Ministry of Finance, and it would be enough to give these seniors or those who live in multigenerational homes a few crowns to make their own entrances, their own social facilities, and at that moment, of course, young people would respond immediately and would like to move to the countryside to have a place to live. And the last program that MMR once again has in the drawer is just not being realized is: the Ministry has a subsidy program to support interest on loans if they reach more than 5%. Well, of course, that's what all the loans are doing today, so I think the MMR can activate it immediately, but nothing's happening. That is why I would like to propose this point as the first point of today's negotiations and, of course, standards for housing should also be discussed, but here in the media space, I have perceived that something is already happening, but really, increasing the standards for housing is another real help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. Mrs Věra Adámková is also signed in and followed by Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know how to explain the importance of doing something to save people's lives, especially children. I appreciate many of you very much for your personal attitudes and for your human attitudes, our different political views are needed within the diversity of opinions, and that's right, we have such pluralism, just wondering which one of you really wants children to die of acute leukemia. Can somebody look me in the eye and say, "I want it?" Because the fact that you're not still voting to discuss an amendment to the transplant law that would alleviate - which is really very strict there, we just forgot about an anonymous bone marrow donor - please, do you want it? Do me a favor, go to your constituents and tell them, "No, I'm not going to vote for it, no matter what Adámková says there - I don't want to help those kids, I don't want to help leukemia. And believe me, it's not theoretical, it's the practice that showed us this. You're currently reading in the paper that there and there - and they're really crappy cases of little children - the baby has acute leukemia, but really, we checked out of the registers by some donors, because they just have to pay bills, and if they were sick, they don't have a mortgage on them, either. Please, consider all your personal attitudes, look your constituents, children, old people in the eye, and tell them why you do not vote in favour of making it very simply this uncontroversial, non-political law, which only builds donors - voluntary anonymous donors, I warn - bone marrow equal to other donors of transplantable organs and tissues. I really don't get it, I don't know why these decent people I'm talking to here, they're pretending they don't know what I'm talking about. And I really don't know which one of you wants those kids to die. Consider it with your conscience, and believe me, it may not give absolution or a vicar in a very, very important confession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u35	Madam, I'm just gonna make sure that's what it says in that application, first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u36	Madam President, exactly as I said, after the points that have been firmly placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u37	First point on the fixed points, thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Jana Pastuchová, who has two applications in a row, so it is possible in one speech and therefore followed by Mr Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a pre-election - I have two applications, so I will take it at once - the House of Presses, the House Press 234 and the House Press 233. The House Press 233 is designed by our Members and it is a one-off contribution to pensioners of 6 000, and I will then tell you why, and the House Press 234, which is an amendment to state social support, which is an increase in parental contribution from 300 to 400 000. And I'd like to say this in advance before I can justify it, I'd like to place it on the fixed points today, first reading... [[He's turning to the chair.]] First reading, 'cause I think there's three of them. [[- Yes.]] So as the next point after the fixed first reading points, because it's the first reading, and I'd really like that. What makes me say that? I'm always saying that I may be a bit of a masochist here, but I'm really looking at the events at 10:00 p.m., watching the debates on Sunday and yesterday, I think it was evening or I don't know, there was an honored colleague on the talk show, through you, Marek Benda, where they were talking about, of course, the distribution of society through campaigns, strikes or demonstrations, and the editor was asking if they shouldn't stick together right now. I think so, but my colleague said that we don't bring a solution - or in that sense, I don't know exactly the quote. And I'm assigning these points because these points are designed by us so that they can now and immediately help our citizens, young families, to whom really, as colleagues here have also spoken, and include those points in the program... energy crises, mortgages, end fixations. I'm dealing with it today and every day, you're all running, you're running for municipal elections, I'm sure you've got your meetings, your actions, so I think it's the voters, I don't know if it's you, but I'm sure that tells us what we're gonna do about it. So I place these two points. And on top of that $6,000 contribution to our seniors. Mr. Jurečka, or I don't know if it's real, but there's a letter running through social networks to our seniors, how much they've been added that they're now from 1. 1. 2023 raises 500 crowns for each raised child. That's fine, Mr. Jurečka signed it as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which is not his credit, it's the credit of the previous government, but well - if he praises, then we can help now and now. We can approve this, and it doesn't have to be the government - we're gonna take her off the job, she can deal with the energy crisis, because these two laws, the proposals are set up there, and they're just waiting for you to approve them for the program. Minister Jurečka, through you, still praises himself, or even colleagues who perform, how much they have done for people. I'm not saying they prepared it, but the complexity of the draw is a little different - even with you still praised one-time child allowance of CZK 5,000, when it was supposed to have children for school supplies. But there's 30 days waiting, I guess, and now moms are coming, they're waiting a long time. Even if they asked for it on time, they wait a long time. I know something's been going on somewhere, something's gone wrong, and that can happen, but we're offering a solution here. [[15.20 hours]] And I did it for one more reason. I wanted to place the third point - I will explain why these two points. I read a post on social media that made me feel a little sad because the person who wrote it is sitting here between us, and I'm going to read you one part. If you feel like those poor people on Wenceslas are normal people like you, don't be fooled. It's the patriotic fifth column waving the Czech flag and bulging Russian propaganda. This statement by you, Prime Minister Fiala, said that he said who called it. Now he's apologizing about what he's... But here it is: "If you feel like those poor people on Wenceslas are normal people like you." This is true of all estimated 70,000 people. I don't know who was there. I know I got married on Friday, and there was a bus leaving our town that went to Wenceslas Square. I knew these people, and they were really normal decent people who just went to express their disagreement with wanting the government to deal with what they had and to help them quickly. So that's why I put the two first readings forward so that we can respond to helping the government when it calls on us to stick together, so we bring in two proposals: one-time allowance to pensioners of 6,000 and as quickly as possible increase parents from 300 to 400 thousand. And I told you the assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u39	Thank you, too. I'm registering both requests for a pre-schedule. Mr Richard Brabec is also signed in and followed by Mr Tureček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u40	Thanks for the word. Madam President, dear government, colleagues, and I have been coming to this counter for several times with the same point, and I always secretly hope to convince or soften you, because I think that this point is completely in line with the very greatest, let's say, priorities not only for this government, but for this whole country, that is, how to secure additional funding for the state budget in terms of, say, softening or reducing the effects of crazy energy prices for both companies and residents. This is the House press 154, which I have presented several times, and it is specifically a change to the Act on emission allowance trading. We've been talking about emission allowances a lot, and I'm sure those of you who are interested in the subject, you know, there's a few options to do with emission allowances. One of these options is longer at European level, where it is, of course, more complicated. So even in this case, the government is not doing as I would have imagined, but I think we can agree that this point or this solution would be at least for months. However, there is a much faster solution, which I have proposed since December last year and which would allow the state budget of the Czech Republic to receive some of the money from emission allowances that are currently going to the Modernization Fund. And these emission allowances, when profits from their sales are currently flowing into the Modernization Fund, so of course, part of it could be redirected to the state budget. Why? Because once the Modernisation Fund has taken them away, they will never recover them, or the possibility of using money from the Modernisation Fund is severely limited, because the use of the money is, of course, not only the Czech Republic, the Czech Government, but also the European Investment Bank decides on them, the European Commission decides on them and any changes in the principles and functioning of the Modernization Fund are, of course, subject to a number of approvals at different levels, and here it can be at least six months, but rather longer. That is why I suggested that part of the emission allowances that would normally flow to the Modernization Fund be earmarked from this flow and could go straight to the state budget, and that, of course, at that point, this money could be used. That is also the point of the amendment that the purposeful binding of the revenues from the auctions of emission allowances would be extended by measures that can be used to mitigate the social effects of high energy prices, and of course it could also be used for companies, not just for residents. That is why I am very surprised that the government and, in general, let's say, five-calices have long resisted this possibility of freeing tens of billions of crowns that would be released into the state budget in this way. Moreover, we are only talking about two years in this proposal. Because I suggested it at the end of 2021, we're talking about 2022 and 2023 here, and only half of the new allowances that are going to the Modernization Fund today would go into the state budget, and that's just part of the allowances. In other words, this is the answer to the concerns of entrepreneurs and certain Members that there would not be enough money to invest in the Modernisation Fund, so I want to assure everyone that there would still be much more than originally foreseen, because originally the Modernisation Fund expected CZK 150 billion by 2030, today, according to the emission allowance price, the amount could increase to CZK 300, 400 billion or more. This means that there would still be substantially more than was calculated and, above all, the money could be used earlier and also in a way that would actually prevent a situation where many of these businesses will not even live to invest their projects from the Modernisation Fund, because it will be due to high energy prices by then. And the Modernization Fund, as designed, does not allow the money to be used precisely for direct operating support. It is, of course, an investment fund. So this allows the government and the Chamber of Deputies to deal much better with the money that will accumulate there in huge amounts in the coming years, hundreds of billions of crowns, and I really do not understand why the government and the five-wheelers are so opposed. So this is my proposal, i.e. the House Press 154, the amendment to the Act on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, and I would like that point to be included as the second point after the already fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u41	Thank you, too. So now Mr Tureček will speak, and Mrs Válková will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to address you with a proposal to include a new point, namely Price regulation of food in the Czech Republic. These main arguments lead me to this proposal: When I look at eight basic foods that are most consumed within the consumer basket - flour, oil, butter, sugar, bread, milk, chicken, eggs and pigmeat - we have reached a high rate of inflation that does not copy average inflation in the Czech Republic compared to last July. For example, flour has increased by 74 percent over this period of one year, oil by 68 percent, butter by 67 percent, sugar by 51 percent, milk by 40 percent, chicken by 39 percent, eggs by 33 percent and pig meat by 33 percent. I would like to warn you once again that, of course, this growth in food prices is not ending. As you have noticed, virtually at this point, prices in the field of plant commodities for these basic commodities range from 50 to 70 percent, whereas for animal commodities they are between 30 and 40 percent. [[15.30 hours]] In other words, it can be assumed that in the second half of this year there will be a further increase in prices, especially animal commodities, which will continue to grow. First of all. Secondly, with a certain inertia, which, to some extent at this point, is slowing the price of food from the point of view of the consumer basket, it is relatively low, or seasonal, price of fruit and vegetables. This, of course, will cease to apply during October and November, and, for a change, vegetables and fruit will become commodities that will push up food prices in the consumer basket. I have mentioned here several times that, of course, the recipes are quite clear. The countries of the European Union are practically on the way, in particular, to reducing value added tax. In this respect, I believe that Poland and Italy have acted in this way. However, it's nothing unusual. In a similar way, the Czech Republic, for example, followed in 1993, when the new VAT Act was defined. After a thorough discussion, the government eventually chose a rate of 5 per cent VAT for all basic foods, which means low. Up to an increased VAT rate of 21 percent, she only gave luxury caviar-type foods and so on. Second thing. When we discussed the VAT increase in food in 2010 from 5 to 15 percent, then the government ODS itself proposed to define a group of roughly nine basic foods, which would have just kept VAT 5% and did not increase to 15 percent. So there is nothing unusual about the simple reduction in VAT from 15 percent to 0 to 5 percent in Italy, Poland, but also in recent Klausův and Nečasův governments. The second issue, which can be treated in this way by price regulation of food, is, of course, the price ceiling again for basic foods such as flour, oil, butter, sugar, milk, chicken meat, eggs and pigmeat. Last but not least, it is the control of margins and price regulation, that is, the control of entry prices, in this case in particular energy prices, gas and of course - for agricultural commodities for the coming period it will be a big problem especially in plant production - the price of industrial fertilisers. I have also said that the government should take advantage of its role under the Presidency of the European Union. Within the European Commission and the Council of Agriculture Ministers, it should try to re-define price regulation and regulation in the field of basic agricultural commodities. Because, as I have mentioned several times, this reform, for example, was implemented in the early 1990s and does not really reflect price developments in agricultural commodities. Here I will mention, for example, the lower limit of the price of wheat, where the lower limit for state intervention is set within the European Union at EUR 103 per tonne, which is, of course, in some form of conversion of approximately CZK 2,500, a ridiculous price which, of course, would not have worked at all in this case, because if today the price is set somewhere at CZK 8, 9, 10 000 per tonne, the minimum price of CZK 2,500 is already survived. So for this reason, I am addressing you with a request for a new point, namely Price Control of Food. I propose the inclusion of this item on Friday 9 September as the first item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u43	Thank you, too. Have a good afternoon. We will continue with the proposals for the draft programme. Mrs Helena Válková is now on the list and Mr Juchelka is on the list. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will take advantage of this opportunity to follow up on our previous speakers and previous speakers. For example, there was talk of a very acute current amendment to the transplant law. My colleague, Mrs Adámková, by your means, Madam Vice-President, in a relatively emotional, strong speech, pointed out that this is a novel that would probably not cost us so much time, and not work at all. It's not a complicated novel, but it can cost the health of children she sees herself, she has them in the care of as a doctor, so I will, of course, join you. Even the point I want to point out actually follows. But, fortunately, in quotation marks, there are only vulnerable children, or not even at risk children, but children who do not have the opportunity to participate in their rights as permitted by our Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and in particular the European Convention and Conventions at UN level. It's not surprising. It is a point that was included in this meeting - nevertheless I saw it there in the current programme - on the 35th meeting from 6 September. I'm just gonna keep the promise I made to kids and kids under the age of 18. I must say that they are most involved - and we should probably not stop or wonder - of the 17-year-olds who will be potential voters in a year. They're also the smartest, most emancipated. It is the establishment of a separate institution for child rights defenders in the Czech Republic. It is Parliamentary press number 262, on which - for this I thank the government - the government took a neutral position on 29 July of this year. I thank the media that they are constantly, continuously paying sufficient attention to this issue. I must say that the compliment from my mouth to the media is more or less exceptional, and in this respect, regardless of the medium, I must say that she asked all the right questions, she wanted to see the differences between the different ways of setting up this institution. I thank them very much for this, and I hope that they will follow this further action with equal attention, objectively and correctly and then mediate to our citizens and citizens. [[15.40 hours]] I also wanted to comment on this point because I have here the opinion of the Parliament of children and youth of the Czech Republic, which is based on... I will read it this way, it is one sentence: "We, elected representatives of secondary school students, multi-annual grammar schools, conservatoires, secondary vocational schools and members of participation structures in the Czech Republic, present this document as a reaction to government approved" - so they did not say exactly, the government took note of it, took a neutral position, as I said a moment ago - "the bill on the establishment of an institution of a child Ombudsman in the Czech Republic." And they point out that - they put it that way again, they are 16 or 17 years old - this institution must be created as a separate institution in order to fulfil an agenda, which they are already well aware that it is an agenda that only partially concerns the current Ombudsman's agenda, and there is very much missing from the question of participation in the enforcement of its rights. And, of course, they are also aware that there are extensive powers to appeal to the Constitutional Court if a new law, legislation, their rights are not sufficiently protected, request its annulment, or even in custody proceedings, there is an opportunity to enter into such custody proceedings for the benefit of an endangered child, or even to make a motion for initiation. In other words, if you allow me to do so, I will introduce you to this in more detail, so if this is discussed in the foreseeable future, even in the foreseeable future, in any case, not now, I do not want to delay. One thing is quite obvious, we should open the debate. When I read that they might propose the establishment of digital agencies here and so on in the order of billions of crowns, I think that by arguing that several million crowns to set up what children and young people already want in the long run - you know that it was pending in the past period - and this bill already respects the comments of the current Ombudsman's Office, or so we have changed it in this respect, it would be beyond that. So the financial question here probably doesn't play a role as if it were playing in the past, given that we have reduced some of the functions and that, therefore, more financially demanding institutions are being proposed, for which we will certainly still be discussing. So I propose that you have heard the opinion of the Parliament of children and youth. I would still take this opportunity to correct what was said here, because it almost lifted me from the chair - luckily, President Tomio Okamura, President of the SPD, promptly sought the record, a copy of my speech when I was talking about the draft law on a national referendum, where I was supposed to say that I did not agree with him anymore, and I thank him that he acknowledged that this was not an entirely accurate statement. I will always be in favour of the national referendum law, but in a reasonable form, and I did not find it reasonable, so I said my negative position in order to allow the vote to be voted on as well as the withdrawal from the EU. And that was the content of the amendment -- sorry, the proposal prepared by the SPD. So, yes, reasonable, as the House press from the past period, 100, the proposal for a national referendum was certainly, from my point of view, less reasonable - for example, allowing me to vote on the withdrawal from the EU - I set aside against this. And that's also in the log. Conclusion: I will have a little harder here because, of course, at the moment - I listened carefully to the speeches made by my colleagues and colleagues and certainly the amendments they proposed to discuss the mitigation of the socio-economic effects of the current energy crisis have priority. And perhaps children and young people will understand that that is why I propose that point, which means a proposal for a new child rights protector law, after these points, if they pass. And I certainly do not have to explain why I would like it to be entirely preferred to discuss the proposal for an amendment to the transplant law, as Mrs Adámková proposed here. So I'm going to try, Madam Vice-President, to formulate - you're going to correct me so that it's right. I would like to propose that point, the Parliamentary press 262, to include those points which will be firmly included, while respecting the pre-position of the points that were specifically presented here by my colleague Adámková, Dostálová, Pastuchová and colleagues Havlíček and Brabec. I consider them absolutely crucial. Is it okay to process, technically, or do I have to formulate it differently, Madam Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u45	It means, if I understand correctly, if the points of your colleagues you mentioned are firmly included, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u46	After them, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u47	After them. Please, if you could just give me the names, but I think - you can just repeat it to me - it's my colleague Pastuchová, my colleague Brabec...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u48	It goes with the proposal of my colleague Adámková, Dostálová, Pastuchová and colleagues - or Members - Havlíček and Brabec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u49	Thank you very much. And now I will ask Mr Juchelka to make his proposal, Mr králíček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I have two suggestions. The first one is the House press number 231, it is the bill on mobility. In 2018 mobility for disabled people was increased here, the last time it was from CZK 400 to CZK 550 in 2018, but at this time 550 CZK is no longer enough, we have here this House Press 231 already as part of this Chamber of Deputies after the government's position has been given, so I suggest that this point, House Press 231, be included here after the firmly placed points for today. Then I have a point called the current situation in social services. There, of course, we see that regions and municipalities should actually finance social services instead of the state. At this point, we are in the budget of this financing of CZK 3.2 billion. The Association of Regions and the Association of Social Services Providers wants CZK 4.5 billion, and I would very much like that, because we have a whole range of mayors and some officers here to comment on whether - or are they in the leadership of the regions, such as Deputy Governor Vondrák Mr. Navrátil - how they will conceive or finance social services this very year, because the 3.2 billion will definitely not be enough, and I would like to place this as the first point on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u51	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And now, before I give the floor to my colleague Králíček, I will read the apologies. Radim Fiala apologizes for working reasons from 14 to 18, Mr Nacher from 15.30 to 19 for working reasons, Mr Salvetr from 16 to 23.59 hours for working reasons today, Pavel Staněk apologises from 16 to 17 hours for working reasons, and Mr Špičák apologises from 16 to 23.59 hours for working reasons. Members of the government apologize to Vít Rakušan from 14 to 14.30 for working reasons and Minister Válek from 15.30 to 2359 for working reasons. Next, I have another message, Minister Stanjura votes with a replacement card number 28. And now, Mr králíček, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u52	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to address the proposal to include a new point with my evergreen, and this is the fight against misinformation. I was evacuated by the speech of the Home Secretary last week, when he spoke of the fact that there was nothing to do with the fight against misinformation in the last parliamentary term. I don't think that's so true...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u53	Colleagues, colleagues, please listen to your club Member. Thank you. I'm asking you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u54	I remembered a Czech film... I'll wait, I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u55	Sorry, sorry about that. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for continuing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u56	I will, you've upset me a little bit, Madam Vice-President. [[I'm sorry.]] It's okay. Anyway, to get back to it. I wanted to respond to the Minister's speech. I just wanted to say that I don't think anything has been done, because I think he kind of kicked his colleagues, when we set up a committee for hybrid threats across the political spectrum, which I would say - and now I'm going to poke - more often than this election period, so I think that even colleagues from the government coalition have done a lot of work there. And I would like to ask the Minister a few questions at an open point, which you will certainly approve, because perhaps the current chairman of the Security Committee and others - Mr Bartošek, Mrs Langšádlová - have prepared a series of recommendations and there was a rather comprehensive document that was sent to both the previous government and the current government, and I think that the government could certainly have relied on it. I don't know how much of this is coming from. There were things about education that concerned security, and you are constantly talking about the fact that the Ministry of the Interior, or CTHH, is preparing a law. It's like Mrs. Columbová. Nobody's seen him, nobody's heard of him, we haven't heard from Mr. Klíma. So I would like to, because I think that this is a really serious topic, and I note that I am not running anywhere, so it is not some pre-election topic, because we do not have a problem with misinformation in Prague 4, so it is definitely not a campaign. But I think the subject is just serious and it should open up here because there's no talk of it at all, and I want it to be talked about, which is why I keep coming up with that point. And I think that - and my colleagues will definitely backstage confirm that to me, and they're definitely not gonna make it up like it was a while ago - that we just agreed there across the political spectrum, because it wasn't a political issue, it's not a political issue. But since the beginning of the parliamentary term, when my colleague Nacher and I have been coming here almost regularly, and we want to include that point, we have not succeeded. So I'm probably gonna be here every meeting with a fairy tale or rather the same content, and I'm hoping that the President will chair it because I like it with her, and I'm gonna beg to include the fight against misinformation. I wrote on that application as item number 3, but I'd like to change it so it's item number 11 of this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u57	So let me just get this straight, not point 3, as you have in your application, but point 11. Thank you. Minister Rakušan would like to speak with priority, and before I give him my word, Mr. Václav Král apologizes from 16:00 to 23.59 hours for reasons of work. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u58	This is where my colleague králíček set me up. I don't need him yet. So I think I came at the right time, I was excused between 14 and 14.30, and there were three suggestions for a point where I'd be happy to respond, and here, in a matter of fact, without anything else. The Security Council of the State discussed an analysis of the Czech Republic's readiness to face misinformation. The Government of the Czech Republic has already taken note of this material, but the Ministry of the Interior has come up with a series of specific tasks resulting from this for individual departments. We want to discuss these at the next State Security Council. I want the government to approve material that will no longer be merely an analysis, but it will result in direct tasks for individual departments. Surely what Members were working on is also being incorporated there, which is what the analysis was based on as such. And then at that moment, when the government approves, I want to present this as a comprehensive material to the Chamber of Deputies. I think the procedure is pretty logical. I myself admit that I have already proposed some tasks in the first meeting of the government, but at that first stage the government approved only the analysis itself. I have finally taken note of this, but on the autumn Security Council of the state it will also be discussed with specific tasks, the government and then the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u59	Thank you, Minister, and now I have Mr Nacher's application, but I do not see him here, so his application is forfeit. Is there anyone else here who's proposing amendments to the agenda for the meeting? It's not like that. I don't see anyone. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. Mr. Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u60	I'm very sorry, Madam Vice-President, I'd like to take a break at the club meeting for those votes now on the agenda, by 4:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u61	Yes, I'm declaring a break until 4:00 p.m. at the KDU-ČSL club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u62	Dear colleagues, we will continue after the break. We will now proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. First, we will vote on proposals from the Gremium. I'm going to sign you off on request, and I'm going to ask you to log in with your ID cards again. We'll wait a while for the number of entries to settle. I will repeat once again that we will vote first on proposals from the Gremium. If there is no objection, we will vote on proposals from the Gremium at once. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 161 Members and Members signed up, for 161, against no one. The motion was accepted. And now we will vote on the other proposals tabled, first of all on the proposal by President Okamura, which proposes a new point called Škodlivá Pura's government does not address the expensive and should submit a resignation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 71, versus 86. The proposal was rejected and therefore we will not vote on solid inclusion. I would also like to point out: please, those who have put forward their proposals to monitor the content of the proposals so that if there is any error, you can correct them. Thank you. [[Here comes Mrs Karla Maríková.]] Yes, please? To the vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u63	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I voted in favour of this vote, but I have "stayed" at the high school. I therefore do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u64	Yes, just for the record. Let's keep going. We will now vote on Mr Okamura's proposal, which proposes a new point called Prime Minister Fiala of the ODS falsely and arrogantly accused and insulted up to 100,000 citizens. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered 160, for 67, versus 83. The motion was denied. Mr Okamura's proposal again. The new point proposed is called the Fialův Government not defend Czech interests, but is a vassal of Brussels and Berlin. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 161 Members and Members signed up, for 16, against 87. The motion was denied. The next proposal is again Mr Okamura's proposal. He's proposing a new point called Reparation for the Nazi occupation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 15, against 82. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the proposal by President Excellent, which proposes paragraph 34, the House's press 287, which is the Government's bill on the right to digital services. He proposes to include him as the third point for today after paragraphs 26 and 32. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 84, against 17. The motion was accepted. Now for the vote, Minister Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u65	Madam President, I am not questioning vote number four, but I voted against, and I have a say in high school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u66	Thank you. And now we will vote on the excellent President's proposal. He proposes item 165, House press 281, which is a proposal on the operation of the Ministry of Defence forces in foreign operations. He's suggesting we put him on Wednesday 7. 9. as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed in, for 144, against 15. The motion was accepted. We are now voting on the proposal from Vice-President Havlíček. It proposes a new point of Cropping energy prices and further support. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 161 Members and Members signed up, for 75, against 82. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Vondráček's proposal. It proposes a new item entitled Information of the Government on the current state of illegal migration in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 160 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 79. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Brázdil's proposal. He's proposing a new item called the Rescue Retirement. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 74, against 45. The motion was denied. [[16.10 hours]] Now, Mrs Dostálová's proposal. It proposes a new point called Rising Housing Costs. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 75, against 48. The motion was denied. Now, Mrs Adámková's proposal. It proposes item number 74, House press 162, the transplant law, to put the first point on today after the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 161 Members and Members, in favour of 75, against 10. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mrs Pastuchová's proposal. It proposes item 83, House press 234, State aid law, to include the first point after fixed points, that is to say, points 26 and 32. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 161 Members and Members, in favour of 74, against 18. The motion was denied. Mrs Pastuchová also proposes item 82, House press 233, a one-off contribution to pensioners in 2022, following the fixed points as a second point today. Is that okay, madam? [[Mrs Pastuch is showing a switch.]] Respectfully, that's the first point, okay? [[Mrs Pastuch agrees.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 74, against 18. The motion was denied. And now we will vote on Mr Brabec's proposal, which proposes item 72, House press 154, which is the amendment to Act No. 383/2012, emission allowances, rank as the second point today after already fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 162 Members of Parliament signed up, for 74, against 40. The motion was denied. And now, Mr Turek's proposal, which proposes a new point on the price regulation of food in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 162 Members and Members of Parliament signed in, for 74, against 73. The motion was denied. Now, Mrs Válková's proposal. It proposes item 91, Parliament's Press 262, the Act on Children's Rights, to include as already firmly classified points. The Member wanted this to be rejected after the proposals of Members Adámková, Dostálová, Pastuchová, Havlíček and Brabec, or for the already firmly placed points. Yes? May I do this? [[Member of the War agrees.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 18, 162 Members of Parliament signed in for 73, versus 38. The motion was denied. We are now going to vote on Mr Juchelka's proposal, which proposes item 80, House press 231, to include the Mobility Act, following the firmly placed points today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 19, 162 Members and Members, in favour of 75, against 14. The motion was denied. And now again, Mr Juchelka's proposal, which proposes to include a new point, which is the current situation in social services. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 20, 162 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 76, against 29. The motion was denied. And now, Mr Králíček's proposal, which proposes to include a new item entitled Fighting Disinformation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 162 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 29. The motion was denied. And now, because we have dealt with all the proposals for amendments, we will be voting on the whole proposal for the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing and adapted by approved amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 162 Members and Members voted in favour of 144, against 1. The proposal was adopted, so the agenda was approved. And with priority rights, Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I couldn't be here at the beginning of today's meeting because I was still at the resort for work reasons, but I noticed a debate here that also related to the speed and administration of payment of a 500-thousand-dollar contribution to my parents. [[16.20 hours]] So I just want to say that 240 000 children were paid automatically in excess of CZK 1.2 billion, 321 000 applications are paid or sent as payment orders, which means, again, it is roughly twice as many children, and the total amount of applications that have come into the application and which we have collected is 535 000. 415 000 was submitted through the portal and application of Jenda and 120 000 through applications before the Czech POINTs, a total of 834 000 children, plus another 240,000 over child allowance. That means there are over one million kids here today who have already received the funds, their parents, or are on their way. So really...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u68	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you for a moment, and I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep their voice down so they can listen to your comment they asked about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u69	Thank you. So it really isn't appropriate to say that something isn't working or has delays - 687 applications were sent to the applicants for repair, 228 denied, 591 stopped. Alternatively, I am prepared to add more answers specifically during Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-000-000.u70	Thank you, Minister. And now, before we open the first point of our negotiations, I will read the apology. Today, from 16:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Mr Adamec apologizes without giving any reason. And now we're going to go with point number
