ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal by Members of Ivan Adamec, Radim Fiala, Roman Kubíček, Michal Kučera, Ondřej Lochman and Antonín Tesařík to issue a law amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 382/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Resources and on the Amendment of Certain Acts, as amended /German Press 186/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. The Government's position was delivered as House Press 186/1. I now ask Mr Ivan Adamec to present the proposal as the appellant. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the proposal of our Members for a law amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 382/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended. I'd like you to listen to me. It's not exactly a simple matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u3	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, I understand. I will ask all those who do not wish to address this point or have discussions on another subject to leave the O.R. as far as possible and to calm down. Hang in there, Mr. Ambassador. We wait until that happens, and the room will be quiet, including cell phones not ringing. [[There's a phone ringing in the right side of the hall.]] Please let someone take the phone. Ambassador, I think you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, co-workers, co-workers, I'm just saying this so you don't have to ask too many questions and we don't have to spend the whole night here. The aim of the proposal is to complement the producer, importer and supplier of biomass fuels between the obliged entities for demonstrating sustainability criteria and to enable them to demonstrate compliance with an honest declaration and to apply a transitional period where the fulfilment of the criteria can be considered as such by the end of 2022. The aim, once again, is, in my view, the aim of this very simple parliamentary initiative, by the way, signed by representatives of all Members' clubs, except the Pirates Club, who have more or less agreed with this proposed amendment, is to respond to the European Commission's not yet published implementing acts to verify sustainability criteria for biomass, and to extend the period until the end of this year, when compliance with sustainability criteria can be demonstrated in the Czech Republic by an honest declaration instead of a full verification, for which legislative assumptions are still not established at European Union level. In fact, this creates conditions for continuing support for the production of electricity and heat from biomass by the end of this year. I will try to translate it, who may not understand what I'm saying here, and I would ask you to really follow me, because if we fail to approve this amendment today in the accelerated version, we are going to have a very big problem in this area. [[Those]] It's very simple. In fact, we have only approved the amendment here in the last parliamentary term, where we said that actually producers and importers and biomass fuel operators and the support of biomass as such must be verified by 30. This year's 6th, and according to the acts that the European Commission will simply give us. The government has committed itself to those entrepreneurs, that this will be the case and that they will be able to continue receiving public support. Unfortunately, this did not happen and could not happen, because the European Commission simply did not issue the documents. I will read here when the European Commission is actually writing to us on 8 March of this year and admitting that there has been a delay in the declared acts, and it also recognises the need to postpone the application of biomass sustainability criteria by six months. This means that this position of the European Commission is perfectly in line with the draft law that we are presenting to you here at the moment. I must say that the amendment is to take effect on the day following the date of its publication in the Collection of Laws, its approval is proposed at the first reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2. I'll explain later. There is no impact on public budgets or on state budgets. It meets all the criteria that we always assess here when submitting every law, and the impact on the business middle is only positive. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Industry and Trade agreed, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development welcomed the Czech Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic. Although the government had a reminder that the extension of the time when only an honest statement could be made is not entirely in line with what it would have imagined, what this amendment should look like, however, if you read into a government statement, you will find that this expression may seem a bit like an expression of a clever hobby, that it might actually be that way and that the shift in the period of validity can be done by legislative regulation and that it does not matter at all that it will be at first reading. [[15.20 hours]] I apologize to all of you for presenting this in Section 90 para. 2 because it is not customary for Members to walk in this way. But I have to say, time is playing against us here, and if we want to help all those who do business in these fields, and we don't want a collapse on biomass energy production after 30. 6. this year, so please need this proposal to be approved in this way, because actually from 1. The 7th of this year could not be paid to all interested parties. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you understand the problem before us. I really do not like to translate the law, albeit as simple as that, by a parliamentary amendment, and even at first reading. However, because if we don't do that, let's just say we support biomass after 30. We just don't want the 6th of this year. I don't think that's the point, and it's not our concern. Our concern is for this support to continue, so that the market is simply satisfied, filled and does not collapse in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for listening to me, and I ask you to support this proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u5	I thank Mr Adamc for making the proposal for the group of appellants, and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, namely Mr Róbert Teleky, to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly supplement the chairman of the Economic Committee. A group of Members across the political spectrum shall present a House press of 186. It is a domestic solution to the difficult situation in which the Member States of the European Union have found themselves. The production of electricity and heat from biomass receives support. Sustainability is demonstrated by an honest statement. A year ago, the European Commission was to issue delegated acts laying down criteria for the sustainability of biomass on the basis of which a standard official verification would take place to replace the system of honest declarations. However, the criteria are not yet met. This is why the amendment extends the existing system until the end of this year. We are already amending Regulation No. 382/2021 Coll. In addition, Law No. 165/2012 Coll. Section 47b is amended as it extends to persons who import, produce or supply biomass fuel, which is then used energyally in the production of biomass, electricity or heat. The amendment to the POZE Act is effective from 1. 7. 2022 introduced a new obligation to demonstrate compliance with sustainability criteria. This obligation concerns operators of biomass sources with a primary input of more than 20 MW and biogas operators with a primary input of more than 2 MW. Furthermore, the new requirements concern all fuel manufacturers and traders who supply fuel to these sources. Overall, these are 760 to 1,000 entities to be certified within a short period of time. The preparation of implementing acts and certification schemes is delayed at European Commission level. The Commission itself recommended that Member States postpone sustainability criteria. To avoid endangering these businesses, we propose to postpone this obligation by six months by the end of this year. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u7	I thank the rapporteur for this press, Mr Teleky, and I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Ožanová Zuzana is the first to report. I note here that a letter has come from the president of your club that Mr. Roman Kubíček will perform with the club's position. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you take precedence over your colleague from the same political club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable members of the government who won't care, they can have lunch or early dinner. I'll talk long, but on the subject, I'll touch the energy. I agree with the previous speakers here because it is clearly an amendment that saves money for those who own these matters. The ODS, SPD, YES, TOP 09, STAN and KDU groups so-called cross-cutting proposed this amendment in order to demonstrate the sustainability conditions of biomass. The proposal envisages that compliance with the sustainability conditions and savings of greenhouse gas emissions for biomass could be documented until the end of this year not only by the relevant document under the European regulation, but also by an honest statement. Manufacturers, importers and suppliers of biomass fuel should also provide evidence of compliance with the criteria. The amendment thus responds to the situation where the European Commission has not yet issued delegated cards to verify sustainability criteria for biomass, although they were to be issued in January last year. The parliamentary proposal therefore extends until the end of this year, when it is possible in the Czech Republic to demonstrate compliance with sustainability criteria with an honest statement instead of full verification, for which legislative assumptions are still not created at European Union level. Without a sufficient transitional period, there is a real risk of a collapse in the supply of biomass, which would meet the sustainability criteria, and thus also in the production of biomass energy, which will result in a failure to meet both the binding national and European targets in this area. All the necessary acts implementing the European Commission are currently not issued and are not at all certain when they will be issued. The petitioner proposed to the House to discuss the bill so that the House could agree with it in the first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. For the YES movement, I note that we will not veto this. The Government has taken a favourable position on this proposal. At the same time, however, it points out that the legislative technique chosen for the introduction or extension of the transitional period in which compliance with sustainability criteria can be demonstrated by an honest declaration is not appropriate in its view. Transitional provision of Article II (18) of Law No 382/2021 Coll. it relates, by nature, only to changes introduced by that law and therefore does not affect producers, importers or suppliers of biomass fuels. If, during the transitional period, it is intended to allow producers, importers or suppliers of biomass fuels to demonstrate compliance with the sustainability criteria by an honest declaration, the transitional provision should be included in Part One of the draft law now submitted as a separate Article II. As regards the current part of the second draft law submitted, it would be possible, depending on how the new Article II of Part One was formulated, either to limit the date from 30 June 2022 to 31 December 2022, or to point 18 of Article II of Act No. 382/201 Coll. it could be cancelled entirely. Or is left in the current text with respect to the interpretation rule of lex posterior derogat legi priori. At the same time, the Government considers that the amendments outlined above are only legislatively technical in nature, so that they would perhaps be possible in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Treaty. 6 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to be implemented even if the Chamber of Deputies had already given its consent in the first reading. [[15.30 hours]] This obligation to demonstrate sustainability criteria was added to the amendment of the Energy Support Act of 2021 between the conditions for providing operational support for the use of biomass energy. The law currently states as mandatory persons to demonstrate the sustainability criteria of the producer of biomethane, the producer of electricity and heat and the producer of biomass. However, sustainability criteria must also be documented by producers, importers and suppliers of biomass fuels, because without their documents, the biomass fuel producer does not have the energy used by them, or the biomass producer, how to demonstrate compliance with the sustainability criteria itself. Until 30 June 2022, electricity producers, heat producers and biomass producers may demonstrate that sustainability criteria are met temporarily by means of an honest declaration. However, producers, importers and vendors of raw material intended for the production of biomass fuels do not have this option. The proposed amendment proposes, during a transitional period, to allow proof of compliance with sustainability criteria by means of an honest declaration. Furthermore, the amendment proposes extending the transitional period until the end of 2022. The Chamber of Commerce's statement - it agrees that the implementation of the European Union regulation with the date of 8 March 2022, which was actually the letter quoted by the rapporteur here when the European Commission, due to the delay in preparing its delegated acts, recognises the need to postpone the application of sustainability criteria and biomass by six months. The amendment is thus completely in line with the European Union's guidelines. Of course, the main argument is that in the event of non-acceptance, everyone who burns biomass would lose their support, which would make it more expensive for people to heat, and it would cause litigation with the state, because the law guarantees this support and at the same time the State would not be able to ensure that this law is fulfilled. I think that this is one of the first steps that POZE is responding to, and I look forward to presenting a new law on POZE and a new energy law. Both laws will have to respond very, very strongly to today's day. When these original laws were created, the global was stable for a period of time predictable, the time set criteria and sustainability criteria for, say, predictive sources, and I think that this is no longer valid at the moment. I'd try to say more widely, I'm not gonna use the paper now, because I didn't want to make any confusion there. So in global today we come to the fact that, for example, the increase in electricity for some customers is up to four times higher. Yes, of course, I respect that these are customers who have gone into the last instance mode, and they have been offered new contracts that have not completely reflected the normal contracts, which probably each of you has, by some kind of price increase, about 38 percent. I don't want to be completely strict because we have a gas supplier here, for example, who, even in the last instance supplier mode, has created quite a big problem. I'm going to point that out because this law, too, has to take into account the future. What can we do to avoid being threatened by energy poverty? What will be the impact on households? What will be the impact on the companies? So I'll discuss the individual solutions that are. We have a solution here called photovoltaics, battery storage. The government's programming statement stated that the government would like to support 100,000 installations on family homes plus some unlimited number of ammunition and factories. This is certainly a commendable strategy, but the problem that arises today, and it is also in connection with the war in Ukraine and with the supplier-customer relations through Russia and through China, so we must realise that China is the largest producer of photovoltaic panels. She makes more than 90 percent of them and mainly because she has resources. She has the resources of the materials we need to make photovoltaics. As I have already pointed out, less than 10,000 installations were carried out on family houses last year. It wasn't all installations with a battery system. And the prediction that I asked the traders and those who provide the assembly, for this year it looks like 6,500, because all production today is being bought out by France, Spain, the United States of America. It's a bit of a big deal. As far as battery storage is concerned, the problem is even bigger, because there is almost an exclusive manufacturer, China, which works. And in global, if you're doing photovoltaics for a regular family house that involves about 10 kilowatts, you need those four batteries. For example, the assembly company from Jindřichův Hradec, which has twenty installation plans, today has batteries for four assembly and the expected delivery is in August when it works. However, we have gotten a little used to the fact that at present, let's say, even a partial economic crisis, a lack of materials and similar matters are practically waiting for everything. It's given because the devices need chips. The chips are exactly the same as the cars. And you know that when you go to order a car today, the waiting time of one year is not a problem. And the same thing could happen with the battery storage. However, I commend that money is earmarked for these installations. And I say and also recommend that this installation of photovoltaics with battery storage can save about 70 percent of the house consumption, which is a very important contribution to the future. However, the subsidies are still going up to about 50 percent of your investment. This investment is in the amount of 400,000 to 450,000 crowns. You can get about 200,000 crowns out of this fund. It's delicious, it's good. The question is whether it is suitable for everyone, because for someone, the 200,000 crowns can also be a problem. But if I registered correctly, the fund negotiates even very advantageous loans for people when they can spread payments into some time. I note that at current standard electricity prices, the return is about five years, which is therefore very good. Now let's see what Ivan Adamec and I have been talking about through the President. It's a matter of ammunition. The munitions would very much like to hit these sources, but that photovoltaic is in a completely different range. I do not want to now, but as he has spoken here, through Mr President, my colleague Mr Havlíček, so long ago we wasted the opportunity through the solar tunnel or the construction of these solar fields, because whoever goes to Slovakia knows that Slovakia took the same capacity and built it on houses, small companies and so on, and there was no problem with them. Today it's actually beneficial for those companies, with the fact that they had it at the beginning supported not by this form. And until today, there's sustainability, even though we know that ten years ago, the photovoltaic performances were about half as good as they are today. So that's what we'd have to do. Now we also need to get to the situation that occurred today in the electricity market. We've actually been shown here by a preferred contractor who's had a lot of ads. I'm not gonna name him, but we all know who he is. After that, there were a lot of them. We got into a problem that we're gonna have to treat in the law, and that's spot purchases. I guess we'll talk about how it works, because not everyone knows what it is. In the global, each of those suppliers should have some obligation to secure their energy supply, whatever it is, gas, electricity, whatever it is, for their future customers for a period of time. And there's also a so-called spot purchase that kind of targets a drop in the commodity's price at that point, and if you overwhelm and start doing most of it in those spot stores, you're showing that risk that was here. Then I learned that the company practically bought everything in spots, so from day to day it had no electricity at all that it could supply to its customers. Those customers, not by their own fault, fell somewhere, and we got into this massive campaign so we could still talk here about whether it was that dirty contract in the word and in the letter for the light bulb that worked. I think we're gonna have to remember that, too, and we're gonna have to remember that well. And if it's gonna be the laws of any financial involvement or some state supervision of the purchase of individual materials, it's probably gonna limit some of the suppliers, but it's probably gonna be the right thing to do in this case. Now, somehow, we also have to get to what happens when they leave. Those customers had to sign new contracts and there's information that gas suppliers are forcing their customers to sign new, rather disadvantageous contracts. And there's virtually no defense against it. [[15.40 hours]] I'm just pointing it out and confirming it, and with all due respect to what's being said here, that the gas is actually being purchased like gas, it doesn't say if it's Russian, Azerbaijani, Norwegian or anything like that, and in the global, the exchange allows for some shopping. And the problem in the Czech Republic is that the state as such does not have its own gas capacity, and if it wants to do something, and if it wants to create some capacity and some supplies, it has to rent storage tanks. He has to rent them out, he can fill them up, it's their business, but he's talking to some broker again, who's going to supply some gas capacity, and it's going to work somehow. I had already, well, perhaps three years ago pointed out that the diversification and the transition to gas was very massive and that the gas was a really, really relatively dangerous commodity, because when you looked at the territory where 80 percent of the gas flows into Europe, it was an unstable territory, an unreliable partner, even if it was very cheap, and I remember the great business campaign, to disconnect from central heating heat, with the traders walking and offering so-called block and individual gas boiler rooms, where they calculated a very advantageous price for their customers. And I admit that at that time, when there was no market volatility, the numbers really worked out. We will not talk about the fact that they always delivered it to customers without the fact that there was the price of maintenance, the price of renewables and so on, that it was just supposed to give -- he gave it, and it came out very well, but they did it in their own time. And I draw attention to the fact that there is a great interest in connecting to central heating at the moment, because whether we take it from the right or from the left, it is still the most stable source that these cities mostly care about. [[A note from the news desk.]] Yes, even the privates take care of it, that's right, and that's where the biomass comes in. Okay, thank you, Mr. Speaker. Then we're talking in some way about how to set up energy savings. In the '90s, it started to warm up houses, warm up buildings. And we know that the first heating systems are already ripe for replacement today, but of course the time has progressed in some way, and, as far as I know, the construction law also gives new builders much stricter standards, I don't think it's possible to build a house outside energy class B today, before it went to C, but by the time the heat started, it was class XY, we don't even know how it works. [[Class]] Well, that's probably already perceived well in the form of customers at the level of citizens, and today there is no house that would stand up without it, and, of course, the owners' community in different housing houses invested in it, because it actually found that within the time frame - and thanks to the subsidy titles - it was relatively short and that it was able to solve it. Then we're going to have some sort of community that lives in old houses, and we're going to say that they're, for example, retired people or people who can't afford to do some kind of upgrade, warming and so on, and that's something that the law should probably pay attention to and give in some way. And it's gonna be very difficult because every time you do some grouping and labeling, it leads to fraud, that's right, it's always been like that, and it's always worked. So, of course, Photovoltaic subsidies are an excellent matter, but for the translator, through the management meeting, I have made such a short calculation. In global, when we get to the installation of 100,000 buildings, it's actually 1 terawatt. For your information, Temelín will produce 15 terawatts per year, and the cost of 1 terawatt will be 40 billion, of which 20 billion will cost, 20 billion will be a citizen. So if we split it up, we're going to have 5 billion, which is an acceptable price. I suppose this is an acceptable price, but I would point out that even if we built all photovoltaics, the total power output of today's nuclear power plants, which is slightly above 30 terawatts, covers 35 percent, 35 percent of electricity consumption. And if you look at it in any way, if you do this installation, you've solved 1,2% of the renewable energy from photovoltaics. We're just talking about houses. We can't talk about ammunition. And I think that every mayor, if the law allows him to do so and the subsidy is appropriate, will seriously consider that he will want to supply the property owned by the city in this way. Now let's go to the gas. The gas is much more trouble. He may be a little bit of trouble for the citizens at the moment, I'm not saying he's none, but he's a little bit smaller for the citizens for the industry. [[than]] There we got to the fact that against the purchase that was made last year, in the middle of the year even before there was any fluctuations in the energy market, it has now increased up to eight times according to those stores, which is already a big, big problem, both to cash flow companies and to those supplies that work. But what's the threat to the gas? Well, in any case, he's threatening us with heavy industry, because what you're taking, the steel industry and all that stuff are really dependent on gas supply, because the gas furnaces are working, there's a temperature that can be achieved more or less only in this, plus once a long time ago coking coal, but I think coking furnaces - I don't know, I'd have to ask Members from the Moravian-Silesian region if they're still in operation or not, I'm not quite sure if they're just gas anymore. The problem that gas has shown, of course, has greatly accelerated the war in Ukraine. It's an indisputable matter, it's very dangerous. However, we had a seminar, we had fun at the seminar, if we cut off the gas that flows from Russian sites, so at the moment, if I'm not mistaken, we were told that we were able to replace 15 percent of the capacity, 15 percent of the capacity, and in the course of some years in building additional capacities, I think we needed to make that replacement, to build a product line, about five years. About five years. And quite a lot of costs. However, we did not quite solve the price of gas because, of course, the gas that is imported from the fracturing units is quite somewhere else in price, but it would not hurt at the moment if we were to switch to the tankers that would bring it to us, but the question is, how long is the sustainable gas price for industry and so on, because the impact will be. I've already been informed that the car industry is reacting to this, and that's our golden egg, because it's probably bringing the most money into the state budget, so we could say it's a big, big problem. Then we get to the biomass we support here today. This is the right way, it's probably very good, even if it's very marginal, and we've been trying to figure out how we keep our stock of chips. I remember here when there was a barking disaster, so everyone was slapping their hands and saying it was gonna be great, and we're just gonna work on the chipper, and it's gonna be fine. I have a house in such a central village that only uses a chipper, and it is certainly very convenient, but I have a feeling that it is simply adapted to the total collection for municipalities that are able to grow or obtain the biomass, and it is very good for the community up to 3,000 inhabitants, with connection to more difficult to find. And we did some study on heating one boiler in České Budějovice, which is a hundred thousand-dollar city, and we were able to secure the split for four years and we didn't reach the longer contract, because she has some criteria, some issues. Then we have biogas, they're also supported sources. Now I don't exactly remember if there are 488 in the Czech Republic, but somehow around this number it was moving. I'm sure it's a good source, the use of livestock manure, but we don't have that many, let's just say we're a big producer of pigs or cattle, so it's not here. And now the question is, will it be worth it in the current crisis to use some crop growing and then burn it down? Because I remember a time when there was an excess of wheat, there was wheat burning somewhere in the world. It's a sinful thought today, it really happened, it's nothing that doesn't work here. [[15.50 hours]] And then we have to put ourselves before a certain word, and we have to say it here, and that's called coal. I know it's been a bit of a dirty word in the last few years. And I thank my colleagues from the Economic Committee, who have a little bit of a sober view of what can and cannot be achieved. And coal is an energy source. It's the energy source not only for heat, it's also for power generation. Of course, we are getting into a huge issue of emission allowances, where once upon a time there was quite an interesting idea that forced those who were using fossil resources, to certain upgrades and cleaning and so on, so it got a little messed up, because if the idea were built so that emission allowances would be clearly traded by issuers and the advantage would be gained by those who invest in their technologies, in cleaning technologies and so on, so it would be great, because it would be a driving engine and all the resources that would work would somehow be interested in investing in their upgrades and their owners would not collect all dividends and put it in the future in how it could work. But unfortunately it wasn't, and it actually became a business derivative, and that's the way to hell always. So it's being bought. Through Mr President, we talked here with Ivan Adamec that they no longer have American and Canadian funds, but that China bought it from them. Please note that China has actually purchased emission allowances in bulk because it was an excellent investment opportunity for them. And the predictions and fillings, when we probably understood that in 2030, were going to cost EUR 32, so they didn't come true because that was what was supposed to happen, that was the predictions, that were cash flow heat plants, gas plants, power plants. And once you get out of this, you know for yourself who did business, that changeouts up to 5% can be managed fairly easily, once it's around 10 percent, it's already affecting the company's management. And if you do it within a hundred percent, sometimes we get into a situation as to whether it is better to close the company or, if necessary, to depend on certain subsidies. And that's today. Because if we left the heat plants without subsidies, they wouldn't be able to produce, or they would have to supply heat to those citizens for incredible money. And I think we've witnessed what just happened, and now I'm going back to the fact that energy growth was in the middle of last year. He had nothing to do with the war in Ukraine. He didn't. We responded to it. And again, I appreciate my colleagues from the Economic Committee, and we discussed this. We were discussing before the trouble came. We asked what would happen, how it would work. And now we come to the point of falling into energy poverty. And I opened up energy poverty on the Economic Committee some three or four years ago, and it was not entirely accepted as a subject that would be understandable. I am just saying that I have had several meetings with the European Ombudsman for energy. And this problem has already been detected in Europe much earlier. And you might find it very interesting that Britain has the biggest problems with energy poverty. In the UK, as many as 40,000 people die of hypothermia due to a lack of electricity in winter. That's just the way it is. And I know that Minister Síkela is working on a special tariff. So here I'm gonna try to make a solution that might work. I'm putting it to discussion. Colleagues will certainly respond to this in some way, or we can take it to the Economic Committee and discuss it. Minister Síkela mentioned the special tariff at the beginning of February. And now we're wondering what prevented the special tariff from working. At the time, energy suppliers identified it as a path unlikely to be realized - and it is within user databases. Once it was said that some databases of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs would be used, but the connection with the private sector is very difficult and the supplier of energy simply does not have information about the income of the customer and cannot have it. So only in some cases can it be found that someone receives housing contributions when the person requests a request for confirmation for the purpose of a discounted tariff. And that's also the question of whether it'll be relevant, it'll be true and so on. And it's very complicated. Then the system gets expensive, because every time we talk about whether something is flat and less flat, and we argue about it, there's always the question of what administration costs. When it's flat, it's simple. When it's targeted, it's complicated. And now we have to put what's cheaper on a bowl of scales. The right landlord works like that. And another thing that is, if we did the tariff, the supplier himself can't provide a social discount on what he buys and sells. That means the state would have to decide to subsidize the price difference. And now we're asking how to calculate the difference in price when we see the volatility of price and we see the movements and we see the purchases. And now we're talking about where the supplier's bought. We didn't treat that with the law, so we can't tell him today that he has to be bought for two years in advance. He can say, somehow I have it balanced, 50 percent I have somehow secured for the next years, and the others I will buy at spot markets. And then I wouldn't want to see it prove how much he bought, where he bought, at which time, because the energy couldn't be measured, that it was bought at that time and delivered at that time, and that that's the price for exactly that value, and that's kind of how we're going to be. [[unintelligible]] And now, in some way, we're gonna tell each other how to deal with it somewhere else. In France, about 5 million households are now at risk of energy poverty. Between 2005 and 2018, the state addressed their situation through a tariff of basic needs. It consisted of a discount on the first 100 kilowatt hours, up to 60 per cent of the basic price that households received depending on the number of members. The system was managed by the suppliers themselves, who had special social workers assigned to it. I'll explain, those employees were paid by the contractor, but they were originally trained by something like their Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and they were people who walked socially in those groups and knew where to move and how to do it. Suppliers received data from the Social Office, however they had to modify IT systems including personal data security. The system was partly financed from a certain electricity payment, as in our country is financed by OZ. And about 2.7 million households were entitled to this tariff in France, but it took advantage of about 80 percent. Even though they were entitled, some people did not ask for a settlement. Overall, it was found that the system at the cost of managing IT systems and social workers proved to be expensive and inflexible, and that is why France replaced the system with a so-called energy check as of 1 January 2018. This is sent monthly and can be used to cover the energy bill, but also to improve the energy performance of the household. Even this system has a problem because 20 percent of these vouchers have become the subject of speculation. We know our meal vouchers, which were also sold for half the value in some housing estates. So they actually found a hole in the system and sold it that way. However, thanks to cheques, the group that claimed this increased from 2.7 million to 5.8, and the amount of aid has increased and is currently between EUR 48 and 277. Then we will get to how the individual countries of the European Union actually solve energy problems, and it will be interesting how they have yet to do so. Now we get to the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom, the average of which they estimated in the first stages of 10,000 people who died because of lack of energy, and it went up to 40,000, but it was linked to covid, so that we could understand again that it was not given so that suddenly from year to year they got out of the European Union, but simply the people who had the disease were essentially more sensitive to temperatures. [[16.00 hours]] Great Britain has such a peculiarity, there maybe you can buy chips and you can, if you are poor, just start electricity to light up from - to or possibly to wash your laundry. But I wouldn't exactly put that as a model for a Czech company that is quite comfortable. But when you're in the UK, it's very interesting when I was there, so I was surprised that it was 15 degrees in those rooms and it was their comfortable temperature. It wasn't comfortable for me, but maybe I'd get used to it. In the UK, most household consumption goes for the necessary purposes. It goes on heating, preparing hot water and cooking. And they have one other thing - their apartments, their houses and so on are built in the so-called English style, he can't warm up, it's walled walls and so on, and everyone knows that there are these heat bridges that aren't really gonna solve any polystyrene. And they probably never even tried to do it in this form. And as far as I know, the characteristics of these cities don't match, because we always come here, the city is very colorful, it doesn't work that way. When there is a social system in England, basically only when there is a threat to fundamental needs and, in extreme situations, really life. That is why they have developed a system of state aid involving charitable organisations and provide this assistance in a targeted, not across-the-board manner. So we can choose, it's just different countries from the ground. For example, Cold Weather Payment is an organization that if the temperature drops for a certain number of days by a certain degree, a precisely defined group of beneficiaries of different aids from this program will receive 25 pounds a week, during the period from 1 November to the end of March, which they consider as a heating season. For seniors it is also intended Winter Fuel Payment and one time they can get up to 300 pounds. Energy suppliers are involved in the state program Warm Home Discount, and it is all those who manage over 250,000 customers. In this program, these customers can get a discount of up to 140 pounds. The aid is easy to accumulate, it is targeted and well thought out. However, any solution must begin in order to correctly define the definition of energy poverty. It's very important. Define only according to the percentage of revenue spent on energy is not enough. According to studies, poor households spend a larger proportion of their energy budget and it's about 10 percent or more, but the figure doesn't show everything because it doesn't evaluate consumer behavior. Because someone's gonna leave the window open, the radiator on full power, and they're losing energy efficiency, and he's okay with it. There is a study carried out by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, prepared by Seven in 2016, which focuses mainly on energy savings and only slightly affects other measures. According to her, however, the Czech definition is designed as follows: Household is considered to be energy poor if households, after deduction of housing costs, are left with less than 1.5 times the minimum of living and at the same time spend more than 10 percent of their disposable income on energy services: heating, lighting, cooking. There are quite a number of definitions, we will look at those definitions from the European Union, where it is said that the household is in energy poverty, if it had to spend more than 10 percent of its income to maintain a satisfactory heating regime, the UK says so. Household in energy poverty if it would have to spend more than 10 per cent of its income on all domestic fuel consumption to maintain a satisfactory heating regime. And then there's a satisfactory mode of heating that's 21 degrees, that's the measured mode, in the living rooms, and 18 degrees in the sleeping rooms. And I think it's a recommended temperature for us, too. I guess that's how it works. One option is to define the limit of energy poverty as energy consumed in the home below the known limit of spending or income poverty. The cost-based poverty line is well defined in most countries, so you are able to estimate average energy consumption below this level based on an energy survey in households. This is quite attractive because it is not really necessary to measure how much energy people consume, but this method also has a disadvantage that you define energy poverty on the basis of more general criteria, not on the basis of an energy basket of goods and services. This means that such a poverty line would not be based on energy policy in the country, but would rather reflect general economic and social policy. Monitoring energy poverty by this method would probably be nothing more than monitoring the general trends of poverty. This method is certainly not useful for those who would like to change conditions in the energy sector, because that would only be copied in the global shopping basket. Empirical studies, including ours, suggest that the percentages can range from 5 to almost 20 percent of the money or expenditure. And then if we go over 10 percent of the income, it's the limit where it could have an impact on the general well-being of the household. Because if you think it's pure energy, then you have the cost of living, some consumer basket, food, basic needs, and then the question is, do you have anything left for that free time? But I guess that's not the point of what we should be talking about here. The new good news that is probably coming out and could facilitate this situation is the installation of new modern remote measuring devices that are currently being installed. I don't have an estimate of how many pieces were installed, even those energy companies didn't brag about it, but CEZ, E.ON and Prague energy, if I have information. So far, we're looking at some units of a thousand. The system is quite interesting because it gives you back some kind of connection to when you have quite a lot of energy. And it's probably the same thing as when you use the photovoltaics and you learn to use and wash when the sun is shining, so you actually provide your own experience with lower consumption. And now another one, as it is still possible to figure out what energy poverty is, is based on the level of energy demand in relation to household income. This sweet spot for poverty professionals is a level of income at which energy consumption or energy spending levels do not differ significantly with income. The opposite is that from a certain amount of income these people will still start consuming more and more electricity. Let me give you an example: this has happened in the United States, because we are still talking here, and through the President, Mr Radim Fiala, here has pointed out that the consumption of the most electricity is in the winter when at least the sun shines. But when we look at the United States, and especially those states that are more sunny, it's exactly the opposite. In fact, most of them start to consume in summertime and it's absolutely simple - because people get used to certain comforts and use air conditioning. And the air conditioner is, oddly enough, more than heating. It's an interesting thing, but I'm sure you all know your grandmothers, where you were drowning in the stove, that Grandma had loaded the last log in the evening, and no one put it there until morning. You went to bed, it was 24 degrees, you woke up this morning, it was 15 degrees, but nothing happened because it was the accumulation of the stone that worked. So this is a little bit of a problem. So here we can talk about whether and how to do it and not avoid the complex social system. Because who should allocate some money, subsidies? At present, I can only imagine anyone other than the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Yes, absolutely. In that case, there should be a round table today, where the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and those suppliers should start acting whether it is possible, whether it is relevant, how expensive it will be and what it will bring. So we'll see. It's just a little bit of a problem. Now what happened to us at the time that was here, and what we have to look at, is actually some law restricting those traders. And we had fun a long time ago because there's a law firm and there's rules. He's got some rules he can't cross. And since they're members of that Bar Association when they cross them, they can be expelled, practice can be suspended, so it works. [[16.10 hours]] We used to talk about the fact that it would be good to create this system for energy traders as well. Let's say some rules, I don't really want to say more or less things that work because we once prepared a law that forced us to shape education and be a qualified supplier of this service. We have also come to the conclusion that we have abolished an unlimited number of credit-providing companies. And now there is the question of whether and in what form and to what extent to do so also with energy traders. I'm not gonna say if it's gas, electricity, heat, I guess it's not. For your information, at the beginning of April, 14,000 households were registered with the supplier of the last instance. I'm very careful about the number, because then I also watched that sometimes it's like other houses, holiday cottages, cottages and so on, where these people didn't even realize that they could actually be from another county and they had another supplier and they didn't know they were supposed to log in and how it worked. Although the suppliers were waiting and addressing until the last moment, I know that they were just starting to unplug and this non-standard situation could happen again with the collapse of other traders. I'm just going to point out here that this situation also happened with, say, the energy giant, which was the Prague Gas Company. You've all read this because I draw from public sources and I know that the capital city of Prague must have given a two-billion-dollar subsidy plus other bank guarantees for the purchase of gas. And I'm assuming what happened at the electric power company happened, that someone played with spot stores, clearly. Because the filling, the shopping for those things, because they don't own the magazines, they're drawing some gas from the magazine, and somehow it worked out in a way that someone messed with speculation. It couldn't have been any other way. Patrik Nacher, through the President, nods to me because he is a representative in Prague, and I think he has been very actively involved in this matter. It's very unusual. Then there's one question, and I don't even want to answer that question. Is it standard to give that support as part of the company's creation of its own problems? If it's not taken, and it could happen that another company will file it as illegal support to the UOHS? I'm just pointing out what might happen. And so we here in the global have some kind of system where we can disconnect within the legal framework, and they relate to this clause of Energy Act No. 458/2000. And it says in Section 30 that the electricity trader has the right in § d to terminate or interrupt the supply of electricity to customers during unauthorised electricity collection. This is followed by § 25: The distribution system operator is also obliged to interrupt the distribution of electricity in the event of unauthorised electricity collection at the request of the electricity trader or electricity producer. In addition, § 51: Unauthorized electricity collection from the electricity system. Unauthorized collection of electricity from the electricity system shall be: (a) the withdrawal without legal reason, or where the legal reason has lapsed; (b) collection in the event of repeated non-compliance with contractual payment obligations or payment obligations resulting from compensation for damage caused by unauthorised electricity collection, which are not fulfilled even after notification. It follows by analogy that the gas trader also has the right to terminate or interrupt the supply of gas to the customer in the event of unauthorised gas collection and the distribution system operator has the right to restrict or interrupt, to the extent necessary, the distribution of gas in the following cases: the unauthorised collection or distribution of gas or the unauthorised transport of gas. And what exactly is this unauthorized collection? Unauthorized collection of gas is a withdrawal outside the legal grounds, or where the legal ground has lapsed, a withdrawal in the event of repeated non-compliance with contractual payment obligations or payment obligations resulting from compensation for damage caused by unauthorised withdrawal of gas which is not fulfilled even after prior notification. The Energy Act therefore does not have any way at all to avoid disconnecting from this energy in the contract for customers in a catastrophic case. But there could be such a disconnect because we didn't know it at those prices, the fatal consequences, if there are periods in which energy is actually a necessity of life. It's cold, cruel winter and so on, and so on. Let's see how they deal with it elsewhere. In the United Kingdom, if you have reached retirement age, your supplier under the law, and that is in the Energy Act, cannot disconnect you between 1 October and 31 March, in cases where you live alone, if you live only with other people who have also reached retirement age or with children under the age of 18. We didn't know the problem, which is why I pointed to energy poverty three years ago and those deaths in that context. But what wasn't last year can happen beautifully. We've survived the period now. It's May already. I don't think anybody's gonna freeze to death by this new season. But in the market situation, the situation may actually happen that those power suppliers might be able to disengage. That is why we will have to address this to the Economic Committee and outline some measures to prevent this from happening. We're gonna have to do this. Perhaps it will also be some measure that we put somewhere else before the big energy law actually opens - because in my experience, and I have reported a large energy law, its negotiation, proposal and so on it took more than a year and a half. With some 1,400 amendments, we reduced it to some 280, and yet we managed to make mistakes and not reach everything. So we're gonna do it again, and we're gonna do it better. Then we have that another reason for not being able to unplug the customer is long-term health problems. Of course, the long-term health problems are on doctor's confirmation. It's not that your leg hurts and it works somehow. And then they're even serious financial problems. When you work with social services and they actually confirm that you have social problems not your own person, not that you're going to the game room, you lose £100,000 there, and then you say you have social problems, that's not how it works. And also, if you have children under the age of six at home. So we don't have it in the law, and it's one of the possible proposals. In France, there is the term winter break. From the age of 50, the tenant must not be thrown out on the street, for example, due to successive outstanding accounts, but also the supplier must not disconnect his energy. Winter break is a period in which proceedings for eviction of a tenant who does not pay rent and does not pay energy are suspended. To understand each other, he is not liberated indefinitely, but he is free from it from 1 November to 31 March. This means that they can, of course, evict him after this term. I asked, I didn't get an answer on how to solve the increase in that debt in six months, knowing that the customer hadn't paid before. I haven't been answered. It was accepted by silence and a word I will not quote here. One thing they rule out is people who own two properties. To understand each other, one where he has a reported housing, and the other one has a recreational life, or he's a husband and wife, it only applies to that one property, which is logical, too, because this is an abuse of a system that happens to us very often here. In Germany, how are they doing in Germany? In Germany, the legislation previously in force has determined that the disconnect may occur if the customer owes one-sixth of the annual advances or final billing, but at least EUR 100. It is not allowed to disconnect if consumers have refused payment within two weeks of compliance with the bill due to a manifest error, so we are excluded when we do not bear the responsibility. It must have happened to everyone that you sent a payment somewhere, and then a reminder came to you and it happened that the payment was not charged or accidentally made a payment to another account. [[16.20 hours]] Before disconnecting, the supplier must meet certain legal requirements in Germany. It can disconnect if the customer has been alerted four weeks in advance, the power to disconnect will be announced in writing at least eight working days in advance, the customers have not paid a minimum amount of EUR 100 and the measures in the form of disconnecting are reasonable. For a EUR 100 debt, no one can disconnect anyone who, for example, pays EUR 6 000 for energy over the course of the year. Appropriateness is taken as a percentage. It's right, we in the Czech Republic could still look at it this way. The supplier also has to inform his customers how they can prevent this disconnect, that is, backup, loans, similar issues, it simply offers them the solution, leaving it for nothing. Unfortunately, this is not exactly happening in the Czech Republic, because here it can be ratata boom, I am Major Šmaus, and the next day you do not drown. German legislators in global work very much also on those citizens and they therefore have a very high payment morale, it makes a difference again, the Němec does not like debts, so they pay, it is really a pardon of the total number of customers. And yet I think it's also possible to work in some way into that system. Then we have some ideas on how it works because they include many, many things where the supplier is obliged to somehow inform and offer these people things related to the payment of energy. They are so-called local aid offers, because each community has a so-called social fund, and the social fund can also be allocated in these cases. I think there are some social funds in our country, too, but it's not entirely specified that it's for the electricity. And special funds apply in case there's an unwarranted cause. Let me give you an example. My husband works at work, and he just broke his leg, and he's got six weeks in a cast, or he can have a back surgery, he can be six months old, and his income is very good, and he's already touching the family, he's got a little kid, his wife's on maternity leave. And at this time, they're helping them out with a non-refundable loan that works, or at least takes into account this time not as a defaulter, it doesn't work as a defaulter. Then we have prepaid systems. That's what I was talking about in the global, but it really concerns those people who go to sleepovers, live somewhere on the street, and have some accommodation, and they can actually throw a coin in England, and those coins provide them with lightning, partly heating, so in the global, they can only consume what they pay, which doesn't create the debt. The system is quite complex, they've been doing it from the start, if you've been watching historical movies, you've seen how many times they throw it into a vending machine and it gives it to them. They put it that way in the UK. Furthermore, in order to avoid this, the individual companies and the state provide even more services such as free energy audits of buildings and the provision of energy services, that is to say, they also operate in some mode of supplier recommendations and switch from the more expensive to the cheaper. I don't really know if the state should be doing this, because there's a lot of comparators here, but there's a lot of personal experience. Only we as a legislative body should treat it so that there is no enormous pressure on the customer, so that the customer does not sign a contract in an emergency and that the contract is understandable to him. And I will turn to Mr President - Madam President already - to Patrik Nacher, we can give this exactly the same thing in the global, as was the case with the loans, loans, insolvency, when the customer has to be clearly informed about the conditions and it has to be very clear to him, because these attacks are mostly for people of, say, older categories who don't fully understand it, or for people who, let's say, completely disagree with the math, and until today we have not yet gotten to the financial literacy that some of those schools would have imagined. So we have some things that we could do, we have an example of this Germany here, we have an example of this France here, we have an example of this United Kingdom here, and we should decide which way to go. After experience that I have long-term, let's not look for our own, it's always a way to hell, because once we start inventing a third one, it's not quite clear. However, we are talking about what can happen if the energy remains very expensive, and we also need to talk about how we can deal with this at this time. I have downloaded material that maps support throughout the European Union in global terms, which is upgraded on 26 April, and, of course, the Czech Republic falls into it, so we can clearly compare which form and which way is fast, which way does not create debt to households and what way will enable them to respond to the situation. Because where a person is not enough, he has to help the state, and if the aid is targeted, it can't only be targeted, it must be fast, because waiting for fuel, for example, to save the crown of 50, which I wouldn't see there, maybe for a vacation, but certainly not for ordinary consumers. So I will quote that the current increase in wholesale energy prices in Europe has forced governments to implement measures to protect consumers from the direct impact of rising prices. National files are monitored at national and transnational level and this means that individual policies are determined by individual EU countries and may vary. In the global, I will provide you with an overview of the individual policies. Which is useable, untapped, of course, for a professional debate, but we can somehow motivate ourselves. They themselves write in the report that, similarly, long-term measures in energy price fluctuations are exceptional. It's not enough to provide the energy and stabilize it for a month, two, but give some perspective. And for us, the forecasts for 2023 aren't at all happy. However, I will please you, at least on the basis of the information we have received on the Economic Committee, that year after that, it is considerably better for those long-term purchases that work, perhaps he could return to some normal. Thus, countries like Italy and Spain requested joint action at European Union level in order to establish strategic stocks and joint procurement for natural gas, other countries such as Hungary and the Czech Republic, wanted to rethink the emissions trading system, and France loudly called for the reform of the price mechanism of the European energy market. This development is worth some research and needs to be looked at. There are 25 countries of the European Union and Norway, the United Kingdom, and it is defined as six types of reaction to a sharp increase in energy. All measures were discussed, proposed and enacted and started in September 2021. Again, it was not connected to the war in Ukraine, it was the first shocks that occurred. They came to us, they came to us all over Europe, that's the interesting parallel that they have. It's been said here, it's a little bit responsive to Green Deal and the enormous pressure of Germany on the policy that it's set up, and now we're reaping the crop. And if you add covid and war in Ukraine, the mix is very toxic. [[16.30 hours]] So what did Austria do? On 28 January, it announced a €1.7 billion relief package for almost all households. Households will be compensated for the energy costs of EUR 150, which is the amount that will be doubled for those who need it significantly. In addition, tax reimbursement schemes for the private sector are being studied as well as reductions in taxes and charges. On 20 March 2022, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Climate and Energy announced a EUR 2 billion energy subsidy, including a reduction in taxes and compensation for employees, in order to reduce the burden on rising economic costs. The latest measures include up to 90% reduction in natural gas and electricity tariffs by the middle of 2023, with costs of more than EUR 900 million and higher subsidies for commuting employees, totalling EUR 400 million. The government will also offer support to companies with some tax payments being deferred and will provide EUR 250 million for investment aid to help reduce the energy dependence on Russian gas. It's about households, it's about heat pumps. It's quite challenging, but very effective. In Belgium, on 2 October 2021, the Government proposed an extension of the social energy tariff introduced during the pandemic so that vulnerable people could better cope with the health crisis, and ten days later this measure was introduced into the entire federal budget and is to last until - or so, it lasted until the end of March 2022 and cost EUR 208 million. More than half a million households were targeted. Since October 2021, citizens, they have been a little inspired in France, the most vulnerable citizens can use an energy check of EUR 80, which has been deducted from the account they have been paying, and the budget for this energy support will be EUR 72 million. On 12 October, a fund for gas and electricity was established, to which EUR 16 million was added to support households in need for those who do not qualify for a social tariff, and it is such a limit when the children are small and do not fall into it, so it is possible to put it. Some taxes, such as the federal gas and electricity contribution and green energy certificates, are replaced by excise taxes that the government can easily adjust to compensate for fluctuations in energy prices. It is about keeping sales at a constant level rather than increasing together with energy prices. The government also banned unilateral changes in energy contracts. That's very interesting. The government banned those traders from changing contracts by which energy suppliers could individually increase the advance invoice to consumers, including in fixed price agreements. Furthermore, in February, they announced a reduction in VAT to electricity from 21 per cent to 6 per cent, from March this year to July. Moreover, the government will provide each household with a cheque of EUR 100 and will introduce a further reduction in fees for low-income families. In total, the energy package should be EUR 1.1 billion. On 14 March, however, the federal government decided to extend the VAT reduction until the end of September and the oil-fired households, which is also one of the heaters, received a payment of EUR 200. The extended social tariff from the evaluation of one of the five households is therefore extended until 30 September. [[Pleasant?]] It says there that the threat was 20 percent. We are now talking about 20 to 30 percent. The total costs which raised this measure are estimated to be EUR 1.3 billion. The Belgian Prime Minister further stated that Belgium would take the lead in promoting the ceiling for European gas prices. It's also interesting, it's a splash. What was said somewhere, like it's a dirty word, the Belgian Prime Minister wants to put gas prices on the table for the whole of Europe. I'm sure that's very good, and I'm sure the stock market wouldn't like it. And then on March 19, they reduced the tax on diesel and gasoline by 17.5 cent per litre. Then we have Bulgaria, the poorest country of the European Union. On 22 October 2021, it announced that it would provide a household tool of EUR 55 per megawatt hour for two months. The EUR 225 million they requested came from a tax on the unexpected profit of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant. That means they've disbanded the power plant's profits into the social system. What we've been pointing out here is possible, too. At the end of December 2021, the Bulgarian Minister for Energy, Alexander Nikolov, announced a new measure which compensates businesses for a 75 per cent increase in the price of electricity above the threshold of EUR 95 per megawatt hour, but not above 30% of the actual average monthly price. So when the ceiling went down in the global, the compensation was EUR 66 per megawatt hour. The Minister stated that this compensation to cover the high price of electricity would exceed EUR 460 million in four months, with the state budget covering most of the costs. On 20 January 2022, this formula was adjusted and with maximum compensation, and where it really remained there again to a maximum of 75 per cent of the 95 euro, but the maximum sum was replaced by EUR 128 per megawatt hour. On 16 December, the government coalition voted for households to freeze electricity and heat prices by the end of March. There's no report on what they've done since April 1st, so I'm leaning on the source. Croatia. At the end of February, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovič presented a package of EUR 636 million to reduce energy price growth. The package will include an increase in energy prices to 9.6% for electricity and 20 percent for gas. The package will also focus on the most vulnerable energy collections, their number is estimated to be around 90 000, and this increases the number of eligible people who receive vouchers to bill electricity and gas above this value. Government measures include that they have permanently reduced the rate of value added tax, VAT, gas and heat from 25 per cent to 13. In addition, the gas rate will fall temporarily to 5% in the period from the beginning of April this year to the end of March 2023. Cyprus. On 17 September the Government announced a 10% discount on the electricity bill for all households from November to the end of February and on 4 November the Cabinet approved a reduction of VAT from 19 per cent to 5 per cent on electricity bills for vulnerable groups for six months. The Minister of Finance said that the government would also extend the payment of the contribution to the cost of living. Czech Republic. In November and December 2021, electricity and gas were exempted from value added tax, and the government also claimed that households and other places would be exempted from the energy charge if electricity came from renewable sources. She promised, that's not what happened. On 29 December 2021, the new coalition government approved a law "aid to households and entrepreneurs' to provide targeted assistance to households and entrepreneurs severely affected by rising energy prices. Small and medium-sized enterprises whose energy supplier has failed and which have experienced an increase of more than 100 per cent in the energy account are offered a zero-interest government guarantee to cover costs and operating costs. Well, it hasn't been used yet, but it's being offered. This is provided under the guarantee programme from 2015 to 2023 through the National Development Bank. And the Minister sometimes outlined a proposal at the beginning of February to support companies that are facing an increase in energy. The package should compensate energy-intensive sectors by paying emission allowances or by reducing VAT. Transfer loans from state institutions or commercial banks with a State guarantee were also considered. In March, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka said that energy prices could be ceilinged, or some tax relief, including VAT, could occur. After the Russian invasion, and we must admit that, the government abolished the road tax for cars up to 12 tonnes, and the incorporation of biofuels was abolished in global. [[16.40 hours]] Denmark. The Danish Government has allocated EUR 13,4 million to supplement the existing programme to help vulnerable households and proposes tax-free control to help some 400,000 households pay energy bills. By February, the measures were terminated and entered into force by a so-called heat check, which was worth EUR 800 for 320 000 of the most affected households. Estonia. Low-income households will benefit from discounted electricity prices from September 2021 to April 2022. Network charges for all electricity consumers have been halved since October last year. The Minister for the Environment announced that the total cost of the measures amounted to approximately EUR 100 million. At the end of 2021, Estonia decided to extend the energy price subsidy to low-income families with income below EUR 1 126 per month per person from the first income. According to the Estonian Minister for Public Administration, this means that some 380 000 households throughout Estonia will benefit from this. The estimates for this subsidy are approximately 79 million euro to be covered by the emission allowances yield. Furthermore, on 25 January, the Estonian Government approved a ceiling for electricity prices at EUR 0,12 per kilowatt hour and EUR 65 per megawatt hour for households and the abolition of electricity distribution charges for businesses. Everything aims to change the negative effects of rising energy prices and the advantages will actually be valid at the discretion of governments. Finland. On 22 February, EURACTIV announced that the government had decided on temporary targeted measures to mitigate the problems caused by sharply rising energy prices. The measures focus on transport, agricultural entrepreneurs and households. These include a temporary increase in the maximum cost of commuting from EUR 7 000 to EUR 8,400. Also, the mileage fee for commuting was slightly increased when using your own car. For professional drivers, the plan is to create an adjustment where professional diesel would have a lower tax rate, and measures according to the Minister of Finance will reduce tax revenues, but will not increase government spending, but the state will lose EUR 450 million on income. At the Ministerial Council on 17 March 2022, the executive promised direct grants to the agricultural sector amounting to approximately EUR 300 million to direct aid to mitigate the crisis in agricultural costs and improve security of supply of domestic food production. A similar package of EUR 75 million was also issued for the logistics sector. The government seeks to establish a model where income support could be paid automatically to households in the event of a sharp rise in market prices and to take into account energy prices in providing social assistance to households with the lowest income. In the third emergency package since the beginning of the war, the government has also agreed to reduce the fuel distribution obligation by 7,5 percent points for 2020 and 2023 and to reduce the distribution obligation will benefit professional and private drivers. Another EUR 350 million was earmarked for long-term energy security, including investments in hydrogen production and battery storage. I think that's interesting. In the short term, Finland will increase the domestic supply of wood chips while financing peat extraction. Well, we don't really have those options, but okay. France. On 15 September, she announced plans for a one-off payment of EUR 5,8 million to households already receiving energy vouchers. So they actually entered the combination I showed you here. And the Prime Minister also announced a reduction in the gas price until April 2022. Both measures were then strengthened on 21 October, thereby increasing the number of voucher recipients for anyone who makes less than EUR 2 000 a month net, and this concerned around 38 million people. And an extension of the price ceiling to the end of 2022. It is also discussed about the fuel voucher and the reduction of the electricity tax rate. And Reuters says that the Minister of Economic Affairs said that the payment of 38 million will cost EUR 3.8 million and will be paid this year. Furthermore, in December 2021, the French Government launched discussions on the changes in the formula used to calculate the main electricity supplier's tariff, thereby limiting market interconnection in the formula. The new measure builds on the Prime Minister's promise to limit regulated tariffs to 4% per year. That's the change. The change they can make is only 4 percent. In addition, in December 2021, an increase in the volume of electricity which the French State company was obliged to sell by 50 per cent was planned. However, another increase to 20 percent was agreed in March, so the competition is actually selling 120 terawatt hours on the direct market, which is actually more than the total production of the Czech Republic. This forced sale for the period from 1 April 2022 to 31 December 2022 is made for an amount of €46.2 per megawatt hour and is part of the so-called regulated approach to nuclear electricity, which provides a preferential purchase price for alternative producers. We all know that France is probably the biggest producer of nuclear energy, most dependent on it. So from 31 January 2022, the estimated cost to the State until now was EUR 8 billion, and the state company was obliged to reduce billing costs below the market rate, in such a way as to cover only the 4 percent increase, and warned its investors that it would require a financial basis from the French energy price cap. That means she gave them a preliminary warning that whoever bought those shares should have information that the regulation and intervention would occur. Some estimates suggest that government spending will sustain high energy prices from autumn 2021 and will need a reduction of up to €15,5 billion. From February 2022 to January 2023, the government also reduced the electricity tax from 22,5 euro per megawatt hour to 1 euro for households and 50 cents for businesses. That's like a lot. New measures are also announced in the light of the Ukrainian crisis and this package will cost France an estimated EUR 25 to 26 billion. Germany. On 23 September 2021, Reuters stated that the Minister for Economic Affairs did not see the need for government intervention against gas prices. However, they re-evaluated this position in a few weeks and announced a reduction in the energy charge from 6.5 to 3.72 cent from the wholesale price for kilowatt hours of electricity, and this measure costs Germany EUR 3.3 billion. It entered into force on 1 January 2022 and will be financed from the federal budget and from the proceeds of emission allowances. Yes, they're all funding the emission allowances, it's such a peculiarity. In January 2022, the new coalition government announced targeted measures to help vulnerable households cover their full heating bills, while the Minister of the Environment told Reuters that they would repress - suppress - suppliers so that they would not benefit from these contracts after their insolvency expires, so that the free market here was slightly suppressed. The State also offered low-income households a one-off grant package of 130 million (?) EUR to be paid during the summer when households receive a bill from energy suppliers. That means they get a partial compensation. [[16.50 hours]] At the beginning of February 2022, more politicians in and outside the coalition government began calling for a further reduction in the fees for a central energy supplier by 2023, which would reduce households on average by 300 euros a month. Electricity prices, I point out in advance, are the highest for German households in the EU, and if you remember, the Němec were once long ago to pay for renewable resources, I think, an amount of EUR 100 per head across Germany, but they did it voluntarily. [[willing?]] They were really invited in some way back then in a referendum, and that's how it worked. [[♪ to ♪]] In addition, Reuters notes that some 4.2 million German households increased their electricity accounts by 63.7 percent on average in 2022, and 3.6 million people who pay their bills for, 62 percent before it was in 2021, which is really record-breaking even for Germany. [[unintelligible]] On 24 March, the German government coalition agreed on additional measures worth EUR 15 billion, including a temporary reduction in fuel prices for three months by reducing margins by 30 cent for petrol and 14 cents for diesel, and other measures include a one-off payment of EUR 300, a cheque of EUR 100 to increase child support and a monthly reduction to EUR 9 per month for public transport. We've been communicating here that the public transport is actually running for CZK 220 a month today. These new measures will complement already agreed subsidies for low-income households, increase commuting allowance and contribution to the main supplier. Chancellor Scholz further stated that the total cost of these policies increases the overall cost of protecting consumers from energy growth by approximately EUR 30 billion. Greece. On 14 September 2021, plans were notified to offer subsidies for electricity bills to most Greek households and small enterprises by the end of the year and were then expanded in mid-October. The value of the subsidy was at the beginning of EUR 9 for the first 300 kilowatt hours consumed and was later increased up to EUR 18 per kilowatt hour for low voltage consumers and EUR 24 for the recipient of the household social tariff. Since January 2022, this household subsidy has been increased to EUR 42 for the first 300 kilowatt hours and EUR 65 per megawatt hour for businesses regardless of the size, sector and level of the voltage collected. Furthermore, for households included in the social housing tariff, the subsidy will be EUR 180, which means 90% of the increase in this subsidy, and the government company Public Power Corporation has also expanded its existing discount policy to fully cover price growth for the average household with consumption up to 600 kilowatt hours per month. At the same time, the ceilings for heating contributions and inclusion criteria have been extended, and the government estimates that the number of beneficiaries exceeds 1 million compared to 700 thousand in 2021. From January 2022, natural gas will also be subsidized for households as well as for companies, amounting to EUR 20 per megawatt hour and EUR 30 per megawatt hour. VAT subsidies were also introduced for both groups. Part of the funds for consumer protection by December 2021 were financed through a specific support fund for energy transformation, with at least EUR 150 million being made out of increased revenue from the carbon emission trading rights scheme for Greece in 2021. The cost of these measures is around EUR 500 million and the cost of the package, which has been in force since January 2022, is estimated at an additional EUR 400 million. The Minister for Environment and Energy announced that EUR 100 million from the renovation fund would be used to build photovoltaics and supply energy to endangered households. In March, the government subsidies for the industrial sector amounting to EUR 65 per megawatt hour did not cover a sharp increase in wholesale prices, and this was due to the start of the war in Ukraine, where the price on the Greek stock exchange was up to EUR 360 per megawatt hour, and at that time Greece spent approximately EUR 2.5 billion on electricity and gas subsidies and another EUR 1.1 billion on the discount on low-income fuel. Furthermore, in April, the government introduced a single EUR 200 aid for all low-income pensioners. It was quite simple in Hungary, because prices for households are sub-cost and regulated and the government has stated that it will put price ceilings on both gas and diesel. It's all there. Ireland. Electricity prices for Irish households were the fourth highest in the EU in the first half of 2021 and increased by units after tax removal. Following the submission of the Irish budget for 2022, the Minister of Finance introduced a 30% reduction in the tax on guaranteed heat and electricity expenditure, and this measure cost EUR 2.2 million and all of which were actually covered by emission allowances. Most of the money goes to free upgrades for low-income households at risk of energy poverty - this is the country where they are defined, so it is more or less targeted there - and a new low-cost credit regime for modernising real estate has been introduced. Furthermore, on 14 December, the government approved a EUR 210 million programme which will add EUR 100 to all domestic electricity customers in 2022 and some 2.1 million account holders will benefit and receive this one-off exceptional payment. In March 2022, the payment of the electricity loan was doubled to EUR 200 and will continue in the following months. Otherwise, the funding of the programme cost EUR 215 million and increased to EUR 400 million with the continuation of the programme. Italy. On 27 September Italy approved a short-term measure of less than EUR 3 billion to offset the expected growth in retail electricity prices by the end of 2021. The financing was divided into EUR 2 billion to eliminate the general system charges in the energy sector and EUR 480 million to reduce the general gas charges. Furthermore, the system charges for electricity bills were offset by EUR 700 million, all from the proceeds of the CO2 auctions and another EUR 1.3 billion were provided from the National Energy and Environmental Services Fund. VAT using natural gas decreased to 5 per cent for both civil and industrial use, and VAT on accounts was withdrawn from 22 per cent to 10. This social bonus has been allocated EUR 450 million. The Energy Authority will continue to act in such a way as to minimise the increase in the costs of these supplies. For approximately 6 million small enterprises with low voltage indicators up to 16.5 kilowatt input and approximately 29 million domestic customers, payments relating to general system charges for the last quarter and the first quarter of this year are set at zero. The new measures are likely to continue, with the overall cost of maintaining energy prices in the amount of around EUR 5 billion. On 9 December 2021, the Italian Government agreed to supplement the expenditure of EUR 2.8 billion already planned for 2022 by an additional billion. On 18 December 2021, the Government outlined how it would spend resources for 2022, of which 1.8 billion would be used to eliminate system charges for electricity users, namely households and small energy-efficient enterprises up to 16,5 kilowatts, an additional EUR 480 million was earmarked for the abolition of gas charges for all users, and then, as in September, VAT was reduced to 5 per cent for civil and industrial uses with a projected loss of income of EUR 608 million. Finally, EUR 912 million is used to increase the social bonus. It is a discount on accounts for economically disadvantaged families and people with a serious health condition. The goal is still simple to compensate for a new increase we don't know when it's going to end. Furthermore, the Italian Government has established that it is possible to agree to extend the instalments for the year 2022 for energy consumption with its suppliers. [[17,00 hours]] Furthermore, the Italian industry announced an increase in corporate taxes for energy companies that benefited from sharply rising energy prices. It's interesting that they actually looked at the direct suppliers. This happened a few days after Matteo Salvini called on the Minister of Industry for another EUR 30 billion deficit. Overall, State aid for households in Italy is expected to amount to EUR 8.5 billion. Furthermore, on 21 January 2022, the Council of Ministers announced new measures, up to EUR 1.7 billion, against high energy accounts. This was above the planned framework of 3.8 billion for the first quarter of 2022. Overall, it reached EUR 5.5 billion for the first quarter of 2022. Other funds will be financed through an unexpected profit tax from February to the end of 2022 for all energy producers - solar, wind, water, geothermal and others. This means that in the global the state has reached for part of the profit. On 21 April, the Senate approved additional expenditures of EUR 8 billion, of which 5.5 billion are to act against rising energy prices and the rest to help the most affected productive sectors of the economy. So they didn't just rely on helping households, but on the economy that actually keeps the system running. Furthermore, system charges on electricity accounts will be kept at zero throughout the summer and the tax will be set at 5% of the gas and electricity accounts. Furthermore, a social bonus for electricity and gas will be extended for all low-income households. Furthermore, an 800 million fund was activated to support the automotive sector. Measures have also been taken to support the installation of renewable sources, i.e. subsidies for photovoltaics and wind sources, with this level counting on air conditioning - and they will also do so with control - not being allowed to air-condition rooms below 25 degrees Celsius. So the other way around, you won't be able to make the winter there. Latvia. In Latvia, approximately 150,000 of the most vulnerable households, including households with disabled members and large families, will receive EUR 15 to 20 a month, at least until the end of 2022, to pay electricity and gas bills. The Ministry of Economy has further developed and supported the proposal to reduce the compulsory public procurement component in the country to EUR 7.55 per MW from the original amount of EUR 17 per MW in 2021. Furthermore, the government introduced a 50% reduction in the electricity distribution tariff for an effective period (?), the subsidy is allocated to the distribution system operator as compensation for the reduction of the distribution rate affecting end-users. Citizens over 60 years of age and disabled citizens receive a monthly grant of EUR 20 per month from November 2021. Households with children continue to receive EUR 50 per child. The previously proposed instrument to support the time-limit for reducing value added tax in Latvia has not been approved. The government's total cost is estimated at EUR 450 million. On 14 October, the Lithuanian Government announced that it would postpone the last phase of energy market liberalisation due to possible disturbances caused by a sharp rise in energy prices. Moreover, the increase in heat and gas prices will spread to consumers, i.e. an upward curve, for a period of up to five years. We are also discussing the extension of heating aid to the poorest 110,000 households. The Lithuanian Parliament also approved a new legislation that allows more people to apply for heating subsidies. About 110,000 people are involved. The government also planned to set a ceiling for electricity prices for consumers with an increase for another five years. Luxembourg. The Luxembourg Minister for Energy says that he continues to closely monitor the development of energy prices and informs the Government's board on this. On 1 January 2022, the government increased its contribution to the cost of living by EUR 200 in order to protect vulnerable households from rising energy prices. Furthermore, on 31 March, the government introduced measures to protect society from higher energy prices in force until the end of 2023. What measures have they taken? They provided easier bank loans for eligible companies. These are the companies that need liquidity for the war in Ukraine. The State guarantee may cover up to 90 per cent of the loans. A total amount of EUR 500 million has been allocated to the programme. Furthermore, the scheme promotes compensation for part of the additional costs of higher electricity and natural gas prices. This scheme provides support to companies which are classified as energy-intensive, including the automotive industry, whose purchases of energy products account for at least 3% of their turnover production value, covering between 30 and 70 per cent of these additional costs exceeding the doubling of gas and electricity prices. However, the granting of aid with an intensity of more than 30 per cent is subject to the condition that the company is in loss and that the eligible costs are at least 50 per cent of the loss. The Government also proposed to analyse the possibility of opening up the scope for the road freight and construction sectors and for the road transport and food industries. The food industry is very interesting. The measures for the agricultural sector were then specifically proposed to compensate for part of the additional costs associated with the rise in energy prices, fertilisers and inputs up to EUR 35 000 per holding. Another is the aid scheme to compensate for the additional costs of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme for the period 2021 to 2023. This measure covers that part of the cost of these emissions will be borne by the State to the individual companies. In return for this support, each receiving company must accept investment contracts to promote energy transformation. This is what I think applies a little bit to the Czech Republic, where the total transformation and diversion from coal to other sources should take place by 2023. So maybe a pretty interesting role model for us. Furthermore, in order to increase the purchasing power of citizens and vulnerable groups, additional support and tax relief schemes have been introduced, a reduction of 7.5 cent per litre of fuel, diesel and petrol per litre of fuel oil. Finally, housing measures were introduced or revised to help with rising household costs. This is a temporary freeze of rents and higher rent subsidies for large families and a financial support system. Furthermore, the government has reduced the energy tax for households and businesses, and this will cost it EUR 2.7 billion to compensate for households and EUR 0.5 billion to compensate companies. The cabinet also makes available EUR 150 million to support vulnerable households with high energy bills - that is, energy poverty - or with poorly isolated houses by improving isolation. The system will be managed at the level of the municipality. That's quite reasonable. On 21 March, the government agreed to increase the one-off contribution to energy for people with income around the level of social assistance to EUR 800, previously EUR 200. At the same time, the government reduced the value added tax rate to energy from 21 to 9 per cent and reduced the excise duty to petrol and diesel by 21 per cent from 1 April 2022 to the end of the year. This additional package will cost a total of EUR 2.8 billion. The government will finance the package partly from additional gas revenues and will use the remaining funds from the Brexit adjustment reserve. [[17.10 hours]] Norway. On Wednesday, 10 January 2022, the Coalition announced that domestic electricity subsidies would increase by an estimated EUR 893 million. The government will thus pay 80 per cent of the share of electricity accounts above the price of CZK 0.70 per kilowatt hour, which is to increase by 55 per cent in the plan proposed for the previous month. The previous measure thus cost Norway EUR 501 million, so the total cost of this calculation was EUR 1.39 billion. On 1 April 2022, the Government submitted budgetary measures to address extremely high electricity prices. These measures include an extension of the electricity support scheme for households of EUR 770 million, agriculture and greenhouses of EUR 52 million, a voluntary sector of EUR 24 million and a sustainable housing of EUR 16 million until March 2023. Parliament also approved increased housing support, an exceptional grant for students, increased support for widows and increased framework grants to municipalities to cover increased social aid payments. In addition, electricity charges are also significantly reduced in the winter months. The new measures increase the overall cost of protecting consumers from high prices and it will cost €2.3 billion. Now we have our neighbors from Poland. On 22 October 2021, the Minister for the Environment submitted a draft law aimed at protecting 20 percent of the most vulnerable households from a sharp rise in energy prices. The measure will be implemented by transferring part of the revenues from emission allowances to energy accounts and by increasing their value by up to six months. A similar measure was proposed immediately for the agricultural sector. At the end of November 2021, the Government announced a package of tax reliefs and contributions to vulnerable persons worth more than EUR 2 billion. In January 2022, the Polish Prime Minister described his second anti-inflationary shield, which was a reduction of VAT on food, gas and fertilizers to 0 percent, diesel and petrol to 8 percent and heating contributions to 5 percent, all of which were six months long. Financial assistance measures have also been put in place for public authorities. [[unintelligible]] The contribution to helping households face energy bills has been reinforced, and this has been provided at a maximum of EUR 106 per person. Furthermore, the contribution will evolve according to the type of heating and the number of people living in the household. The first instalment from this aid was paid at the end of March 2022, the second payment will be sent in December 2022 and should cover the costs of 7 million households. The government is further working on a new package called Putinův's shield, which should apply to those spheres of economic life that have suffered as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Since 1 February 2022 Poland has further reduced the rate of fuel tax from 23 to 8 percent and has liberated gas and fertilisers from VAT. At the end of September, Portugal announced a reduction in the tariff for access to industrialised networks by at least 30 per cent and the Minister also authorised the removal of a specific production fee under a specific renewable source regime of EUR 250 million, as well as the removal of additional costs for contracts for the purchase of energy for coal. It is thus able to generate annual savings of EUR 100 million. Other measures include the lifting of the interruption mechanism by which factories reduce or suspend their energy consumption when the overall electrification system does not meet demand in exchange for financial compensation and full allocation from the sales of emission allowances licences, up to an estimated amount of EUR 270 million. [[unintelligible]] Finally, there is also a bumper in this package for sending revenue from an exceptional contribution from the energy sector to an estimated EUR 110 million. So we're taxing. There. The total amount is thus increased to EUR 680 million, which guarantees a reduction in access tariffs, these are the basic ones, by 13 %. On 15 October, the Portuguese National Regulatory Authority announced its draft electricity tariffs for 2022, including all measures notified by the Government, which are worth mentioning that network tariffs will be reduced by more than 50 per cent for households and by more than 94 per cent for industrialists. It also announced that the regulated tariff for domestic consumers was compared to the 2001 average tariff (?) reduce by 3,4 %. At the beginning of March, the government also decided to extend the refund mechanism to VAT revenues, together with the revenue from gasoline derivatives as a result of the increase in fuel prices and to suspend the increase in carbon tax. Moreover, in 2022, the government increased the value of autovoucher, that's when you pay for petrol, so you have a free part of the petrol. It raised this amount up to EUR 20 per beneficiary. It's interesting that she didn't deal with it by lowering the price of petrol, but by getting the recipient some kind of voucher. Well, that's the question of how you could do business with it. Furthermore, on 25 March 2022, Portugal was authorised by the institutions of the European Union to apply individual measures to reduce electricity prices, taking into account their energy island status together with Spain. This is the link not with Europe, but only Portugal and Spain. Such a peculiarity, but not so complete, because Germany has the same interconnection of the energy market with Austria. On 28 March 2022, the country's energy regulator announced that measures concerning even covid, which prevent providers from interrupting electricity and gas supplies, would be repealed by the end of March. And economically vulnerable consumers are entitled by means of a social tariff for both electricity and natural gas supply. This amount is 33,8 % and applies to everyone, regardless of whether it is in a legalised or liberalised market. They don't have it fully liberalized yet. Furthermore, vulnerable persons are exempted from two out of three additional charges. A new subsidy was introduced for the purchase of propane-butane bottles of EUR 10 per month per bottle. This subsidy will last until the end of June. It can be estimated that in the country, people are actually using the bottles more than some kind of gas distribution. There. Furthermore, with the agreement of the European Commission, Portugal has agreed with Spain on the maximum price, the ceiling of gas, at EUR 50 per megawatt hour, which means that the price of electricity from gas is still de facto separated. This should lead to a halving of accounts for 40% of Spanish and Portuguese consumers at regulated rates. In Romania, on 7 September 2021, the Romanian Parliament approved a law aimed at protecting vulnerable consumers from rising energy prices from 1 November 2021, with subsidies being used to assist domestic heating, energy consumption, energy efficient home equipment, and the purchase of products and services improving the energy performance of buildings or the connection to the energy network. [[17.20 hours]] On 4 October, Minister of Energy Virgil Popescu Popescu compensation for electricity and gas bills and is expected to affect approximately 6 million families and up to 85 percent of the Romanian population. In addition to households, public and private hospitals, schools, kindergartens, NGOs and public social service providers will be compensated. On 31 October, the Romanian Parliament also voted on the draft law implementing the abovementioned measures and imposing an unexpected tax on producers of income exceeding EUR 91 per megawatt hour, i.e. they again reached for private money. On 11 January 2022, the government announced a new consumer protection regime in households with a monthly consumption of up to 300 kilowatt hours, a reduction of VAT to 5%, and a green certificate compensation as a cogeneration bonus, and only 16 cents per kilowatt and 20 cent per kilowatt industrial customers will be charged to those customers in the global. In the case of natural gas, it is even so that the consumer pays a maximum of 6 cents per kilowatt and an industrial user of 7 cents per kilowatt. In Slovenia, at the end of January 2022, the government granted a one-off energy subsidy to low-income citizens, an energy voucher of EUR 150 and received 621 000 people and large families, over 5 people, received this compensation of EUR 200. The State has allocated EUR 106 million for this measure and will draw money on the so-called climate fund. Again - emission allowances again. From 1 February 2022 until the end of April, households were exempted from paying electricity bills and excise duties on electricity and fuel were reduced. Prime Minister Janša explained that part of the cost of mitigating these measures will be borne by the profits of the companies that collect the network charge for electricity. Furthermore, the Government proposes a temporary exemption from the grant of aid for the production of electricity by high-performance combined production and from renewable sources for energy for domestic customers and for low-voltage customers without measuring power. The government has thus allocated around EUR 70 million to help the most affected sectors, in particular towards the agricultural sector. Spain. Spain will be very similar to Portugal because, given that their connected markets worked in terms of electricity, they did the same, but they proposed additional measures, which are a reduction of VAT from 21 per cent to 10 per cent, for customers with less than 10 kilowatts of contracted power, and a temporary suspension of production tax of 7 per cent by 30 September. Furthermore, on 14 September 2021, Spain adopted a new Royal Decree introducing a temporary deduction of market revenues for non-CO2 power plants in order to reduce customer accounts. Furthermore, it is similar to that in Romania, because Spain again applied the system of the island system, so what Portugal, the same as Spain. Then we have Sweden. On 13 January 2022, Swedish Finance Minister Mikael Damberg announced an allocation of EUR 590 million to help households, which are most affected by sharply rising electricity prices. They consume more than 2,000 kilowatt hours per month, involving 1.8 million households, which will receive a compensation of EUR 195 per month for each month. Furthermore, on 21 March, the government presented a new package of measures to address the rising price of fuels and electricity as a result of the invasion of Ukraine, and the oil tax and gasoline tax will be temporarily reduced from June to October to the lowest level permitted by the European Union, and overall, Sweden will cost €360 million. Furthermore, a compensation payment of EUR 96 to 144 was approved for private individuals who own the car. So they're dealing with it in a different way than reducing the price of petrol and diesel, but they're dealing with some car subsidies. From July to December 2022, the housing allowance for families with children is also increased and the additional child allowance will be 25 per cent of the preliminary housing allowance and will amount to a maximum of EUR 128 per month. Total costs are estimated at EUR 48 million. And now we will jump outside the European Union into the United Kingdom. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the system, the supplier of the last instance to which the national regulator assigns customers of bankrupt firms to new providers is considering offering government loans to energy companies that take customers from companies that fail due to high wholesale gas prices. However, there will be no rewards for failure or mismanagement and no financial assistance will be provided to smaller firms. The energy regulator has since October increased the ceiling of the most used tariffs after the previous increase in April to 12 and 13 % due to high wholesale costs. The government is also saving key CO2 producers to avoid disrupting the food supply chain. It's probably related, the food production, quite, we'll take the bakeries and all that, it'll be ethically demanding, which means they're getting £500 million in money from the fund. So it is not here for whom it is directly granted, but the contribution is granted in the amount of 100 to 300 pounds. We've exhausted these things, and I'm just gonna get to one little thing at the end, I'm gonna be short, it's gonna be over. Again, I haven't noticed... [[He's turning to the news desk.]] Sorry, through Mr President, he hasn't noticed the details. [[I am.]] Yes, thank you. And now just one little thing, and that's one thing we need to think about. We have some energy resources, and we want to get to some energy security, energy autonomy. I guess we've all already said that the path at the core is the right path, and we support the expansion of the construction of Dukovan and Temelín, and I wouldn't hesitate to start the expansion of Temelín immediately, because in those processes that will run, I think it will go hand in hand, and maybe it could contribute to a more significant price for the technology that works. Furthermore, I would not forget to dust off the paperwork that in the Czech Republic until 2008 counted on four nuclear power plants. And whoever doesn't know it, I'll remind you of the place. There is one place between Pardubice and Hradec Králové, through Mr President, almost for the President here, and the second place is in North Moravia and in the global, these places were long ago designed in search of the so-called solid ground, because when you talk with Dana Drábová, she will explain to you that although it is a stable and massive whole, there are measured seismic positions and there are four zones in the Czech Republic, where even during the earthquake that you registered in the Czech Republic, there has never been anything more than 0.4 of Richter's scale, which is virtually nothing at all. Well, what can we do next? So how do we get to the renewable energy? Well, I was looking at Austria's pattern. To continue to extract electricity from the water, however, we would have to build tanks. The project exists, I think the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture participated in it, but mostly it encounters a little resistance from citizens. And it's always going to be very important what we get, what we lose, what we put together, but this water is probably a very important so-called balancing source. What else do we have? Furthermore, we can use some fans in the global on limited territory, because the Czech Republic is not completely built like Austria. I guess you could build something. I don't count the performance. If you're talking to some green energy organizations, they're probably gonna count some of those performances, but I'm still saying that windmill performance and photovoltaic performance are important when we allow you to build battery storage and switch to a system of so-called island systems. [[17.30 hours]] Then we have some savings to make, but these savings are probably related to the performance that we're going to give here. And I always remember the savings when we saved up with the water. Today we are one of the most successful because our daily water consumption is, I think, the lowest in the whole European Union. Not that we're dirty, but I think we can do it very well, effectively. Then it climbed up the price of water somewhere up to a hundred crowns, so much less, the price. So I'd be very careful there, too. Well, then, I guess there's some kind of thing that's going to be in the single energy market, where we take over and regulate individual currents and electrical power outlets. This is also not much fun, because we have been warned by Čeps that we will expect relatively large and massive investments in these systems, although we have a robust system, we have a great system. And if it wasn't for us, Austria, even Germany had gone to blackout several times. And we will have to talk wisely about what to do next, what year or what period to use fossil resources, when to start a clear diversion. And then we're gonna pray for the technology that I'm very fond of, but I'm always a little pessimist as long as it's on my desk, and that's hydrogen technology and small nuclear reactors. I've exhausted what I've been meaning to tell you. I had such a need to have a nice chat. And I agree, we will, of course, support the law as yes. He's very reasonable. And I think it will be a new opportunity for the Economic Committee to open up more and more topics. Thank you for your attention, and I hope I didn't tire you too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance brought up factual remarks. He was the first to make a factual statement... [[The rapporteur responds that he's reporting, too.]] I know. You're just here with the facts. So we prefer now and then with priority rights. Thank you. So I'd like to ask Mrs Olga Richterová, the lady of the house, who's applied for de facto. He's not here. Never mind. Well, then, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u10	Yes, thank you. Mr President, Dear Ministers, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to thank my honourable colleague Roman Kubíček, through you, for the awareness he has given us here about the energy situation in Europe, and how he addresses the problems. I think these are topics that can be used for the negotiation of a more professional part of our honourable Parliament, our honourable House, in expert committees. I think that what was here about promoting energy poverty is part of the Social Committee and maybe the rest is part of the Economic Committee. I'm not at all opposed to discussing this. But don't be mad at me, there's something else I want to tell you. You know, this bill, actually a parliamentary proposal here today at this extraordinary meeting, is more or less a coincidence, it wasn't an intention, because he doesn't belong here, in that extraordinary meeting. And I'm a little sorry that colleagues and colleagues from the opposition are simply taking advantage of the situation. I don't mind. I'm not complaining. I'm not complaining. I'm used to everything in Parliament over the years. I'm not complaining. I'm just commenting. In fact, it is a parliamentary proposal on which all or those who understand this within the various parliamentary clubs agree. And the fact that the pirát aren't signed, it's just a coincidence, but they agreed to it, too. And once again, for colleagues who are going to talk in the debate, I don't know what, because it's so stupidly simple, really stupidly simple that I thought everyone would understand. But I understand the situation at this meeting. I get it. Good for you. For real. Like me, I have a personal feeling, but it doesn't concern you either, because I feel like every good deed has to be punished rightfully. And I did the good deed when I actually blew up the individual MPs here to sign it to help this economic sector get into serious trouble if we don't make a decision. And I also want to thank you for your support. That's what I'm saying out here. But on the other hand, my friends, really, I don't like to say that word, as a certain political party, I'd rather say, colleagues, I'm sorry, colleagues, and colleagues, of course, but first colleagues and then colleagues. [[Fun in the hall.]] You know what I've never seen here in this House before? To enable Members to build their own proposal. And now I don't mean it in a bad way like the word obstruction. Like I'd understand if the opposition as one man and a woman here were wooing at a government proposal. I totally understand that. I did it, too. I'll confess. We've been through all this. Most of you know that the opposition's role in this is much easier than coalition's. The fact that you're talking to us here, sometimes you raise your voice to us, you send us somewhere nicely, today I hear something about a madhouse, and I'll tell you one thing at a end. But so be it. And we're just gnashing our teeth quietly, aren't we? Because we support some coalition program, which, of course, is the result of hard coalition negotiations. And you know it, too. Let's just say, that's just the way it is. But this is a different case. This is a really different case. Don't be mad at me, I'm asking all of you to think about how you're going to proceed. And I don't mean that you're saving yourself time. We'll be here by morning anyway. Let's face it. That doesn't matter at all. I say you do what you want in government proposals. But let's not make fools of ourselves if we're gonna build our own parliamentary proposal here, which is really needed for the segment. And if we don't, we're really gonna get that segment in real trouble. I say this with full knowledge of the responsibility of understanding that Parliament can do anything. You can do anything that allows you to do the Rules of Procedure. I'm begging you not to. And I will repeat again what the bill is about. It's a very simple thing. It completes the scope of the mandatory persons quite correctly and extends the time limit when you can request an honest statement of support for the biomass segment. That's all. And maybe I'll just say this provocative thing at the end. If you like the way I'm a little angry here, I'll make you happy. Rejoice, you've got me, I've got an elevated voice and I don't like it. But on the other hand, who likes to make his own proposals from Members, I will say it differently than President Babiš. You know, over Boleslav, over Mlada Boleslav, is a beautiful hill. There's such a beautiful church building, a lorette, a beautiful church. And who likes it, there's also a special facility, and the town is called Kosmonosy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u11	Your performance brought up factual remarks. Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak with the first, followed by Mr králíček, Mr Vondráček. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u12	I must, Mr Member, through Mr President. That's not obstruction. If we're talking business here, it's not obstruction. I looked back historicalally, I went through the performances. And when the EET was here, Mr Kalousek here read the directive. We don't do that. We don't do that. We're not reading a directive. I could also take the RED II directive and read it to you all over here. And it's 135 pages. It's not enough. 135 pages. And I don't think that's the right discussion to be here. So this is what we are. I think that we all have some speeches that we want to defend here, and we will be happy to have you discussing this with us, because if I look into the ranks of opposition Members or coalition Members, sorry, there are not many Members here. And I waited... [[The rapporteur's reaction: they're watching TV.]] They're watching TV. Well, I'm sorry. They're watching TV. Well, I greet you from TV or TV. But in any case, I expected that there would be some discussion, that there would be some discussion. The way you said they were addicted to it by knowing the history, I know how it went, and I understand that if I really do by 1. The 7th will not be decided... [[The rapporteur's response.]] Everything's clear to me. But I'm saying we want this discussion here, and that's why we're going to perform. And I think we're all qualitatively prepared to have this discussion here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u13	Another point of fact was made by Mr králíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u14	I already feel like I'm getting some of his stuff from Mr Nacher because I didn't want to perform, but, as my colleague Adamec said, through Mr President, he provoked us, so he just provoked me. I am sorry for the insults I have listened to in the past four years to the address of the members of the ANO movement. I'm not going to name who said it all. And now there's that bitchy noise. I don't think Mr. Kubíček would say anything that offends anyone, that should upset someone or provoke someone. I understand you don't like it, I understand it's politics. You did it in the last term, we're doing it now in this parliamentary term, and in the next term, someone's gonna do it again. But I don't think we have to send each other to Cosmonos or say we're that kind of maniac. We're not telling you either, so let's stick to the material plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. What you are, we were. What we are, you will be. Mr. Radek Vondráček next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. A lot of people are performing here, so I volunteered too. I think the performance of my precious colleague, Mr. Adamec, was correct to keep the plain. And it's just sometimes part of the parliament that we meet here, because sometimes I kind of like it. I'm not an expert on biogas, so I'll take it from another side. I believe it's very simple. I've also heard the notes about the madhouse and the Kosmonosy. But on the other hand, Mr Speaker, through the President, and you, the coalition of the government, explain to me and tell me one rational reason why we are dealing with this at an extraordinary meeting! We could have really scored it next week on Tuesday as the first point. This is a point that doesn't belong in an emergency meeting. He doesn't even fit the individual points. And I've been there for that, too, for that matter, for that matter. So it's nothing new. But since we're talking about the race, there's a reasonable reason why we're dealing with this today, why we don't have a proper meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u17	Thank you and the other one registered with the factual remark is Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I have not sent anyone anywhere. I'm the one who mentioned it. Who likes it? Plus, when Mrs. Peštová here said, through you, something about reading those lists, and so on, of course, that's what happened here. But it was happening with the government proposals. I mean, I remember EET, I was sitting there, I know it, I know it. And the fact that this wasn't listed, an emergency meeting, don't blame me! I just didn't get the deadline, it came from the government. But I say again, every good deed will be punished for good. I'm not complaining. When a parliament sits, one is not sure of property or life! And that's true until now, let's face it. That's an old British proverb, and it's true until now, a little bit in a different form than the old Brit were used to, but it's still true. I'm not complaining, I'm just commenting. And I wanted to ask you guys to take that as a matter of fact. It's my request. I'm not ordering you, of course I can't. It's my request to deal with it, then let's deal with those things that the government's putting in place. I understand that then. But in this case, it seems to me a little bit that we're shooting each other in the ankle, who put it in the cross-section of the entire House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. A number of other factual points. I'm just gonna say the three closest ones so you can get ready. Mrs Pastuchová, Mrs Dostálová will follow, then Mrs Peštová. Thank you. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President, I did not want to speak either, but I must turn against what you have said here, my colleague. You recommended that there is a nice hill above Mlada Boleslav and his name is Kosmonosy. I have to express myself because I know the hill, and as a paramedic, I took several patients from the Liberec Region to this hill. I went over there. Have you been there? Don't really use this here because there are mentally ill people, they have a diagnosis, and I don't know what's funny about this, I really don't know. Go see what kind of people are lying there. That you're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mrs Dostálová came forward with another factual remark. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u22	Thank you very much. Of course, I understand my colleague, Mr. Speaker, by your means, I understand, I understand. On the other hand, please, whenever we wanted to put the energy point on the program, you rejected it. So don't be surprised that we have a lot of energy issues that we just want to say at an open point. So it's just like it's not possible to just put it on us all the time. We're glad we're talking about energy here, and energy topics... I, too, may have a performance on energy, because it really bothers many investors, and it bothers citizens, and we have to talk about it at some point. If you don't want to put it as a proper point of the meeting, we've tried it many times, look at the records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Another with a point of fact is Mrs Peštová. And I ask that Mr Juchelka be prepared with a factual remark, Mrs Fialová will follow. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u24	She's already partially told my previous speaker, Mrs Klára Dostálová. I wanted to say something similar. But I'm sure if I speak to Mr Adamec now, through Mr President, and I say, if you'll be so kind to the next extraordinary meeting that starts ten minutes after this meeting, and you approve the programme, I'll be glad. And believe me, that's not gonna happen. So that's why we're going to have a debate here, and that's why we're going to try to open the topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u25	Thank you and please Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm just going to do a little correction on what my honourable colleague, Mr Adamec, said here, by means of you, that de facto someone is building up their own parliamentary proposals. I have witnessed several parliamentary proposals during the last parliamentary term and have submitted them myself. My ones weren't wired, we agreed on them across the political spectrum. However, I recall a number of parliamentary proposals from among the coalitions that were signed across the political spectrum, which the opposition has been very hard on the part of the opposition, especially in relation to the revision of social benefits. I remember it up until now, as it was read and read and read here, especially from the pirát' pen, who have been building up a few of these social designs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u27	Thank you and please Mrs Fialová, with a factual remark. Mr Adamec is reporting with fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, I would also like to respond to why we want to discuss this. She partially said it both Klára Dostálová and Berenika Peštová. This is because the government has not yet submitted any appropriate proposal to address poverty and address the energy crisis for citizens of the Czech Republic. You took it, yes, Mr. Speaker. Thanks to the fact that at least one point has opened up here, and we have the opportunity, including other Members, not only with priority rights, to raise questions that we do not receive answers when our Members are trying to present their points here, where you will always reject our energy-related agenda. So if the government had put forward some of its own proposals to address the energy crisis, perhaps there would be no debate today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Another of the entries with a factual remark is Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I am performing for the last time, I promise I will stop now. She has a beautiful nuance. You need to listen to yourself. I don't understand Mrs. Pastuchová's anger, I really don't. I didn't say it the way she interpreted it, I'm very careful not to insult anyone and insult anyone in that facility, not really. It's not like that. We need to dive into the Czech language a little bit. Czech is a magical speech, it's hard, it's complicated, I get it, but you need to listen to yourself. I'll tell you one thing. I'm the petitioner for the Grémium, and I can't answer those answers anyway, what you need to hear in your discussions. And I would ask the President, therefore, to see to it that we stick hard to the subject, and this is the bill, as it was put forward. I'm really begging you. It's not worth it, because no one here will react to you from the government. There's no one here. Otherwise, I wanted to reassure you that we will certainly get there, because the Minister of Trade and Industry told me today that a programme is being prepared and that the debate will definitely take place, not only on the Committee's floor, but also on the House's floor. At least that's how I see it as a promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. And since there is no more factual point, another of the entries for the debate is Mr Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u32	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, both of you, Mr Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to start something a little different, but I will, with permission, turn it around so that it is in some context, because I think that the Member should be able to improvise and respond to the debate as it takes place here. I was deliberately looking back at the way we discussed and how long some proposals were. And I'm going to take, for example, the sales log that's been designed here. And colleagues, colleagues, it might surprise you, but it took a year here in the Chamber of Deputies. We've been discussing this place for a year. It was always interrupted, continued, interrupted, and so forth, and so forth. If you look at the number of hours it took, it was some, and now don't take my word for it, thirty, thirty, two, thirty, four hours. This means that the opposition then, the current coalition, has surrounded 32 hours, which is not so much. However, since we then observed a certain point that the meeting day ended at 7:00, at the most at 9:00, the 32 hours could reach you beautifully for that year. In other laws, if you're interested, I can introduce you here tomorrow. It took six months, record is a year and a half. But by not keeping track of the end of the day, we're just going nonstop. So we're gonna go through one night for the same 32 hours because you guys are gonna go to power. And that's where you see and see the big difference. And obstruction is part of some form of coercion of the minority against the majority to end it with some kind of agreement, like the order of the points that they've gone through. Well, in this case, unfortunately, you're not willing to talk about those points, some constructive agreement. You just put five controversial points in there. Yes, it's true that this point is out of the question. I totally agree with my honored colleague, Ivan Adamec. Then I'll talk about it, too. He's completely out of control. By the way, for me, it's the only meaningful point in that extraordinary meeting, which is sadly, of the six points, it's the only one that's responding to the current situation. That's the second thing. So now it's like he got away with it because it's part of the approval of some kind of agenda for the whole meeting. I'm bohužel so. I'm sorry. I am willing to apologize to my colleague here through the President, even directly, because he is really innocent, but he is. But the context of the situation that needs to be heard here is that if you respect that the meeting day ends at 7:00, 9:00, then just some controversial points that are controversial to the opposition will take weeks, months like last time it was mirrored the other way around. And as I say, the example of EET is quite typical. You guys were just nervous about not waking up on Friday three weeks ago, one day. But as I'm saying, I'm gonna remind you, I'm gonna show you the exact data here, it took a year, the negotiation. It's just part of it. And I remember those debates of the type where Zbyněk Stanjura came to us and said, "If you put EET first, there's nothing else to discuss. And that's what happened. So then the next Friday, we've already included some other things before the EET that we wanted to discuss. And that's the deal between the opposition and the coalition. I'm explaining this whole place completely flat because people are asking about it, the obstructions, what's the point, the nightingale and all that. It wouldn't normally be nighttime if it ended at 7:00 tonight, 9:00 at the most, something goes on, definitely the first point, definitely, but maybe the second point is very controversial. Taking 14 billion health care money right now, that's what deserves the opposition to come forward on this. So many explanations and now what we're talking about here. When you look into public space, the most common debate on this subject is energy price growth, energy self-sufficiency, it's finally talked about, energy poverty, it's going to be an increasingly frequent term now, and I'm talking about it here in connection with executions, and growth in the number of executions. By the way, one current issue, last year, the number of executions dropped by 20,000, but it won't happen again. Now I think the situation will only get worse. And what's the government's reaction? And that is an explanation of why we respond to this, Mr colleague, that from six points - the things I mentioned here - the rise in energy prices, energy self-sufficiency, energy poverty, and the threat of growth in the number of executions - are essentially affected by this amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources. Just this, of the six points that should respond to the current situation in society. I'll remind you to have a different parallel. When we were here in the last parliamentary term, and the colleague was there because he is a member of the Economic Committee, they were dealing with the problem of the boys and various intermediaries, there was an amendment to the Energy Act, which dealt with the energy industry, because it was a response to the situation outside this building. And outside this building, we're dealing with energy self-sufficiency, the fact that people are actually losing money to pay bills. And out of the six points of an extraordinary meeting - watch out, we're in an emergency meeting - we're on the side, barely even doing it, dedicated to this proposal, which, even if I read it, is incomprehensible to those people, however useful it is. The proposal envisages that compliance with the sustainability conditions of greenhouse gas savings for biomass should be documented until the end of this year, by the end of 2022, not only by appropriate document under the European regulation, but also by an honest statement, which, in turn, extends the time. Thank God for that, there are also signed by all the MPs across here, as I understand here, except maybe one when I see those names, a little club. But I don't think it's worth talking about. And that's the message. And we, as opposition, draw attention to that. I understand and say again that I sympathize with my colleague. Thank God it's the first point. But from the six points, the energy touches a little bit -- the one who understands it a little bit, so just a little bit, it's not the answer to the questions -- just one. And if you look, it's with those six points of your extraordinary meeting, and then it's ours that's supposed to be ten minutes after that, and there are the answers. [[Mr Benda from the bench argues that Mr Nacher is not speaking to the point.]] That's where the answers are. Mr. Colleague, are we allowed to interrupt like this? Shall we? [[Mr Benda reminds again that Mr Nacher is not speaking to the point.]] I'm speaking to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u33	I would ask not to communicate with each other in this form, or take a word. I will ask the Member to comment on the matter as much as possible. We are still talking about the agenda of the meeting. Thank you. [[Disadvised reactions from the O.R.]] Sorry, we're talking to a point. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u34	So I'm gonna keep going. I think it's kind of weird yelling, there's a third of us, maybe not, and we're still yelling at each other here. My colleague Benda didn't hear me because he was entering the O.R., and I responded to the debate that was here before. I have the opportunity either to respond to this in my speech, where I describe the proposal and the context of why we are expressing ourselves and what has been said here, or I can apply ten times to a factual remark to explain this in fact. I didn't sign up for a deed once, so I'm sorry. But for the context, it wanted to explain it here. [[18.00 hours]] So one more time. For our extraordinary meeting, all four points relate either to fuel or to energy prices, whether we are talking about temporary VAT exemption or, therefore, I am talking about it and therefore it is related, not that it is not related, we also have a proposal from Mr Karel Havlíček, Mr Alena Schillerová, Jana Pastuchová, who is changing the same law 165, about supported energy sources, but which changes it so that those households do not have to pay for some time. We're talking about the same law, even at another meeting. And I wanted to ask here because we're here in Section 90, which means it's one vote here, there's no amendment, there's no amendment in the '90s. There are no amendments, not that they will. That's the principle of the '90s that it's just one vote. That is, I want to ask the appellant how he and his colleagues will stand up to the proposal concerning the same law, the amendment or the Act on supported energy sources, which is really supposed to save these people, so that at least the part that relates to supported energy sources in that invoice doesn't even know it applies, so if they support it. Whether they support it or not, because of course you're not going to support this extraordinary meeting, but if you support it in terms of classification to a normal point or not, because it's about the very same law, even if it's a little bit different material. And that seems to me to be a very fundamental question that has something to do with it, that you may as well be angry with me from the left, from the right, he has. The last point is, and it is such a sigh that it is true that, in fact, this useful and meaningful proposal is ultimately a proposal to the MPs, unfortunately, not to the government. And here I would also remind you again, when you were in opposition and we were in the coalition, so you criticized that the government was unable to present anything and that it would then be replaced by parliamentary initiatives, even though I thought it was right and I still consider it right for Members to take initiative and come up with something or change some government proposal. Here I am reminding you that all these proposals are one Senate, three Government and two Members' proposals. This is one of them, which is the most meaningful, but unfortunately it is only a parliamentary proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. [[Ambassador Ivan Adamec from the news station: I want to respond to this.]] You want to make a point of fact? [[Member Marek Benda from the O.R.: The rapporteur has priority rights.]] I know, but I just didn't know if you wanted actual. With priority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to address the honourable colleague Patrik Nacher through you. There's really no way out of here. Don't be mad at me. These are two different proposals, and here, like our MP's proposal at the moment, this meeting concerns the promotion of biomass. If we don't do this, the market will get into serious trouble and de facto people who, for example, take heat or electricity out of these sources will get into trouble. I say that quite frankly. Your proposal says something else that people will not pay, or part of the citizens will not pay the item on renewables, which is a diametrically different material at the moment, (i) when it comes to the same law. But it doesn't have anything to do with each other. And I would ask you not to combine it, because this is the fact that if we don't do it in accordance with Section 90, it just ends badly. That doesn't actually rule out the fact that if your parliamentary proposal goes into some sort of reading, of course we can talk about parameters then and about such things, it's classic for three readings, it's not in my 90's, and there's definitely not such a big deal about it, and when it comes to citizens, you might think so, I don't quite think so, but if we put this to bed. [[I?]] I say this quite frankly, please, let us not combine this, because this is really about something that can't be postponed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. It raised some factual points. Mr Nacher came forward first, Mrs Peštová signed up next. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u38	Mr colleague, through Mr President, I also did not say that these are the same things. I said they're different materials. That's what I said. That's what's on the tape. Different materials, albeit the same law. But I wanted to use it to ask a question, after all, we said in the hallway that I would ask, because since the law is already open here, and it concerns biomass, I understand it, but when we talk about this issue in general, these people are asking about it and they are interested. After all, there is nothing against the fact that one Member asks another, who is a co-president, which means there is some reasonable expectation that he is also close to the subject which concerns the same law, albeit other material, and has some opinion about it. And that sounds to me like I can ask the question, and you can and you don't have to answer it. That they weren't connected, that's what I said. But that in general it has something to do with a problem, it's like it does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Another with a point of fact is Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In any case, it doesn't matter whether they're connected or not. That law, once it's open, you can put amendments in that law, and it doesn't matter if you can. You can do the law. Once you've opened the law, you're opening the law, because you've put in an amendment to the law, even if you're just saying with some minor modification. It's not even legt, or maybe it could be said that it's legt, but I think it's on the edge. In any case, once you open the law, you can basically put anything in that law. Because the law is open. It's here, it's not like it's a habit. That's just the way it is. If I have a change law, then by means of a change law, where a lot of other laws are open, I can re-enter those laws. Then I can talk about whether it's a sticker or not. For me, the sticker is in the moment when I open another law that isn't open at all. That's really a sticker for me. What Patrik Nacher actually said, through Mr President, is not excluded. That's not gonna be ruled out at all, and basically, if this were added to it and it didn't go back to 90, those terms could be shortened. They can shorten the deadline, and they can put it there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u41	I ask Mr Adamec to take a factual point in the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u42	I'm gonna turn myself in one more time. I understand you're rushing the pace now because you've got it by 1. 7. I understand all that. I've studied the whole thing completely, and I know the POZE I put RED II in. I think I'm pretty much in the loop. But in any case, we've been trying to make a point here all along, and this would be a solution for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. In fact, I don't see anyone. Mr Adamec wants to respond again? Apparently not. Then the next one entered in the debate is Mrs Ožanová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, group of Members - Ivan Adamec z ODS, Radim Fiala za SPD, Roman Kubíček za YES 2011, Michal Kučera za TOP 09, Ondřej Lochman za STAN and Antonín Tesařík za KDU - submitted on 21 March 2022 a draft law amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 382/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended. This is a case of good cooperation across the political parties, although we almost heard something else a moment ago. However, the submitted press seeks to address a certain part of the market segment and concerns biomass and biomass fuels. In order to have an idea why the expansion of this market segment must be encouraged, I would like to turn your attention to one important area for both citizens and the entire economy, and that is the price of heat. [[18.10 hours]] I would like to quote from the press release of the Teplářské sdružení České republiky: Teplářská společnost currently deals mainly with the turbulent development of energy prices on the market. They're growing practically all the cargo items. The prices of black coal increased sharply to double in 2021, the prices of electricity and gas increased fourfold. This year, energy prices have increased even more and reach historically highest values. This will, of course, also affect the prices of heat and hot water supplies in 2022. - The article is at the end of 2021 so that we can be more in the picture. The second long-term challenge facing the heat plant is the modernisation and ecology of heat plants, including a gradual transition to cleaner fuels and a complete diversion from coal. The new priority currently addressed by the heating companies is energy self-sufficiency, which comes to the fore in connection with the war in Ukraine and the related diversion from Russian gas supplies. The goal of leaving the coal plants remains valid, but the roads to it can be different due to the development of the war in Ukraine, adds Martin Hájek. - So much for the quote. The Czech Heating Association expected the largest annual heat increase in the last 13 years by the end of 2021. It was assumed that price growth could be double-digit. For heating the apartment, the household will also pay several thousand crowns. They see the reason for the increase in fuel and emission allowances. The largest increase in heat prices is expected by natural gas heating plants. A significantly smaller but still significant increase in the price of heat produced from coal, which will significantly reflect the increase in the price of allowances, and, in the case of coal, the price of the fuel itself. About energy can be found on the website oEnergy.cz which I dare to draw from. Now, about how we're going about black coal. In view of the situation in Ukraine, black coal is being re-used. For example, the Dětmarovice Power Plant in Karvinsko will use coal longer than expected. The CEZ Group, which operates the power plant, originally wanted to shut down three coal blocks with a total output of 600 megawatts at the latest after the heating season in the spring of 2023. However, given the situation on the energy markets, their operation will be prolonged. On request of ČTK, ČEZ Group spokesperson Vladislav Sobol told this. The Czech Republic and other countries of the European Union have recently faced rising energy prices. The situation deteriorated even further after the Russian invasion of Ukraine launched on 24 February. Representatives of OKD and the Ministry of Finance told journalists last week that coal mining in Karvinsk would take longer than expected. They said it was approved by the board of OKD. Last year, the power plant produced over 1.2 terawatt hours of electricity and almost 780,000 gigajoules of heat. More than 410 000 tonnes of coal were delivered to the power plant, less than half of which came from OKD. For example, five years ago, coal supplies exceeded 1.2 million tonnes, from OKD it was almost 80 percent. Preparations for the construction of low-emission heat sources, which will ensure the supply of heat for Bohumín and Orlovová in the future, continue in Dětmarovice according to the spokesperson. For example, CHP units and boiler are being prepared to burn biomass. For example, a photovoltaic power plant is in play in the future. Heat plant Dětmarovice has been in operation since 1975, with an output of 800 megawatts it was the most powerful black coal burning plant in the Czech Republic. In addition to the supply of electricity to the network, it provides heat and hot water for approximately 38 000 inhabitants of Eagle and Bohumín. Nearly 200 people work at the power plant. I've been living in this area right now, and I've been working in Eagle for over 15 years, which is why I took the liberty of pointing out that we're going to have to use coal after all. And now I will return directly to this proposal. Let us return to simpler rhetoric for many. We need heat and the submitted amendment complements the producer, importer and supplier of biomass fuels as a mandatory person to demonstrate compliance with sustainability criteria, because without their proof, the producer does not have the energy that uses biomass fuel from them, or the producer of biomass, how to demonstrate compliance with sustainability criteria itself. Yes, we need this law, and I thank all my colleagues across the political parties for presenting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, Madame. And another entered into the general debate is Mrs Dostálová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. I have already announced that, within this point, I would very much like to look at what is actually causing energy prices to rise, and that is the growth of building materials and construction works. I think you are certainly all in your neighborhood because building materials have increased by tens and hundreds of percent in recent months, and this is the result of inflation and, in particular, rising energy prices as a basic input into the cost of products and services. The problems concern mainly those suppliers who are bound by firm contracts. In this way, suppliers take the risk of developing the price of materials. However, the potential failure of the supplier and thus the failure to complete the contracts may ultimately be more expensive for the contracting authority. Especially for mayors and municipalities, we see this very intensively now, because of course they are already looking for ways to develop from the contract, that is, how to get out of the built-up construction. Then the mayors have to compete again. The Ministry of Regional Development, together with the Office for the Protection of Competition, has prepared methodological materials and procedures available on the public procurement portal for contracting authorities. Contracting authorities thus have an instrument with which they can respond to price increases in construction contracts, both in the case of procurement documents and in the case of contracts concluded. I think we can agree that it is not good for the price of materials to grow at the same rate as it has been. This threatens not only the entire industry, but also the housing construction or the construction of civic amenities. The year two and a half of the world's high price growth has already spilled into rising inflation, in which it is always reflected with a delay. Energy price growth will also affect world investment activity, which is partially delayed due to expensive energies. Prices of key building materials continue to rise. We see this not only according to published price indices of building materials, which are compiled by RTS, but also in project practice. For example, prices of flat aluminium products are at twice last year's prices, concrete steel reinforcement has increased and since last summer it has stagnated at prices higher by almost 80 per cent. The brick-burned masonry is 30 percent higher, OSB plates are sold at up to three times the previous prices and are already more expensive by 70 percent. Currently, the rise in energy prices, which has been really dramatic in recent months, is being addressed. At the same time, it should also be recalled that European building materials prices can increase the planned building fever of projects associated with the Green Deal of the European Union or with the now expected building of additional capacities to eliminate Europe's dependence on Russian gas. In the short term, their construction will be linked to increased European demand for building materials. It will now depend on how Europe will react in particular. The delay of Green Deal itself would reduce the pressure to increase the prices of building materials, which the construction industry shares especially with industry. Construction can now wait to interrupt or stop construction for some projects. For example, RAVAK, according to its press secretary, has already registered that some investors are reviewing their investment plans as a result of price developments. According to the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, however, it will have an impact on stopping or interrupting the construction of, in particular, the availability of workers. Their loss is felt now and their longer-term replacement will be very difficult. At the same time, it significantly increased the third factor in the performance of construction, i.e. financing. Construction has one of the longest production processes in all fields, and therefore the cost of time, i.e. interest rate, affects it even more urgently than the rest of the economy. For this reason, we can wait not for stopping, but for example for a temporary interruption of construction and how investment projects can change investors who will be able to solve the financing issue better. [[18.20 hours]] Of course, I can also give examples from a different field than the construction industry, such as the food industry. We have been approached by bakers, and we may need to remind ourselves that really energy prices are appropriate, because the inputs that bakers need to produce have risen by tens of percent. A significant part of their costs is the gas on which they bake bread and, of course, wheat. When we sum up these two increases with others, we got a year-on-year increase of about 75 per cent, as Bohumil Hlavatý, director of the Bakers' Union and Confectioners' Union, says. Of course, the possibility is to replace the gas with electricity. For example, bakers say that last January you would still buy an ordinary roll for an average of 1.80 crowns, today it costs you over 2.30 and we will not stay for this amount according to bakers and economists. Of course, no one knows how far this can go. So far, this is partly the case with bakery companies, but the longer this situation lasts, the more they will really have to transfer prices to consumers. The main price mover is now expensive gas and what would happen if Russia stopped supplying it to the Czech Republic. At this point, the gas is really irreplaceable. It is very difficult to replace it with electric furnaces because energy consumption is enormous. As Mr. Hlavatý says, a month ago, we ordered three electric furnaces to cover at least 40 percent of our production. Standardly, we have eight gas. However, it must be seriously added that if the Czech Republic was cut off from gas, the bakery would not immediately lose it. It belongs to a critical infrastructure that receives it first and foremost, but it is clear that increasing energy prices and potential potential gas outages need to be addressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Balaštíková. I'm gonna ask you to stick to the subject at best. The law is about renewable energy sources. I'm sure there's a wider overlap in energy, but to hold on to those renewables in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u48	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I am in favour of this law, because biogas station technology will allow farms and farmers not only to process waste generated by their own activities, but also to process waste from other entities, including the biodegradable component of separated municipal waste, and thus to obtain, in addition to income from agricultural production, income from production and from the sale of electricity, or other fertilisers from the digestate, as well as income from the treatment of municipal waste. Biogas stations process both by-products and industrial and municipal waste and are therefore an integral part of the whole process. Biogas stations may be agricultural, where, of course, the operator is most often a larger agricultural holding, which some of my colleagues do not like to hear, or municipal and industrial stations related to sewage treatment plants, where the operator is the city or industrial enterprise. Of course, we also include landfill gas in the category of biogas stations, which is controlledly produced and collected from waste landfills. At the same time, the way biogas is produced is also an advantage, but unfortunately also a limit, because on the one hand there is a wide range of crops suitable for its production, biogas can also be produced from biowaste, but it is limited in quantity, it is linked to local production, and therefore it is a large limit for its spread to cities. The undoubted advantage of biogas is the high energy yield and the absence of by-products, but the limit is unfortunately sometimes costly cleaning, when we actually have to clean the quality of natural gas. Unfortunately, in the Czech Republic biogas is clearly a minority fuel, probably most often used by some transport companies, which also arrange their own production. Methane in the form of CNG or biogas has more supporters in these different countries than in the Czech Republic. Before the energy crisis that occurred here, there was also an increasing tendency in the Czech Republic to use biomethane. Cars that run biometane have a much quieter course compared to petrol. Thanks to the physical properties of methane, biogas and CNB vehicles are safer than petrol and diesel or LPG vehicles. Emissions from the combustion of biomethane are as low as from the combustion of natural gas. And the growing interest of the general public in environmentally less harmful fuel was given precisely by the favourable price of fuel, but I also think a sincere interest in the ecologically more favourable impact of the current civilization on the environment. Unfortunately, unfortunately, this is damned today, because the economy is pushing low prices of this drive up, and today's owners of vehicles on this type of drive seem to have to deal with the same price policy as the owners of vehicles on traditional fuel mixes. However, I see the future of biogas stations as a priority, and I think it should also be the priority of this government, and especially of the Ministry of Agriculture, as I say, of all of us, because this ministry feeds us. Biogas stations are mostly agricultural, which is why they are also built near cows or pigs, because they can be used as a source of gas. Of course, we can use the biogas station to produce heat and electricity. We will utilize manure, manure, animal waste, plant waste, biodegradable waste and cleaning sludge. The biogas station uses, of course, anaerobic digestion, when the material decomposes without air supply and it produces biogas, which is collected and used for other purposes. So the other option, of course, is the combined production of heat and electricity in cogeneration units, because the production of electricity from biogas alone is not effective. However, everything is consumed in agriculture and biogas production is an unthinkable part of today's modern farm with good economic performance. [[irresistible]] I say this - especially with good economic performance, because it will not really concern the small farms. I'm sorry, but let's just say that only really big farmers can use such equipment. I believe that the Czech Republic has great potential in the use of biomass and biogas stations are one way to exploit biomass. The heat production is particularly beneficial. Recently, the interest has really increased before the crisis, but I fear that if the support measures do not come, the interest will fall again and it is to the detriment of the Czech Republic. We are currently registering 550 biogas agricultural stations. I would expect the Minister of Agriculture to fight for the development of this commodity and its support for agricultural holdings. We're surplus corn and corn. I understand that part of the world is starving and the food crisis is coming to us, but I think we should make use of these crops primarily for our citizens, and I would like to see the Minister of Agriculture start really regulating and slowing down Green Deal on EU soil, and in the context that biogas and, in fact, biogas systems represent energy resources with highly positive environmental benefits. Although biogas is not yet able to push fossil fuels out of their dominant position in the energy market, especially today it has completely unlimited prospects for future use. That is why I would like science and research to be more concerned, in fact, with the development of equipment that would support the use of biogas. Just so you know, the oldest biogas station in the Czech Republic is agricultural, it's in Třeboň. Please, it's been working since 1974, and as a source of energy, it's been using pork kegs and dry-cleaning sludge. [[18.30 hours]] The term biogas in recent years in the 20th century has become quite general, it has become not only common among the technical professional public, but it is also a synonym of something environmentally favourable in the majority lay public, which we could take as support that even the public today perceives it as saying biogas, it stinks, but nevertheless recognizes the environmental impact. The waste from the fermentation process, which is actually going on in biogas, we call fermentate, or we use the word digestate somewhere, and it's a liquid that further serves as fertilizer when drying, and an extremely suitable fertilizer, to our field when we say that we're actually missing natural fertilizers, so here we have the source of what's on our field, especially today, when we're going to have a problem with the mineral fertilizers chemical. A suitable combination and modification of the input biomass by controlling operating conditions using different cultures of bacteria can be produced by fermentation process really very high energy quality fertilizer. Biogas biomass processing is a clear choice for all larger producers of biodegradable waste, and biogas stations are already a long-term normal part of farms throughout the EU. This ecological way of using waste for the production of a noble form of energy for the production of further usable waste meets the demands of modern trends in the field of energy, so the use of biogas stations should blossom and hopefully the Ministry of Agriculture will stand up to this. I believe that biogas currently has very high potential, of all biofuels it is actually cheap and it is a neutral energy source in CO2 production. Of course, it has its advantages, it has its disadvantages. Sometimes it's a little bit of harassment with that smell in those densely populated locations. He can actually use a lot of waste on the other hand. Biogas production doesn't produce any more waste, because we're going to put the product, the digit, back in those fields. Perhaps we could view the increased density of transport in the inhabited sites, which is the necessity of transporting the biomass. However, each biogas station leads to a reduction in the volume of greenhouse gases. Today there are modern technologies that, of course, reduce the odor exposure and thus actually affect the environment, population and employees positively. Smells don't mask, but they don't neutralize to medically safe compounds. The application of neutralising agents may be carried out by aerosol mixtures, by dry vaporization of sludge applications and liquid reeking streams by volatile neutralising gels. Technological solutions are for all types of biogas stations, from classical in agriculture to industrial and municipal waste water treatment, decontamination of various lagoons, composting, waste management to industrial disposal of waste from the industrial and food industry. And I would just like to point out here that if this law does not become effective, it will not be certified so that current biogas station operators can continue to operate with subsidy support. This is very, very important to the operators, please. And what would happen? Basically about 760 entities would not receive grant support. These entities would once again be at a disadvantage from foreign competition, we would certainly have dropped out of biogas and heat production, on which almost all agricultural cooperatives are going. And it could probably lead to the deepening of energy poverty that is coming to us as a result of the energy-economic crisis. Of course, we all know that the Czech Republic has found itself in an economic crisis that is unprecedented in the last 70 years, unfortunately. This energy crisis has shifted to the economy, agriculture, food industry, industry. The living standards of our inhabitants are gradually beginning to return to the very years that I have mentioned here. I am sorry to say that in a hundred days of its operation, the Czech Government has succeeded in almost impossible for us to destroy Czech citizens. The Minister has not yet sat on his chairs, and has already destroyed Czech agriculture and food industry, destroying Czech tradesmen, industry and transport, and against other countries in the EU we have record inflation, which can reach up to 17 percent according to the latest forecasts of the World Bank. And essentially thanks to the purple blindness, the economic crisis of unprecedented scale has started and this has probably not been achieved by any Czech government in recent years. The last time I spoke, I pointed to a study that, as in today's day, the Čech were the last afraid in the 30 years of the previous period. Well, that's enough for this government for a hundred days. And a number of citizens are asking me if we can still save ourselves. And I would like to quote you, please, economic and energy experts, because I certainly don't feel like this expert. And they say yes, the Czech Republic can be saved, but it must be a forceful step. It must be a great, high quality of energy management, the introduction of sectoral and other taxes, the introduction of regulation of electricity prices, gas prices, and that is what I want to talk about, and heat, food self-sufficiency measures and measures to reduce PHM prices. And I ask, is this government doing this? And the answer is, not yet. And I ask, why not? And I must say, none of us opposition MPs know that yet. I don't know, maybe even members of this government don't know. Maybe they're worried and hiding behind a war crisis. Of course, seducing everything to Putin, I don't think it's gonna work much longer, because now neither Putin nor the unworthy Babiš touch the electorate's wallet, but only Prime Minister Fiala and his five-fingered blind man. Or is he a purple mess? I don't know. The government of the Czech Republic, as a single state, refuses to eliminate the causes of the crisis and only takes social measures and, as a right-wing government, which I do not understand, effectively eliminates the middle class under the pretext of maintaining the state budget deficit. The Minister of Finance will probably prove to us that he will save everything at any cost, so he will vacuum our accounts through increased prices and higher excise taxes, drain our middle-class wallets, low-income group Mr. Labor and Social Affairs will hand out beggars, and by the end of the year we will learn only one thing: the budget will fail anyway, the middle class will supplement our low-income, it will grow to monstrous proportions, many companies will no longer be here. The Minister of Agriculture will look into an empty green plate and the rest of us will probably go graze instead of our Czech magpies, I mean beef cattle. And why does the Czech Republic have the highest electricity prices in the world when we produce it at home at the lowest cost? Why are gas prices already rising to the highest level in Europe? And why does the Czech Republic have the third highest inflation in Europe? And why will 95 percent of EU allowances be paid by the Czech Republic, Poland and Bulgaria in 2030? How much is paid for ČEZ and heat plant allowances per year, and why are the allowances payments reflected day by day in the heat for our customers? And why doesn't the government of the Czech Republic want to abolish the link to the Leipzig Stock Exchange when the EU is clearly distorting gas and electricity prices on the stock exchanges? And why are gas prices twice as high for customers in the Czech Republic as they are in Slovakia? And why do politicians of the Czech Republic as the only ones in Europe not defend national interests? Why is our government banning disinformation sites? But I think she's spreading misinformation herself. Because, for example, we can handle the energy crisis and we are ready for it, so the economists and energy experts also ask: yes, and how? And how do we get the liquefied gas to the Czech Republic? Are we going to buy gas together in the EU? There's only one thing I have to say. I do not think the European Union will help us. 'Cause I'm asking them how they're gonna help us. Just like they helped us with a covid style make your own, help yourself? [[18.40 hours]] Unfortunately, renowned experts say that the Czech Republic urgently needs a medium- or long-term contract for the purchase of gas for 7 crowns per cubicle, as other states have. And what does our government say? I can't deal with that. And the experts, what do they say? That the solution is not at all difficult, that it is necessary to regulate the price of electricity produced in the Czech Republic as far as possible for all categories of consumers. The export of electricity must be limited to the level of surpluses outside the winter season. But the Czech Government has a completely different opinion. It bothers her that ČEZ will not have the means to guarantee the export of electricity, which is an absolutely incredible approach for our citizens, which is crucially damaging to all our customers in this tiny country. However, the government claims that it cannot regulate electricity prices for customers in the Czech Republic because it has only 70 percent ownership in ČEZ. And there's another why. Why is the Slovak government, which only accounts for 30% of the Slovak power plants, why did it do it? It used the method of taxation of excessive profits, in this case the production of electricity from nuclear sources. And CEZ is significantly more profitable than Slovak power plants. Probably a lot of things. I'd like someone not to finally look at my whys, but also to deal with the expert whys. If you really were the representatives of our government talking to these people. And I'll be the first to applaud you if you make a change and there won't be another why. Because now the only conclusion for me is that you failed, you don't want to solve the problem, and I don't know why. The result is clear that the price of electricity in Slovakia fixed by 2024 is EUR 62 per MW and the lowest price I have downloaded from the data is EUR 160 per MW. I think these two numbers are alarming, they're horrible. I want to know when the electricity bill comes in for the grandmothers, the low-income people, what they're gonna do. I also got the bills. I have to admit, they were tall for me, too, but what are these people gonna do? I don't want it, please, I don't want to think about it. That's why I'm begging you to take a step. Just to illustrate a few data from a professional study Earth gas - trends in the market and prospects. This study is more or less a statement of a known, full of statistics, but an average intelligent person, so if you read it, you could make the same conclusion for yourself, and I did. If more than 70 percent of the world's natural gas reserves are concentrated in two regions, the Caspian basin and the related Persian Gulf and Siberia, I ask: What do we want to add when we talk about cutting off Russian gas? We go to the U.S., when experts say there's no technology, aren't there boats? We just don't have the technology for subsequent liquefaction, gasification. Only for you, the highest mining is in the United States of America, which makes 914 billion ccs. Unfortunately, the second is the Commonwealth of Independent States of Russia, which make 638.5 billion ccs. The rest of the world benefits less than 200 billion in these locations. What is mined in the rest of the world doesn't even cover the consumption of those countries where the mining takes place. And I'm not a big economist. Let us say that no Czech Republic can do without Russian gas. I'm afraid that under the influence of these expert studies, we should all say that the world can't go without this supplier, and we should deal with what to do next. I'm not a friend of any war, no aggression, I don't like it. I'm a person who likes to connect the others, and I think I can take my hat off from colleagues who can do something, they're experts and they're from different resorts. But today we are declaring sanctions in connection with Russia's attack on Ukraine, interrupting economic relations. I think that, like everything else, this time will pass. There will come a time when we will be looking for ways to establish these broken economic-business relationships. And yet we're not going to lie here that no one will ever cooperate with Russia again. I see how individual countries break it. That's why I'm saying, let's not be the only ones who want to be the best, and they're gonna shut it down. Our little country just can't do it. Let me make one final point. It's the first person who gets the sense to win this whole thing. The one who learns from history that we have had here several times - we have had wars, we have had coups, we have an embargo - and it will be the one who realizes the absurdity of today's statements, and it will be the one who supports his country and thus his citizens. I'd really like it to be all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Madame. Before the next speech, I have two factual points, Mr Kettner, and Mrs Maříková, please prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had some questions from my colleague. Of course, we have an energy conservation law here. Energy cannot be produced or destroyed, we can only transform it. We're talking about biogas here. I thought with the current energy crisis, Green Deal would become a passé. Unfortunately, I found out that some of them are so thick-headed that they want to continue to do so. I know there's a trained global climate expert, Miss Gréta, who's kind of pushing us not to grow cows, because - I'm sorry about the expression - she farts too much and we're all gonna cook here. So I'm wondering where we're gonna get the stuff to make the biogas. Second thing. This isn't just Green Deal. Of course, I also watch the pages of the Agrarian Chamber, where it simply doesn't pay them economically at all, and they make a perfectly regular announcement that they just stop growing, that it won't pay them off. So I'm wondering where we're gonna get that barn manure to make biogas. Then, of course, it was said that the equipment would be directly at the cowhouses. This, of course, is logical in terms of logistical problems. But they're gonna die. So what kind of cowhouses are we gonna build these facilities next to if the cows aren't? I don't know what we're gonna make of them. If there's a new assembly room, some kind of device, I don't know what for. So these are the things that occurred to me when I listened to my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. There are a number of other factual points. Next is Mrs Maříková, subsequently Mr Koten, then Mrs Balaštíková, then some others. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, through Mr President, you have mentioned a number of studies here. The last one was about energy sources. I think you should familiarize the Chamber of Deputies with this study, because I have the impression that this government, on the contrary, is acting as if we were completely free of those resources as if we were self-sufficient. So I think - I don't know if the two minutes will be enough for you, maybe you should rejoin, but I think it would be worth it for Members to realize the situation we are in and that they threaten the energy self-sufficiency of citizens, industry and other entities, and we simply can't do without it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Koten is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also had quite a lot of questions about the performance of my colleague Balaštíková, because... As I see it, this government is taking care of some big geopolitics here, it would like to make a policy for the United States or some other big state, but it doesn't actually realize that it is taking Czech citizens hostage in this energy crisis. So what are we gonna do if we're gonna do without the gas? I'm afraid the behaviour of a sufficient number of cows or pigs isn't going to solve it. Of course, most of the time... I was at one launch of a biogas plant. There are quite a lot of problems with this shit having to have some parameters to make it work. If something else is added to it, like from the chicken factory, then there are some sulfur products and so on, and then the generators stop because the candles leave. And more and more problems. So I don't think that would be solvable. That the government is currently not competent to address these energy problems is what we see every day. I would also like to ask the honourable Member, in some way, to add her entry to the matter here, for which I will be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mrs Balaštíková is. After that, Mr. Vodáčka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u56	Hello again. I'll start from the end. You are right, Mr Koten, through Mr President. Every biogas plant is set for something. There's no throwing a fifth over nine. You're right about that. Of course, I'm pointing that out. And that's what the Department of Agriculture should know. If the pork states go down, the beef stocks go down, what will they put in the biogas, how will the Ministry deal with it? As far as Mrs Maříková is concerned, through Mr President, I am happy to send you the studies. Of course, it's public stuff. I've withdrawn it from public affairs, please. As I have informed, everyone can inform. I certainly didn't say that I support something that's going on in Ukraine. No way. I'm just calling for common sense. And a colleague who asked me first, yes, you're right. I said the biogas stations are with the big agricultural cooperatives. But it is more a question for the Minister of Agriculture, because he is in charge of agricultural policy and he should answer us where it will be taken and if he realizes that his decision to change the common agricultural policy has an impact on other activities that are not only being heard in the agricultural sector, so that we can talk about it, that these things are not as clear as they seem. I realize all this because I'm an intern. I'm being asked by those colleagues at the Department of Agriculture who work there. I can't answer them, because if the Minister doesn't want to meet them and he doesn't want to answer those questions, it's all about him. So let's ask him when he's here, and let's call for a meeting to really be... so that the Department of Agriculture, which feeds us all, says yes, I'm aware as the Minister of Agriculture of all the consequences that I'm going to make with my decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Another one registered with a factual remark is Mr Vomáčka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u58	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we are having a technical discussion here, and I am, because it has drawn my ears completely, so through the President on my previous speaker: Scottish really does not grow, cattle behaves. Cereals are grown. So if we're having such a technical discussion, at least follow the terminology a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Faltýnek. Another, with a de facto effect, is signed in by Mrs Maříková, then by Mr Kettner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna be very brief, just like my colleague Vomáčka. I've worked in agriculture all my life. It ripped my ears off and, through the President, please, a colleague - plants are grown, animals are bred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Another registered comment is Mrs Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to see Mrs Balaštíková through you, if you can send these studies to us by e-mail, including the members of the government, so they can be familiar with it. And my colleague Radek Koten. Well, I'm really impressed that there are some parameters for shit in biogas. So if you can get us familiar with the parameters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. Another point of fact is submitted by Mr Kettner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize as warmly as I can. A similar mistake occurs not more than once every ten years. In my defense, I think I'm a little bit dyslexic. I confess that the difference between breeding and growing has been with me since my primary school when I started to have science class, and it's always dragging me around. I'll try to do something about it and work on it. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. The next one is signed up for the debate by Mrs Balaštíková, Pardon. [[The person in question is coming from the diaper that she's already spoken.]] Mrs Pastuchová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I hear here next to me that the law isn't being dealt with. I think we've been talking to the point here. I'm not an energy expert, believe me, but I still think my contribution belongs here. So let me talk a little bit like a paramedic here, and what the effects of energy amplification on rescue and mountain services mean. I see that the number of participants is increasing in the hall, so I hope you won't restrict our speech reduction as usual, so I'm really glad I got the time and I don't have ten minutes. First of all, I'd like to say that I'm very sorry that we're still going over and over again over and over again, that we have to point out that the government is doing nothing against him, that it doesn't help people, or... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Mr. Colleague, don't interrupt me, okay? If there's something you want to tell me, I'll tell you when I'm done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u67	I would ask everyone to remain calm in the room and the lady of the house to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u68	You don't have to be here if you don't care. But I beg you to shout at me here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u69	I ask everyone to speak through. [[Mrs Pastuch: Through you, Mr President.]] At the same time, anyone who wants to join the debate may make a point of fact. Madam, you may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u70	I'd like to thank the government, which is also meeting here, I've even seen the Prime Minister here for the first time today, and she's awake. But unfortunately, she didn't wake up, so all I have to do is criticize, ask questions, and draw attention to what is likely to happen soon. We are all here with this proposal, which we are discussing today, trying to help the government and trying to address the situation. Because if we don't deal with it, we won't advise you, it could have disastrous consequences. I want to talk about the components of the integrated rescue system that I still belong to. I'd kind of compare it to a health-care story. When I get a call to a cardiac arrest patient, I know his chances of survival and another quality life depend directly on how quickly he gets help. With every second wasted, the chance for another quality life drops. That's why, logically, I'm trying to help him out here as best as possible and as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the patient with cardiac arrest is now the Czech Republic. And the government, instead of going to help as quickly as possible, sits and waits, or when I put it back on those paramedics, they deal with other patients whose condition isn't life-threatening. [[19.00 hours]] We are already aware that increasing energy prices is a problem, we see this at a price increase in everyday life. Economists warn that about 20, some experts talk about 30% of households without help will not be able to cope that this will hit the middle class very significantly, people's standard of living will decrease dramatically. I would like to point out that this may not be just a standard of living in quotation marks, because the increase in energy will have an impact on the segments that we expect to operate completely automatically, on services that we do not normally use every day, but on which our lives depend at some moments. And now, let me briefly mention, and I will be talking here about medical rescue services, which are not state-owned, are regional, and therefore the State is not so much concerned with their financing. But he should be. There are 14 medical rescue services throughout the Republic that have a total of 319 exit bases. Every day for 24 hours, they work around double the exit groups, each of them has a car and the car is full of electronics, and now I don't mean electronics common in normal cars, I'm talking about devices that have to be fully functional and fully charged because they save people's lives. Paramedics can't do their job without them. This means that these devices must be regularly recharged at the bases. Each ambulance has its own dispatch, which is in operation 24 hours a day. Those are dozens of computers, screens, monitors that have to be permanently operational. Each month, we have nearly 100,000 trips across the Republic that need help. [[to those]] According to the information I've learned and have at my disposal, the year-on-year increase in energy prices in medical rescue services is a third, I'm talking about 2020, 2021. About a third of the year-on-year increase in ambulances is expected in 2022. The problem with rescue services is that they do not manage their own energy policy, they are subject to the decisions of each region and its energy policy. I am from a relatively small Liberec region, our ambulance has 14 exit bases and 32 exit groups. On most bases is in the position of a small buyer, only at the airport, because Liberec has an air ambulance, is its own transformer station. As far as I know, the price of small-scale collection has risen by about 15 percent in the last year alone, the price has risen three times on the transformer. I suppose it will be the same for other rescue services all over the country. There's a special contract at the transformer, with ambulances waiting for those small customers with basically every invoice as prices go up, but they really can't limit their consumption significantly. They can't because they would endanger all of us's lives. Of course, fuel prices are rising, fuel and energy prices are reflected in the prices of medicines and medical supplies. The paramedics don't need it for themselves, they need it for all of us. And the state, or health insurance companies, won't pay them any more for treated patients. After all, what if the payments for state insurance companies and insurance companies are reduced from reserves? But I'll save that up to number two. The operation of the Mountain Service is very closely related to the work of ambulances. These two components of the integrated rescue system work very closely together, and none of us can imagine otherwise. The mountain service has 58 stations throughout the Republic in its own buildings and 21 services in rented buildings. At the same time, 31 smugglers have their own radio networks. In sum, this means, among other things, 11 gas sampling points, 61 electricity demand points, energy used for heating, for normal operation, ICT infrastructure operations, all of these are items on which, in order to save life and health, no one really can save us all. The price of electricity and gas is fixed by the end of 2022, so far they are relatively cool. But while those costs are rising by a third year-on-year in ambulances, the mountain service is counting on an estimated increase of 100 percent, at least that comes from a budget approved by the Board of Directors. And for the next year, he even expects a 200 percent increase in the non-investment grant application because he will conclude new contracts with the supplier. In addition, the Mountain Service will, of course, also have to deal with price increases for other things, such as materials and services, also following the increase in electricity and gas prices, there is an increase of 10 to 15 percent. I also have this information because I am on the Mountain Services Supervisory Board. Dear government, doesn't that frighten you? That's just the money that all - even our - lives depend on. So what do I have to say? And I have already pointed out this in relation to rising fuel prices, so now in relation to rising energy prices. Do we even realize the risk to all of us, to anyone who is in need and needs the help of professionals? Can we understand the devastating impact of rising prices on the functioning of the IRS, or organisations that take care of the safety, life and health of citizens and which cannot raise the prices of their services, even if their costs increase significantly? Once again, I would like to know whether the government has any idea of how much energy costs the Police of the Czech Republic, firefighters, mountain service, medical rescue services, organizations that take care of the safety, lives and health of all of us, and how much more expensive this will be for the future if the government does not address the situation. Because the IZS' components really do not save energy by less light or drowning, as some coalition officials suggest to households. In the case of police, firefighters or mountain services, the cost will be paid by the state, in the case of medical rescue services or some hospitals will have to compensate the regions, in the case of city police it will be cities, in the case of care services of the region and the city, I could continue this way. I draw attention to the fact that the impact of energy amplification, if you don't do something about it, and at least we're offering the solution in part, is really going to be, as Mr Okamura would say, insane. And it won't be an impact in an area we can just give up. It will have an impact on the functioning of organizations that care for the safety, health and lives of all of us. Thank you so much for letting me speak for more than ten minutes, and I really believe that the coalition will not shorten our speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u71	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening, and we will continue to discuss this point, but first I will read my apologies. On 3. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, apologizes for today's meeting from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský also apologizes today from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. And today he apologizes until 23 o'clock, Minister of Culture Martin Baxa. Mrs Věra Adámková and Mrs Romana Fischerová are also enrolled as another duly signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear Ministers, dear colleagues, allow me a few words, where I am not quite clear how to answer my colleagues who asked me to include this point, and I must say that I sympathise with my colleague Adamec, because that is the bad luck, if this is not probably the point of an extraordinary meeting, I am almost certain that many of my colleagues will not notice this and will not have any questions about me when to ask. Perhaps it would have been better to have it in a proper meeting and to shorten the time limits to committees where we could ask through colleagues, but it just did, so I'll ask. I have to say that with very close listening and the introduction of the law, where, of course, the support of resources and so on is clear, I have the impression that we probably have a great opportunity, because of course these supported resources cannot replace our entire energy needs, we all know that this is nothing new, but we could take advantage of this and cope significantly with the treatment of obesity in our country, because in the UK, after the average heating temperature has decreased instead of in fireplaces, there has been a significant decrease. But it doesn't belong here, it's more for getting your attention. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] What we need to realize, and I will, of course, take it up with health care and facilities covered by health regulations and standards, and so I have also been asked by my colleagues. Please nicely, we have calculated in this bill - I don't know, I ask, because there are some opinions that a school or a medical facility could help with some biogas - I didn't find anywhere, what performance would be needed for a medical facility or school, if necessary? I don't think that's even meant to be there. But I think that my colleagues would be very interested in it, if it could be technically delivered afterwards, that is exactly what I said that we would ask through colleagues in the committees. The situation is different. We have one thing to realize, namely that energy is not enough in general. And to quote here experts on--
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u73	I'm sorry, Madam. Colleagues and colleagues, I know we've been negotiating for a long time. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you to keep your voice down with respect for the lady of the house so that she can hear what she's saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u74	Thank you, Mr President. We need to realize that the world is really starting to divide. And that's all for the environment and the possibilities that we can provide for our people. And what we know for sure is that we have so far been part of an energy system that has been stable. We know this very well, considering how we helped out, for example, the German structure. So that's why my colleagues' questions about how they could help themselves and not depend on the supply from the network. I think it would be necessary to work it out next time. As far as the price of heat is concerned, you know that the increase in heat over the past 13 years is not just this year, please nicely, it is really big. Price growth can be double-digit. And although we seem to have large gasifications, we must point out that almost 32 (%) of households, according to official data, do not have access to these sources. And that's a lot. Natural gas prices may be rising to up to five times. And we're getting back to what happened in the UK, where the coal mine opened up again. And that's exactly what we don't want, of course. However, as you can see, it is addressed by the truly advanced states of the world and we cannot close our eyes before. I would just like to point out that what is a really big foreign currency in the Czech Republic or was, is its stable transmission network. About a year ago, in 2021, it really happened that for more than one hour the system of south-eastern Europe was separated from the rest of the European system and it was a significant performance imbalance. I'm not going to mention what caused this, because it doesn't really belong here anymore. But what I'm saying is, we have to make an important effort to have a stabilized network. So I'm kind of missing an explanation here about how we could use biogas more closely, like we support them, no, that's all right. And I would really like to point out again that after 30 years in the United Kingdom, they have allowed a deep coal mine to be rebuilt, because unfortunately, they do not have enough energy, no matter what they have done. And as far as biofuels are as an alternative fossil source, I would of course also like to have a little more clear breeding here, which could ensure this or grow crops that could ensure this. And we don't have that. As far as first-generation biofuels are concerned, we either have the esterification of vegetable and algae oils produced by biodiesel, or the anaerobic decomposition of organic matter - biogas, or the fermentation of sugar - bioethanol, which is completely out of the question in practice. In the second generation, we already have a non-food biomass, whether it's a wing, a sorghum, a lucky man. And again, I don't see any assumptions here that would lead to increased cultivation of these crops. Otherwise, of course, biological waste is typically from agriculture, but also forestry, or what might be interesting for many of our households, and this is the household, the food industry further. There are many activities that say that a small biogas can be found in every home in the countryside. Hard in town, of course. So I didn't find exactly whether it was possible or not. But otherwise we really have to say that although 90 percent of the population of the Czech Republic should have access to natural gas, we currently do not know how it will be with its price and whether it will be possible for them at all. But 32 percent of households are not gassed at all. This means that at present we will certainly not create any new pipelines in a large way and most importantly we do not know exactly what happens to everything in the world, how we fill them. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And even in small villages and small towns, there are facilities where we have to comply with sanitary measures, and this concerns especially the temperature in the rooms. I would like to draw your attention to the thermal well-being, which is stipulated by the decree, of course, and it concerns our children. Everyone or not all of them, but we remember when the coal holidays were, and that's because... [[A silence for a big noise. The O.R. hasn't calmed down too much.]] Thank you. Neither in schools nor in health establishments was it possible to achieve a minimum temperature decree. And there is a great deal of concern that, in this not quite clear situation in the energy market, we will continue to succeed. [[Failed]] It is important to remember that for education and education facilities, where there must be daily rooms, classrooms and so on, there must be clearly a floor surface temperature above 19 degrees - try to do this in some school facilities and you will see that it is very difficult - otherwise, of course, the children would have to go home. And the next thing we have to do here is the summer season, when the temperature must not rise above 26 degrees. And my question is: how can we help these schools, the facilities, with biogas here, so that they can possibly secure some kind of air conditioning? And I didn't find that there either. Surely it would then be for discussion on committees. So that's one thing. And as for other things that we can say, if we are not able to ensure enough heat comfort, which, I warn again, is a decree, it is a legal standard, no one is making that up, we will, of course, significantly reduce the quality of care provided to our people. [[19.20 hours]] Otherwise, I am very pleased that a number of biogases are usually created by the enthusiasm of many owners of various, mostly agricultural, equipment, some I have been looking at, it is a very technically interesting matter where they have a little bit of a problem with the supply of energy to the network. But I think that's all we should be dealing with with with this debate. Which, unfortunately, wasn't the time, because it was explained to me that we wouldn't make it. I think it's a shame that this law was attached to this meeting because it doesn't really belong there. I think he needs to be taken care of, which you've explained to me is that there's no time. So I completely disagree with this, or I am not the same, because we could talk about this in a very difficult way in the energy situation in which we find ourselves, many things, but unfortunately, there was no time for that. I would like to say that this way is also dealt with by an energy expert through international relations, or by the Institute of International Relations, because everyone knows that there is a problem, and I think we are dealing with it in a little bit, in a hurry and not discussed. It is a real shame that it did not come to its discussion in the committees, because I think that colleagues who present would be able, on the spot, to prove many questions that lead to doubts as to whether it is any benefit to our education, to health care, where we would welcome this in a significant way, perhaps even in villages to ensure a thermal well-being in some houses, and unfortunately, we are not getting there. Otherwise, I must say that the issue of gas supply to medical facilities should this happen will be the reason why this facility will eventually close or limit its operation. But so is school, which is a shame. So I'm sorry that the important law just didn't get a place for it, and that's how it got to a meeting that it really shouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. Mr. David Šimek is reporting with the first. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I've just had five hours of intense listening to all the speeches that have fallen. I would like to begin by saying that we are discussing today the five-hour amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources. Whoever has not studied this law clearly states that the aim of the proposal is to complement producers, importers and biomass fuel suppliers between the obliged entities to document sustainability criteria and to allow them to demonstrate compliance with them with an honest declaration and to extend the transitional period for proving compliance with the criteria by the end of 2022. In the meantime, we have learned here about the energy crisis in Europe and its situation in individual states by my colleague Kubíček. The quality of building materials by Klára Dostálová. A detailed lecture on biofuels and digestate and the destruction of Czech citizens by my colleague Balaštíková. About 58 mountain service stations and Trafostanic rescue services from my colleague Pastuchová. And I would like to ask you all, because I see that there are six more applicants: please remember what we are voting on today, and I really ask the President to keep an eye on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u77	Mr Milan Brázdil has another point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr colleague, through Mr President, you are right, I did not study this. But let me, and I have the opportunity, in my actual response to Jana Pastuchová, who came up with the idea that the ambulances simply have to function as hospitals and so on. I have a solution for the Minister of Health or for the Government: If the rescue service had gotten together and there was only one, not 14, it would have saved a lot by actually being able to negotiate and make things cheaper. Thank you for listening to me on this point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. Next, with the factual remark of Mrs Berenika Peštová. [[Let's hear it and let's hear it from the right.]] Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u80	I thank our coalition for returning to its benches. I do not know whether the Member, through the President, was sitting here all the time, or whether he was writing it down on his TV, as probably all the others who had returned and were not here all the time. We've been sitting here all this time trying - yes, I don't know, now we're gonna yell at each other, Mr. Ambassador, through Mr. President? [[Disagree from the right.]] I was explaining it here. If you were here, I'd explain. If you open the law, it is quite logical that everyone will try to express their views on the law in some way. Yes, you're right to change things around here. But once the law is open, we all have the opportunity to comment. That's it. I am not talking about saying anything about a law that is not open, and through this law we are trying to break into another law. It's a sticker. We don't do that here. We've been talking about the law the whole time. And if you read it, the POZE law is so wide. And everything that has been said here is essentially related to this law. So they didn't move. They haven't moved on. Maybe they've moved away from what was meant to change in the law. But they didn't move away from the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u81	Before I give the floor with priority rights to the President, I will read one note to the Excellent. Today, from 18.15 to 18.50 for family reasons, Mrs Alena Schillerová apologized. [[The Member shall declare that he is already present.]] Mr. Výborný's priority right now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, through Mr President to my previous speaker: I feel obliged here as chairman of the MP's club to stand up for my colleague David Šimek. It would be good if you're sitting here at all to watch who's here or not. A colleague of Šimek here from around 15 o'clock really listened very carefully to all the contributions. And for those who have not understood his contribution, I ask if the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, I ask the petitioner here, through Mr President, whether he is really talking about ambulances or not about ambulances. I think we all know it's useless. And if anyone is sitting here on the bench or your contributions, which are not grossly related to the item under discussion, listen to it in their office, please leave it to every single member of parliament. I think this applies both to the opposition and to the coalition. And allow me to conclude on behalf of the five parliamentary clubs and the Presidents of these parliamentary clubs of the government coalition - that is, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirati - on the basis of § 59 para. Mr President, please immediately vote on the procedural proposal. Since it is clear that the opposition has agreed to discuss this meeting with a highly obstructive approach, we are proposing that we reduce speaking time to this point, namely the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, to ten minutes. Knowing that paragraph 2 refers to the fact that each Member may speak not more than twice. That is, for everyone to understand, as well as the Member and others: twice ten minutes for each individual Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal and I will put it to a vote without debate. I hear a request for your check-out, I'll check you all out. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. And when the numbers settle, I'll give you my word, Madam President. At this point, I will ask the performers to act only with counterproposals against the motion. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I'm giving the counterproposal exactly in accordance with your instructions, and I suggest, because it turns out that the subject is really comprehensive, that there's something to be said about it, that we need to discuss it, so I'm giving the counterproposal so that the performers can perform twice half an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. I've registered your proposal. I don't see any other suggestions. In that case, we will follow the way the proposals have been made. First of all, I will vote on the counter-proposal of President Schillerová. In the event of failure, the President's proposal to the Excellent. So first of all, we will vote that the debate on this point should be limited to twice 30 minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 4, 161 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 70, against 33. This proposal has not been agreed with. We will therefore vote on the original proposal, which was twice ten minutes about the speech, as President Výborný has read it. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 5, 161 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 91, against 70. This proposal has been approved. And now we will continue to proceed in the debate under this approved proposal. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] Mrs Romana Fischerová will be next. And even before her performance, I will ask you, colleagues, because I see a number of discussing groups in the hall, if you have something to deal with, so that you move into the foyer, so that it is well understood what the lady is saying. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u86	Good evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources is quite reasonable from my point of view and I am ready to support it. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop. Very poor hearing.]] Now I'd like to explain why. The Energy Supported Sources Act has undergone a major amendment in 2021, including in terms of operating aid conditions for the use of biomass energy. [[There's an echo from the O.R. Shh.]] These conditions also include a new obligation to demonstrate compliance with sustainability criteria and greenhouse gas emission savings, which we, in a nutshell, call sustainability criteria. These criteria are also to be supported by producers of biomethane, electricity and heat producers and production biomass. This is insufficient, however, because only biomass but also biomass fuel produced is not incinerated in electricity and heat production plants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u87	Colleagues in the right side of the hall and colleagues, please go to the lobby to discuss. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. The producers of electricity, heat and biomass using biomass fuels are entitled, on the basis of European law, for a transitional period, to demonstrate sustainability criteria by means of an honest declaration. However, this is not an option for producers, importers and vendors of input raw materials intended for the biomass fuel committee. I believe that this is inappropriate legislation because it introduces unjustified differences. The proposed proposal thus extends the possibility of demonstrating sustainability criteria through an honest declaration to producers, importers and vendors of input raw materials intended for the production of fuels and biomass. I believe that this is mostly a sensible proposal, which I have nothing against and I am happy to support. What surprises me, however, is the fact that the government from the entire energy crisis associated with huge problems for our citizens and for the Czech industry only addresses this partial amendment. This amendment is reasonable from my point of view, but it addresses only partial issues, namely demonstrating sustainability criteria with an honest statement. However, I believe that the government should rather actively address the current huge problems caused by the enormous rise in prices. I have an example of the overwhelming impact of rising prices on Czech entrepreneurs. My friend owns a hand glassworks in the Zlín Region. It is one of the oldest and longest working glassworks in the Czech Republic. It started its operation in 1794, even during world wars it did not stop its production. In our country and in the world, this glassworks has a very prestigious position. Each piece of the product from this glassworks is the artwork of our glassmakers masters. And now we see that increasing gas prices, which the current government is not fighting enough, can endanger its entire existence. This glassworks was hit by a dramatic increase in gas prices, which is essential for their production. Compared to last year, this is an incredible 567 percent increase. This means a monthly increase in the costs of operating the company by up to CZK 1.6 million for this glassworks, with total operating costs of around CZK 5.5 million. Such an increase in prices is therefore really essential to this company. If they were to compensate for an increase in costs by increasing the prices of their products, they would clearly have to increase by up to 30%, which is unrealistic if they wanted to remain competitive. Last year they bought 1 megawatt hour for 16 euros, today it is 1 megawatt hour for 95 euros. It's 22 million crowns more expensive than last year. In January 2021 they paid CZK 500,000 for energy, in 2022 it was already CZK 3,100,000. It's 2,600,000 more. With such price increases they will soon lose their customers and the owner will have to close the glassworks and release all 100 employees. Their income is attributed to whole families who would remain without income in such a situation. When the director of this glassworks approached the Ministry of Industry with these problems, the answer was to take a loan. The problems of these citizens and entrepreneurs should be addressed by the government. Instead of including a completely partial and not very significant amendment, the government should have included effective measures against the rise in gas prices at an emergency meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u89	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Adamec is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, just a small point. This is an MP's proposal, not a government proposal, for the MP, now I forgot my name, I'm sorry, Fischerová. I'm sorry, through you. So let's just say it a little bit exactly, since we're already commenting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Now is Mrs Berenika Peštová, when I was asked if she could use her two ten minutes in one time block. So I'm asking if there's any objection to my progress? In case she doesn't, I'll give the lady of the house twice ten minutes. I do not see the objection, please, Madame, you have twice ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for your kindness. Mr President, Dear Government, Dear Sponsors, Dear Colleagues, I have prepared a request for advanced biofuels or biomass resulting from Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, and what the requirements of European Union legislation are. Thus, according to the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2018/2001 on promoting the use of energy from renewable sources adopted at the end of 2018, each Member State shall impose an obligation on fuel suppliers to ensure a certain minimum share of RES. These objectives are set out in Article 25 of that Directive and are set at the same level and binding for all Member States. The Czech Republic has transposed the stated objectives into its national legislation, and this is the RED II already mentioned. The European Union's legislation laid down both the overall objective of energy from RES in transport as well as a number of sub-targets, respectively sub-targets and other requirements. The total energy target from the RES for final energy consumption in the transport sector in 2030 was set at at least 14 per cent. [[19.40 hours]] Furthermore, a target has been set, or a contribution for advanced biofuels and biogas produced from raw materials listed in Annex IX, Part A, to final energy consumption in the transport sector in 2022 of 0,2 %, in 2025 at least 1 % and in 2030 at least 3,5 %. Furthermore, a target has been set, or restrictions, for biofuels originating from food and feed crops. These are so-called first generation biofuels. The share of biofuels, biofuels and biomass fuels consumed in transport, when produced from food and feed crops, must be at a maximum of 1 percentage point higher than the share of these fuels in the final energy consumption in the road and rail transport sector in the Member State concerned in 2020, with the share of these fuels in the final energy consumption in those sectors in that Member State representing a maximum of 7 %. At the same time, the said EU legislation also uses certain multipliers to set targets, which aim to benefit certain energy from RES in transport when counting to the above objectives. These multipliers are referred to in Article 22 of that Directive, where it is stated that the proportion of biofuels and biogas for transport produced from the raw materials listed in Annex IX may be counted as double their energy content and the share of electricity from renewable sources shall be counted as four times its energy content when supplied to road vehicles and may be counted as 1,5 times its energy content when supplied by rail. And what is the principle of the operation of the module ensuring compliance with the requirements of the 2018/2001 Directive in the Czech Republic? For the proper functioning of the module for meeting the requirements and targets of the OZ energy in the transport sector, three areas will need to be appropriately set up: the area of energy security, the area of information and the area of financial, where all these areas will be interlinked with the control mechanisms of the state authorities. In order to meet both the overall objective of energy from the OZ in the transport sector as well as the objective for advanced biofuels and biogas in the transport sector in the Czech Republic, with regard to the structure of the road motor vehicle fleet, which is 8 242 952 in the average age of 18.11 years, the most economical and efficient solution is to use advanced biomass supplied in domestic transport in the form of either bioCNG or bioLNG. SNG - LNG vehicles will be a real alternative in the next ten years to classic fossil fuel wagons whose quantity and consumption will enable the gas market to grow. However, the introduction of advanced biomass in transport is only at the beginning and merely an obligation imposed on gas suppliers for transport, which would be associated with significantly higher costs of the fuel thus supplied, would lead to a loss of interest in the use of gas-powered vehicles and therefore stagnation, or reduction, in the extreme case even the disappearance of the market over the next decade. The de facto situation that occurred on the domestic market in the field of clean and high-percent fuels, when they ceased to be of interest after the reduction of tax aid between road motor vehicle users and the impossibility of their accounting for the fulfilment of the obligations of automotive petrol and diesel suppliers, and instead of the gradual increase in the sale of gaseous fuels in transport and the corresponding increase in gas vehicles would first result in stagnation and then a decrease. The cost of production of advanced biomass is significantly higher than the prices of natural gas as well as the prices of petrol and diesel. It is therefore necessary to set an appropriate combination of responsibilities and support for the use of biomethane in transport. And what are the principles of setting up aids? First of all, it's to support the production of biomethane. To support the production of biomethane, manufacturers will be able to choose between operating aid in the form of a green bonus for biomethane and aid in the form of the issue of guarantees of origin for biomethane. Operating aid in the form of green bonuses for biomass, this is the first form of support for the production of biomethane, should ensure long-term confidence of producers, producers of biomethane, return on investments invested in the production of biomethane and at the same time the existence of the necessary demand. Its primary objective will be to improve environmental protection by increasing renewable energy production in the form of advanced biomethane for transport purposes. The proposed measure aims to create conditions for achieving the European Union target in 2030 of 14 per cent of energy consumption from renewable sources in the transport sector and, within this objective, the sub-target, Article 25 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 1 Directive for advanced biometane. The measure will also contribute to the achievement of the overall national renewable energy target and, in the future, the 2050 targets and the decarbonisation of domestic gas. The amount of the green bonus for biomass will be determined in such a way that the sum of discounted cash flows over the lifetime of production is zero taking into account the expected revenues from the sale of biomass at the market price of natural gas. The aid will only compensate for the costs between the production price of biomethane and the market price of natural gas. The methodology for determining the amount of the green bonus will also reflect the evolution of the market price of the guarantee of origin of the certificate. The aid will be granted until the production is written down. At the same time, the amount of aid will be adjusted year-on-year according to the guidelines on State aid to the European Union in the field of environment and energy on the basis of monitoring of the costs of the purchase of fuel and the price of natural gas and their changes. These setting-up of operating aid for biometane will ensure that only an adequate amount of aid is granted. Operating aid with a green biometane bonus will be paid to the biometan producers by OTE.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u93	Your other ten minutes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. Market operator. Operating support for biometane, a green bonus, aims to activate both the unexploited potential of biometane in completely new biometane production plants and conversion, conversion, current less efficient electricity generation using biogas to produce biometane. The possibility to draw a green bonus on biometane will also be given by the manufacturer of biometane with attached liquefaction equipment equipped with certified measuring system if it proves that the biolang concerned has been delivered to the filling station in the Czech Republic. The aid in the form of a guarantee of origin for biomass, that is the second form of support for the production of biomethane, is a legislation of the European Union, a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from OZ, defined as an electronic document demonstrating the origin of the energy supplied to the customer. OTE will issue a guarantee of origin on the basis of the measured values of the quantity of biomethane produced and the relevant producer of biomethane will be able to apply it on the domestic or foreign market at market price. [[19.50 hours]] If the manufacturer chooses the form of aid with a green biomethane bonus, then the biomethane manufacturer will not be entitled to issue a guarantee of origin for biomethane. The guarantees of origin for the quantity of biomethane supported by operating aid for biomass will belong to the State. The State will be able to transfer these guarantees of origin to the suppliers of energy fuels in transport after payment of the relevant price of guarantees of origin through the originator's guarantee scheme. If the manufacturer does not choose to support operating aid for biometane, then this producer will be entitled to issue a guarantee of origin for biometane, which may subsequently be applied on the market in the Czech Republic or some foreign market. The registration of all gas filling stations in the Czech Republic will be ensured in the OEME system as sampling points connected to the gas system of the Czech Republic or as special sampling points outside this system. By law, government regulation, each year the expected amount of supported biomethane will be determined, i.e. the annual total amount of aid for biomass. Overall, production of around 100 to 200 million ccs of biometane for transport use is expected to be supported annually. And second of all, it's a boost to the consumption of biomethane. An obligation will be set to ensure the relevant part of the energy from the OZ in the transport sector for natural gas suppliers. It is considered that, in the case of a natural gas supplier, there should be an increase of 40 per cent of the content of the biogas in CNG and LNG in 2030. And natural gas suppliers shall request the transfer of the relevant guarantees of origin to bio-metal for transport and shall pay the relevant price in advance by means of the Energy Regulatory Authority for such transfer. The volume of the required guarantees of origin for biomass will be determined proportionally on the basis of the market share of the supplier concerned on the CNG and LNG market in that year and the total planned amount of aid for biomass delivered in that year, the so-called allocation key. After payment of the price for the transfer of the guarantee of origin to biomass by the supplier of natural gas, OPTI transfers the guarantees of origin to the biomethane to its account and assigns them according to the allocation key on the basis of consumption to individual demand points of the CNG and LNG filling station. The quantity, number of guarantees of origin issued for biomass shall be proportionate to the obligation imposed on suppliers of natural gas to ensure the relevant part of the energy from the RES in the transport sector and shall correspond to the amount of operating aid paid for biomass. And thirdly, we're here to fund support for biometane. So the amount to be paid each year for the payment of operating aid to biomass, the green biometane bonus, as I said, will be financed by payment from fuel suppliers to transport according to the fossil component's share of the total energy content of fuels placed on the market by them in a given calendar year. This will take the form of a fee, the amount of which will be determined by the Energy Regulatory Authority. However, since the introduction of biomass in transport is only at the beginning in the Czech Republic, this method of financing of operating aid for biomass is expected only from 1 January 2025. By this time, the costs of selecting and redistributing the fossil component will be expected to exceed the total resources needed to receive operating aid, and this need will therefore be financed from other financial resources, in particular from the auctions of emission allowances and state budget subsidies. And fourthly, we have quality assurance and mass balance. To ensure quality and mass balance, it will be done through so-called certification, which will ensure the quality of the biomethane product and ensure compliance with the principles of the mass balance system throughout the valuable (?) system. the string. This certification will consist of the following two parts. Firstly, it is a guarantee of origin, a certificate for biomethane, which will demonstrate the suitability of the use of biomethane in transport in accordance with the requirements laid down in Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy for renewable sources. Secondly, sustainability criteria for biomass biofuels and greenhouse gas emissions savings. The setting of the central information system to the STE will ensure registration and regular monitoring to fulfil the obligations of all entities participating in the system of achieving the objectives of the OZ in transport, and the reporting obligation of the entities concerned will be imposed. The basis will be the central information electronic system, the administrator of which and the operator will be STE, which will allow the recording of the total energy volume from the OZ transport and its reporting. The system will provide information and documents to biofuels producers, biomass producers, producers of electricity from OZ, suppliers of liquid fuels, suppliers of natural gas, suppliers of electricity, biomass producers, distributors of biofuels and biofuels producers. And the system will draw information and documents from the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Finance, Directorate-General of Customs and State Energy Inspection. The system will record both static information for entities that are information on equipment and information on the applied aid scheme, as well as dynamic transaction information, which are sustainability criteria and emission savings and balance weight information. In addition, the record of all the guarantees of origin issued, sold, transferred to biometane, as well as the evidence of sustainability criteria enabling the issue, insertion and registration of data on compliance with sustainability criteria and greenhouse gas emissions generated during the past life cycle of biofuels and biomethane. Of course, I have a speech prepared even further. Since I'm limited in time, I see 40 seconds here, I'm not going to the next chapter. In any case, I support this proposal and I will definitely vote in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u95	I thank you for keeping time. Mr Josef Kott will now appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Speaker. I will borrow your words and agree that this is stupidly simple, but on the other hand, I am convinced that this needs to be approved quickly, because, as has been said here, when we fail, we will get into huge problems not only by the manufacturer but also by the customers. And since I am trying to address issues relating to agriculture and the environment, I will allow myself to focus my contribution on the portfolio of the farm, or the farmhouse in relation to biogas, biogas stations as such. So the biogas station was never just a source of electricity and heat. It is a facility that deals economically effectively with the disposal of by-products and waste from farmers who built it or those who can bring waste biomass here. Likewise, energy crops or food production, which is not of adequate quality, are found in the input mix of raw materials, and at this time biogas stations have become somewhere, in fact, saving animals. [[20.00 hours]] Biogas energy has become part of a very linked agricultural activity. The farmer grows something to feed the animals and then the biogas station. Kejdu, manure, damaged crop, which can also be sent to biogas, and it actually produces energy on the basis of those input materials that is partly sold and partly used in its own operation or in the immediate vicinity, whether the said electricity or waste heat, which is usually used both for the rearing of individual livestock or can subsequently be used for the drying of crops as such. The produced digitestate is used as fertilizer for land on which food, animal feed are grown again and again actually raw materials for biogas station. This closed circle spins, and thanks to synergies such as the whole, it works, even if some article fails completely. And it has to be said that within the portfolio of individual farms it has been shown that biogas stations at a time when prices for animals or agricultural commodities fell, so biogas stations were those parts of the segment that essentially held the farm and held the cash flow of the holding. At the very beginning of the biogas plant, livestock farms were rescued due to the reduction of the smell and pressure of the inhabitants of the municipalities, where the individual municipalities concerned were actually affected by transportation from the manure farm, and at the moment the biogas station was the only possible solution so that it would not have to be abolished and could still work in the future. And the manure distribution plan actually turned into a digestate delivery plan that didn't burden the environment to such a high degree. In fact, the cattle are either in return to goose or manure, which has already been said here by my previous speakers, and this is a great carrier of trace elements and biology for a successful fermentation process. Digestat, in turn, helps solve the rising costs of mineral fertilisers and their availability at all, and at this time, I think whoever has the digital system will certainly know that in its fields, because due to the price of the fertilizer there will definitely be a sharp reduction in fertilization to individual agricultural crops. But now the synergy carousel with the midpoint of biogas faces even greater challenges, which is the drastic price of fuel and energy. [[growth]] Even at energy prices that we were used to until recently, one such specific pig breeding paid 400 and 450 thousand crowns a month for electricity. The effect of the switch to spot prices is its invoicing five times and the cost of electricity accounts for almost half of the sales for slaughter animals, and here it has to be said that it is converted into current prices. If it were at prices that were three or four months ago, that percentage would have been far, far higher. The price of the power component of electricity is climbing to the fixed purchase price from biogas, which means that the green bonus will decrease significantly. This is great news for the State, because it will save significantly on the cost of supporting renewable resources, but for the final consumer, this means that the price of electricity from biogas stations will not be as advantageous as it was before, and even though it will still be about half as much as the price that the agricultural entity has received from the network. Of course, what the biogas station doesn't sell, but it puts into its own connected operation, and here is another shortening in sales. They say when one leg out of four is limping, there's a way to stand it, but unfortunately, when more legs are limping, it's a big problem. In the long term, the costs of operation of biogas stations are increasing, both on the service side and on the input substrate side. Adding to this a restless agricultural situation, synergies are fine, but they don't tighten everything. The consequences of war, as they are linked, that there is probably no sector that they will not at least touch economically. Of course, fuel prices will be reflected in the costs of cultivation, sowing, harvesting, fertilization. Each journey will then be more expensive. Here, the owners of the few biogas stations, which are already cleaning biogas on biomass and can supply their own bio CNG to tractors, can congratulate themselves. The economy, as I said earlier, will definitely improve the substrates that are created in biogas stations. A certified methodology will be published, which verified under the operating conditions of the biogas station the assumption that it is possible to replace part of the original material - corn silage - in anaerobic digestion by bobsled plants. By replacing part of the input substrates with alfalfa, there was a significant increase in total nitrogen content in digestate from 0,4 % to 0,79%, which was almost twice as much compared to the original state. With the rising price of mineral fertilisers, fuels, as well as the increasing pressure to protect the soil, the use of bobsleigh plants for individual businesses and the entire company appears to be very beneficial. While it is necessary to exercise caution when changing the input substrates, as there is a risk of a collapse of the biological process, a methodology has been developed to propose a transition to and monitoring the process's substrates from beaver plants. For maize, the costs are calculated only for the actual harvest using the cutter and for the collection of maize into a storage bowl, which was calculated at CZK 3,000 per year. The total costs during the year are affected by the number of harvests during the growing season, when three harvests are calculated for clover and the total costs for that harvest of CZK 8,400 per year, whereas for alfalfa it is calculated with four harvests, where it is CZK 11,200 per year. Last but not least, the crop length of the clover is set for the purpose of calculating for two years, for the Lucerne set it is expected to be four years. The average annual costs per hectare are therefore as follows: 33 000 for maize, 11 150 for clover and 15 575 CZK for alfalfa. From this I think it is clear that biogas stations are certainly important in the portfolio of individual farms. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u97	Thank you for your time and Mrs Monika Oborná is now registered. And I'll say hello first and have a nice evening. I'm taking over the meeting, and before I give the lady my word, I'll read the apology. Mr Martin Hájek apologizes between 7:30 and 24:00 for reasons of the family. Please, madam, you have the floor, and Mrs Eva Fialová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good evening, dear colleagues. Let me, too, comment on this amendment. Membership amendment to the Energy Supported Sources Act will extend the circle of entities to document compliance with sustainability criteria while extending the transitional period for which obliged entities can demonstrate compliance with sustainability criteria by means of an honest declaration. Although it is a relatively minor legislative technical adjustment of the conditions for providing operational support for the use of biomass energy, this is also an important topic of European and our own energy policy. [[20.10 hours]] The countries of the European Union planned to achieve carbon neutrality by mid-century, based on the so-called Green Deal, or Green Agreement. By 2030, the carbon footprint is expected to decrease by 55 percent compared to 1990. To this end, the European Commission's work programme for 2021, the Fit for 55, has been notified. This package covers a wide range of policy areas, including energy efficiency of renewable energy sources, land use, energy taxation and emissions trading. The package's instruments are only in the design phase so far. Recommendations should be discussed in the coming months, which the Czech Government should use especially during the Czech Presidency. We must take into account the fact that there has been a fundamental change in circumstances since the draft package. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the sanctions against Russia applied by the European Union are completely changing the bases on which the current European strategy for energy transformation has been based. The ambitious environmental plans will have to give way to energy security interests at least in the medium term. The production of electricity and heat from fuels is thus becoming even more important from biomass today than it was at a time when last year we approved the extensive amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, which entered the sustainability criteria for this production chain into the law. Field of proof of compliance with criteria - [[Mr Adamec's rapporteur, a comment on the speaker off the microphone.]] Now I've been thrown out of context by the translator here. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Let's do it again. The ambitious environmental plans will have to give way to energy security interests at least in the medium term. The production of electricity and heat from fuels is thus becoming even more important from biomass today than it was at a time when last year we approved the extensive amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, which entered the sustainability criteria for this production chain into the law. The area of proof of compliance with the sustainability and savings criteria for greenhouse gas emissions is regulated in particular by Directive 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. Their purpose is to ensure that the use of biofuels does not distort biodiversity. Let me therefore draw attention to the document drawn up by a 15-member team of experts in this context. The expert councils of European environmental academies, which are dedicated to the serious incomparability between science and practical energy policy derived from forest biomass. The article builds on the extensive work of experts who have been dealing with this issue since 2015. According to the EU Renewable Energy Directive 2019, biomass collected from forests was clearly classified as renewable energy. Since then, it has been used in a number of Member States to increase the share of energy from renewable sources. The original idea, however, was that the main source would be unused residues from forests and wood processing companies. The increase in the use of biomass has led to the cutting down of forests, energy-intensive production and transport at considerable distances and so on. Carbon neutrality was thus in fact only reported on paper. In addition, as also stated in the document, the climatic effects of the currently widespread replacement of coal with forest biomass, especially when imported, may increase the risk of exceeding the Paris Agreement's objectives. There are two reasons. When the forest is cut down and used for bioenergy, all the carbon in biomass enters the atmosphere at once. As CO2 emissions are higher per unit of electricity produced, the net effect is that the conversion from coal to biomass will first result in an increase in emissions. Moreover, the CO2 emitted is absorbed only after the forest has grown again, so there is a time lag between carbon release and its reabsorpion from the atmosphere, the so-called carbon return time. Based on this and other warning studies, Directive 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources has therefore established that biofuels, biofuels and biomass fuels should always be produced in a sustainable manner. I quote: "Biofuels, biofuels and biomass fuels used to meet the Union target set out in this Directive and those covered by the support schemes should therefore comply with the sustainability and savings criteria for greenhouse gas emissions'. However, that Directive also notes that electricity from renewable sources should be introduced at the lowest possible cost for consumers and taxpayers. Naturally, there can be a contradiction between the interest in the available energy price and how sustainability criteria will be set. On the one hand, we are undoubtedly interested in obtaining biofuels, biofuels and biomass fuels in a way that does not harm the environment, on the other hand, the more stringent the sustainability criteria are set, the higher the price of these energy sources. We can use the barn manure, as Minister Jurečka has already recommended, but I think we all know that will not be enough. Nor does it make sense to lie to ourselves that we can subsidize these energies, no matter what the cost. Sustainability versus price is simply a dilemma that we will have to deal with in the coming months and years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u99	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Eva Fialová is now signed in, Mr Ondřej Babka will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I will follow up on the previous speaker in my own way. To my contribution, I was inspired by other colleagues who were also going to touch energy prices and what was actually affecting energy prices and why we are actually dealing with biomass. When the whole emission allowance system was created, it was set up that by 2030 the emission allowance would be EUR 32 per tonne of CO2 and would start the investment needed for alternative sources, the renewal of issuers themselves and so on. But what happened to us? I am only here based on the fact that the reasons why emission allowances prices are going up are generally related to the situation on the energy market. Until last year, it was in line with long-term plans. However, the aim of the creation of an allowance system was to gradually achieve an emission allowance price to make it worthwhile to switch to alternative energy sources. 15 days. 1. The Energy Regulatory Authority published the average price of emission allowances for last year. About twice as high as year-on-year. As a result, emission allowances prices affect the price increase of goods and services in the Czech Republic. According to the Energy Regulatory Authority, the average emission allowance price in 2021 was CZK 1,355 per tonne of CO2. Year on year this is the highest increase in recent years. In 2020, the average price was CZK 652 per tonne. The rising prices of allowances then affect the price increase and other goods and services, as the main economists, such as UniCredit Bank Pavel Sobíšek, who said - quote: Every increase in the emission allowance of EUR 10, i.e. CZK 244 per tonne, contributes 1.4 percentage point to the price level growth in the Czech Republic. If prices for emission allowances of our number increase by 35 euros in 2021, by about 854 CZK, the price level could rise by 4.5 percentage points. [[20.20 hours]] And let's look at the average price of ERO emission allowances since 2015, when the lowest was CZK 142 per tonne in 2016. Last year, it rose to almost ten times that. The average price in 2015 was 217 CZK, 2016 142 CZK, 2018 144 CZK, 2019 399 CZK, 2020 607 CZK and 2021 1 355 CZK. People don't do anything to increase energy. We have several options, expert advice. But according to Mr Sobíšek, the economist Jakub Seidler also has speculation. Emission allowances may inflate not only companies that need them for their activity and activity, but also a number of other market players who started speculating on the further increase in emission allowances prices in relation to the European Union's climate ambitions, which led to their jumping price increase last year. Therefore, I am worried about whether investment will be possible at all. I doubt the words that the Modernization Fund will provide us with anything, as stated by the Minister of the Environment. So I'm asking, and it's not a petitioner's question, but rather a call to the government, what will the government take on Green Deal? Isn't it time for the European Union's green dictatorship and, in the light of information, to stand up and look for quick and effective solutions? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Madame. Member Ondřej Babka is now registered. Member Jaroslav Faltýnek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to commend the measures by which the amendment maintains support for biomass energy. I, like our whole ANO movement, support this amendment of the law. However, I point out that this is just the tip of the iceberg. Therefore, I would like to talk here about the problems related to this. I don't think I'm gonna surprise anyone right now, but he's not gonna give it to me, we have to say it out loud and over again. If we look at the level of inflation in the euro area in March, which stood at 7,5 percent and 7.8% in the European Union, this is a record since the introduction of the euro 20 years ago. In particular, energy prices are increasing. The war in Ukraine and the sanctions against Russia drove fuel and gas prices to record levels. The inflation rate thus remains well above the target of the Czech National Bank, but also of the European Central Bank, which set it at 2%. The Czech Republic has the third largest value of inflation from European Union countries, i.e. 11.9 percent. Only Estonia, with a harmonised index of consumer prices of 14,8% and Lithuania, had a similar index of 15,6 percent. And just for comparison: Malta 4,5 %, France 5.1 %, Italy 6.8 %, Greece 8 %, Hungary 8,6 %, Slovakia 9.6%, Poland 10.2 %. Go ahead, the Czech Republic with the already mentioned 11.9 %. Consumer prices according to the CZSO increased by 12.7 percent year on year in March of this year, which was 1.6 percentage point more than in February. The acceleration of annual price growth occurred mainly in fuel and oil prices, at an extreme of 50,6 percent. In February 31 percent. This price increase significantly reduces the mobility of Czech citizens, and it is one of the lowest in OECD countries. For a large part of the population, the journey to work becomes a luxury farm that they cannot afford. Overall, the transport price in the Czech Republic had an increase of 21,6 percent. The increase in fuel prices, along with the cancellation of discounts on fares, is affecting significantly the most vulnerable in our society. However, this is probably not a fundamental argument for the current government. However, the increase in fuel prices is not only reflected in the price of transport. We will all feel higher fuel prices at basic food prices, at clothing prices, at shoe prices. We often hear arguments from the five-calice that we have historically had higher fuel prices relative to the average wage. Yes, it can be true. But in the past, the extreme increase in fuel prices was not accompanied by an increase in energy prices, gas, raw materials, lack of chips, an increase in food prices. This brings me to an increase in the price of electricity by 29,7% in February, natural gas by 37,7%, products and services for routine maintenance and repair of flats by 16 % and heat and hot water by 14 %, rent prices by 4 %, aqueous by 5 %, net 6,4 %, solid fuels by 20 %. In the food and soft drinks section, flour prices were 30,3% year on year, semi-fat preserved milk by 20,1%, butter by 31,9 % and potatoes by 21,4%. Clothing prices increased by 19.9 percent and shoes by 15.4 percent. Imputed rents, which are property housing costs, increased by 16.3%, mainly due to the prices of building materials and the prices of new dwellings throughout the Czech Republic. The prices of goods thus increased by 14,3% and the prices of services by 10,4% in total. I understand these numbers aren't listening very well, but I have one more number to put out here. As a result of such extremely high inflation of the Czech household, it is surprisingly, but record-breakingly poor. This year, according to estimates by the Czech Statistical Office and the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, real wages fell in 2002, or real wages decline is predicted to be up to 7 percent, and in the second quarter of this year even a decline in real wages affects a height of 10 percent. It will very likely be the deepest decline in living standards in the modern history of the Czech Republic. Probably still little for the five-wheelers. However, this does not end with negative information on the current situation not only in the energy market. According to Czech statistics, Czech consumers are worried about price growth, deterioration of the overall economic situation and their own financial situation. The value of the economic sentiment index for Czech consumers is the lowest in almost 10 years at 81.3 percent and is still falling dynamically. The problem according to current research of the Czech Statistical Office is high prices throughout the national economy. But the respondents have a negative assessment of almost all the aspects pursued. In the Czech Republic, a significant proportion of respondents believe that their current financial situation is worse than in previous years. Unfortunately, I have to say that Petr Fiala's cabinet does very little. Very little for the people, and the help that this government has put forward to this point is obviously not working. I, of course, acknowledge that, after our repeated pressure, the five-calice finally presented concrete aid to entrepreneurs, whether it was a road tax or a reduction in excise duty on fuel. I am saying this because I do not want to be critical at all costs, and for this - albeit a small - step it is certainly appropriate to commend the government in part. But it's not enough. Nor is it enough for this support to be created by the adoption of this Act on Supported Energy Resources. [[20.30 hours]] In the long run, I cannot shake the impression that, on the one hand, the help that the government promises comes, the unnecessarily late and used types of help that our movement has already offered you, you deliberately ignore. So what we've been recommending all along has happened, and senselessly long, people, entrepreneurs, and businesses are in doubt. And according to yesterday's information from the Ministry of Finance to April, we have a deficit of less CZK 100 billion, but state budget revenues rose by 8.5% at the end of April, i.e. by CZK 37.5 billion. This result was mostly contributed by revenue from tax revenues, including premiums, which increased by 12.6%, which means CZK 47.3 billion. These are items... these main items are mainly value added taxes and excise duties. inkaso value added tax, increase by 23.2 %, i.e. plus CZK 20.4 billion. This was positively influenced by economic recovery and price growth. In annual growth, excise tax collection plus 18.9 percent, which amounts to CZK 7.5 billion. This was also where economic growth began to be projected, and at the same time the absence of measures introduced to limit the spread of coronavirus. The collection of excise duty on tobacco products increased year on year by 27,4% and thus by CZK 3.7 billion. Furthermore, excise duties on mineral oils increased by 13,6 percent, i.e. CZK 2.7 billion, from beer plus 28 percent, i.e. CZK 0.2 billion, and from alcohol plus 4.1 percent, i.e. plus CZK 0.1 billion. Our proposals presented by the YES movement to the government require only the return of these parts or, respectively, these funds back to the Czech citizens. The evolution of the annual increase in consumer prices in the Czech Republic in the second half of 2021 and in 2022 was completely outside the expectations of market and non-market operators. Consequences of unexpected inflation - [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you. I'll sign in one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. Okay. Noted. And now Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek will speak in the debate and Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u104	Thank you, Madam First Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Good evening, colleagues. We are discussing an amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources. I am saying this through Madam President because I have heard a great criticism here that we are not speaking to the point. And it's a good thing the Minister of Agriculture Nekula is here when I have the chance to perform. I'd like to ask if we could talk for 20 minutes straight. [[He's turning to the chair.]] Unless no one objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u105	Yes, if no one has objections, you can talk for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u106	Thank you, thank you very much. In my contribution, I would like to say a few words about how agriculture can be successfully integrated into bioenergy. Lower dependence on fossil fuels, higher energy security, price stabilization, the development of renewable resources and their flexibility - these topics are resonating today, and in the context of events everyone in Europe at least understands their importance. And what was the reaction of European politicians so far? Unfortunately, so far only further analyses, more bureaucracy and reasons why we should delay effective solutions. But time calls for concrete actions, not just other action plans. The current situation in Europe shows that the period of our energy abundance was to a large extent due to the debt of our planet, which we may all agree on, at the expense of security and long-term and with the threat to the stability of living standards. Any measures to remedy will already require more resources and efforts, as the risks associated with inflation, material supply instability, price increases and, above all, the uncertainty of developments in the east are increasing. But European politicians have a much greater incentive to really change things. This is confirmed, among other things, by the conclusion of the recent Extraordinary European Council in Versailles, when the European Union will reduce Russian gas consumption by two thirds by the end of 2022 and will end the consumption of all fossil fuels from Russia by 2027. Agricultural biogas stations can also gain a significant position in this context, but not only agricultural and municipal stations. If my time is up, I'm sure I'll get to it shortly. From the very beginning, a strong argument in the form of energy security, or self-sufficiency and decentralization, has been used for the introduction of renewable resources into our energy. A strong socio-economic contribution for regions was also stressed, especially in the case of biomass use. In time, these arguments have become so perplexed that they have slowly disappeared from rhetoric. Today it comes back to the front and forth, yet we continue to degenerate them - unfortunately - with political games and various crooked principles of circularity. How foolish the situation is today when, within the scope of the approval procedure of the biogas station, its installation was pushed away far from the village by the citizens and the argument of cheap heat from local production to the citizens of the municipality did not help. However, biogas stations were built because farmers had a crisis in their vivid memory from 2007 to 2009 when agricultural commodity prices fell below cost prices and the promised stable income from electricity sales was clearly a better option for many agricultural companies. The pressure on the use of agricultural production outside the agricultural market was stepped up by aids to put land in rest by introducing tax holidays, extra charges for the use of targeted biomass, investment aids and other instruments. In a short period, we were able to build more than 400 biogas stations with a power of over 300 megawatts in the Czech Republic, even though some benefits had already been abolished during the years of the most massive construction, tax holidays in 2010, after 2011 was built mainly without investment subsidies. A few years have passed and low use of heat from these sources has been pointed out, conditions for connection have been changed from the need to install the control system, the adequacy of the aid has been checked, taxes have been introduced on gas burned to the flure and then the gas tax used for heat production. Further tightening of exhaust emissions, change and significant expansion of reporting, re-change in connection conditions, introduction of biomass sustainability conditions and further steps by the government to halt support for biogas energy crops. The same purchase price of biogas electricity for 12 years without any valorisation is then the icing on the cake. What is the potential of biogas stations? Taking into account the current operating conditions and adding complications with obtaining building permits for new resources, we are not very operational and we may not be able to repeat under normal conditions the intensity of construction we demonstrated in 2011 and 2012. In addition to the preparation of new resources, it is therefore necessary to look at the existing ones and at the very beginning also to say what is a priority for us. Biogas stations are variable devices and can form flexible energy centres. Today we are using a balanced production of electricity and heat, which is only a fraction of what they can offer us and what we will be demanding from them soon, I hope. [[20.40 hours]] In biogas stations there is a regulatory potential of performance comparable to the pumping power plant Long slope, i.e. about 700 MW or higher. Power regulation is able to offer both on a daily basis and within the season, and it is already a service that is provided mainly by coal power plants so far. In addition to electricity, biogas can also produce biomass in the quality of natural gas, or from concentrated CO2 with the help of biological processes and with the addition of hydrogen to produce synthetic methane, so-called syngas. The current biogas production in biogas stations in the Czech Republic represents about 6.5 TWh, which is about 7 percent of the existing natural gas consumption. And that's not so little. For the production of such quantities of biogas is used around 10 to 11 million tons of biomass, meaning manure, manure, by-products, silage, haystack, biowaste, and cultivated biomass for the field of biogas takes about 130 to 150,000 hectares of arable land, which is some 4 percent, so no drama. Biowaste production in the Czech Republic is about 1.5 million tonnes. If we are looking for ways to replace natural gas, we will also find them in the precise use of all biowaste, by-products, but especially in cultivated biomass and, of course, in savings. However, it is not only energy savings but all sources across sectors. The emission trace of electricity produced in the biogas plant from the final sausage product, which has not been used on the market, is several times higher than from coal. This paper is therefore an advanced fuel with zero emission footprint, but we actually had to put CO2 in the product equivalent in the form of raw materials, energy, investment and work. Saving food in waste will also release an interesting amount of agricultural land. Unfortunately, according to various analyses, so far a third of all food in the world will eventually end up being waste. Improving food management and reducing the amount of food waste will provide us with a reduction of the necessary area to ensure production raw materials for food production. So far, in the Czech Republic, there is no struggle for arable land from the point of view of the drag between energy and food crops. Today the Czech Republic is, after all, we all know, it resonates especially with the crisis in Ukraine, an exporter of about 3 million tons of grain, cereals, grains, which is in biogas production from approximately 7 to 8 TWh of energy, as well as crop production from 300,000 hectares. If we used the same area to produce crops for biogas production, we would get energy from 13 to 14 TWh. Together with what we already have today, we would have achieved, I say theoretically, not grab me for a word, about 20 percent, not 7 as is today, but 20 percent of the current consumption of natural gas, which would have meant compensation for half of the Russian gas supply. The question is how we can motivate the field for new construction and what guarantees we will bring in the form of legislation and, above all, its stability, which, as already mentioned in the introduction, is unfortunately not our strong point. Biogas stations can produce more biomass over the summer and help fill natural gas reservoirs, on the contrary, in winter they can produce more electricity and heat for the needs of the surrounding area, not only for heating farms, livestock stables, but also for citizens. This requires a biogas plant to be supplied both by cogeneration units and by a treatment plant to clean biogas into biomass. Both technologies can then continuously change their performance. From an economic point of view, this is an incomplete use of the invested investment, where each works only with part of its possible annual use. From an energy point of view, however, this is the best solution and maximization of flexibility. Such solutions deserve investment support from both national and, of course, European sources. In addition, increased flexibility will also bring more room for photovoltaics in the network. Today, farmers are already offering the installation of photovoltaics on large roofs with the possibility of balancing the performance by biogas station so that the required power flows into the network. Storage gas at the morning and evening peak is not as difficult as storing electricity in batteries. Unfortunately, such a solution is not on the table today, because the distribution network operator looks at such a production plant as part of installed photovoltaic and biogas power, so the sum will then cost the network calculated and the result is a reduced possibility of installing additional power or rejecting a request for photovoltaic connection. Unfortunately, our legislation is not yet ready for optimization and flexibility of operational parameters. An even greater problem arises when the operator wants to offer negative regulation and, if necessary, to remove excess electricity from the network and change it into hydrogen. It can then use technologically for the production of syngas within biological processes. Syngas doesn't know our legislation yet. And methane produced in combination with biomass carbon and hydrogen from electricity is an unstoppable obstacle so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u107	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, to interrupt. For the sake of information, my colleagues, unfortunately, there is no time on the board, but the Member and I are running out of time. So you've got ten more seconds to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. I won't need them. I have six and a half minutes. Just a few more words on independence from Russian oil. Today's goal is to reduce dependence not only on Russian gas but also on Russian oil. And as I have already mentioned here about the conclusions of Versailles' last Council, there have been clear intentions. And I don't think we want to deepen our dependence on gas and oil. The political background of biofuels is disturbing. I'm not gonna comment on that at all. I think he's behind us. However, most biocomponents are produced from our production of grain, corn, sugar beet and rape. Moreover, the European directive RED II has put the maximum amount of biofuels in the first generation, and if we manage to reduce the consumption of PHM, the total production of these biofuels of the first generation will necessarily have to fall, and this has already been discussed numerous times, and these are also produced under certified conditions of compliance with the sustainability criteria of biomass. Their contribution is therefore clearly declared and controlled. Since the beginning of 2022, the Supported Resources Act has introduced an obligation to meet the sustainability criteria for biomass as well as for all sources using solid biomass, with fuel input higher than 2 MW for biogas stations and 20 MW for heat plants. In addition, new sources must also meet greenhouse gas emission savings. It may therefore seem that we support renewables, but at the same time, unfortunately, we are putting the sticks under their feet to find out what else they can do. So what will the support of these resources look like in the coming key months and years? Let us hope that in the interests of our economy, independence and security significantly different from the current one. In conclusion, just one sentence. Yesterday I met a major farmer who runs several biogas stations, and actually, based on the debate, I prepared this contribution here, which I think is part of the debate on the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources. And the farmer, I don't want to name him, but he begged me to come out here and call on the Minister of Agriculture, or the whole government, the whole coalition, and with our help, of course, if we're interested in this complex energy situation, where we all hope to gradually replace dependence on Russian gas and Russian oil, to start focusing on this topic of support for agricultural biogas, but not only agricultural gas, because there is still potential of municipal ones, you know that Prague is starting to deal with this, Brno is starting to deal with when a large part of municipal waste would actually run through biogas, thereby producing electricity or biogas. So very briefly. I did it in my 20 minutes. And thank you all for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u109	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, President Andrej Babiš will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u110	Thank you for the floor, good evening. I don't think biofuels are behind us, my colleague. And I just forgot to say in that first speech in the current government's strategy that the government is either lying or selling our jobs. And it doesn't concern the Secretary of Defense, because the Secretary of Defense wants to have 2 percent of GDP in 2025, and of course we support it and we keep our fingers crossed, and we certainly want the military to be able to buy in a different way than usual, and then it becomes a Martyrium à la BVP. So it's just so the secretary doesn't feel offended. So one of the lies is the biofuels, it's the bio-component. And on May 5, 2015, there's a text I'm going to read to you, and it's called Biofuel in the Czech Republic and a conflict of interest. So the government's lie is that the government says we're gonna cancel the bio-fold and we're gonna make fuel cheaper. And by not having 6 percent of Czech rape, and maybe the Minister, he's not here anymore, so maybe he'll be right that the farmer decides whether to put grain or rape there. It's his decision, and it's not Babišův's rape, as it's customary to say. So the government here is directly supporting Putinův's regime. The government supports Putinův's oil, I don't know anymore, which minister said he would support the end of dependence on Russian oil, but on the other hand, he supports it. Because logically, logically, if there is no Czech rape from Czech farmers, they will, of course, grow the rape and transport it to Germany. So they're going to cash in about 200 million less. So the government is directly supporting Putinův's regime and supporting Russian oil. Well, that's logical, otherwise it can't be. So the Foundation Anti-Corruption Fund on May 5, 2015 responds to the wave of interest that has emerged in recent days in connection with the Government's draft law on the promotion of biofuels in the Czech Republic for transport purposes. The reason for our decision is the fact that the Government's bill concerns the reception of funds into the state budget. Subsequently, an unprecedented number of inaccurate and misleading comments appeared not only from political actors but also from commentators. And the Foundation against Corruption - we know that Mr Janeček is a candidate for the President of the Czech Republic. So no one doubts that the fund is independent. For this reason, the Fund publishes an analysis of Biofuel in the Czech Republic and a conflict of interest, or a short memory of some democrats, in which it offers the general public a brief and more detailed description of the nature of the case of biofuels on the ground plan of the mentioned conflict of interest, using only official data of the government authorities. The text is divided into four parts: Biofuel in a nutshell; Members and conflicts of interest or a brief summary of the conclusions; A brief history of support for biofuels for an easy reader; History of biofuels support in more detail with references to resources for an inquisitive reader. And the annex is a copy of the vote on behalf of Members regarding the support of biofuels in the Czech Republic during the years 2007 to 2012. The text of the analysis shows, among other things, that the governments of the Czech Republic have repeatedly approved support for the use of biofuels in the Czech Republic for transport purposes in the past. Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, across the political spectrum since 2007, have repeatedly supported the expansion of the use of biofuels in the Czech Republic for transport purposes, including tax advantages. This helped demand for biofuels products. The government of Petr Nečas was also counting on continued significant support for biofuels, including tax advantages after 2015. - That was the Prime Minister for ODS, as we all know. - In November 2012, the Czech National Action Plan for Energy from Renewable Sources approved the document. Some political leaders claim that no one can count on the extension of the tax advantage after July 2015 until the start of the current government, that means Sobotkův's government. - So they lied. - The text of the analysis also contains an analysis of the current government proposal to adjust the support for biofuels compared to the existing support for biofuels in the Czech Republic for transport purposes. For example, the analysis results from the intention of the current government to reduce their tax advantage for most types of biofuels in order to increase excise duty revenue to the state budget. The current scream of some political actors is merely a theater. - It's 2015. And what does that remind me of? Flights flying repeatedly and massively voted in favour of the support of biofuels, including their tax advantages. This increased the revenues of biofuels producers, including Czech producers, but please, and they did not mind, because at least they supported employment in Czech agriculture, finally, and fulfilled the commitments given by European legislation on biofuels. Now suddenly she's screaming that it's unacceptable. The director of the Foundation Fund against Corruption Petr Soukenka commented on the current situation. Let us note that the Czech Republic has committed in the past that in 2020 the share of renewable energy sources, biofuels and electricity in total fuel consumption in transport will be at least 10 per cent. This objective has been ordered - ordered - by European legislation. The Anti-Corruption Foundation is an entirely independent initiative by people who fundamentally disagree with the high level of corruption in government, and our aim is, among other things, to support and detect corruption in public administration and support for projects revealing corruption. So the material is called Biofuel in the Czech Republic and conflict of interest or the short memory of some Democrats. In the past, the Czech Republic has undertaken that the share of renewable energy sources, biofuels and electricity in 2020 and the total consumption of fuel in transport will be at least 10 per cent. This objective has been ordered by European legislation. Following the fulfilment of this commitment, support for the use of biofuels for transport purposes in the Czech Republic is currently being implemented in three ways. First, through the so-called low-percent mixture, which is generated by the incorporation of a small quantity, around 5%, the total volume of the blend of biodiesel, respectively. bioethanol, bio-oil to standard diesel fuel, respectively. to standard diesel petrol. The determining factor for these low-percent mixtures - the maximum proportion of the biocomponent in the mixture is given by legislation and/or by legislation. technical standard - is the fact that common compression-ignition and compression-ignition engines do not need any adjustment in order to function properly for the mixture. Thus, the consumer at the petrol station will not know that it is pumping this low-percent mixture into the car. The consumer also pays the State full excise duty for this mixture at the price paid per litre of the mixture at the same amount as that tax shall be paid at the price paid per litre of standard diesel fuel, respectively. per litre of standard diesel petrol without a bio-component. Thus, low-percent mixtures are not taxed on the part of the State. Secondly, through a high-percent blend of biofuels with fossil fuels, in which the volume content of the biofuels is significantly higher, at least 30% of biodiesel for the so-called mixed diesel SMN B30 for diesel engines and at least 70 per cent bioethanol for fuel with ethanol E85 for positive ignition engines. Engines using a high-percent ethanol E85 blend already need special modifications, fuel SMN B30 is able to burn most diesel-engined vehicles produced after 1997. [[21.00 hours]] The price of these mixtures is lower for consumers because the consumer does not pay the State excise duty on the volume share of the bio-component contained in the high-percent mixture. Therefore, if the current amount of excise duty for standard diesel petrol is CZK 12.84, then for the litre that the consumer pays to the State at the price of petrol, for ethanol 85 fuel containing 85 % volume of bioethanol, the State forgives the consumer's duty to pay an excise duty of CZK 10.914. Therefore, the final price for the consumer may be lower by this amount per litre of such fuel. Similarly, if the current amount of excise duty for standard diesel is CZK 10.95 per litre, then for mixed diesel SMN B30 the State forgives consumers the obligation to pay an excise duty of CZK 3,285 per litre in the fuel price of CZK 3,285 per litre, that is 30 per cent of the amount of 10.95. In this case, for this amount per litre of such fuel, the final price may therefore be lower for consumers. Note that ethanol E95 fuel, containing more than 95 percent bioethanol, belongs to high-percent mixtures. The fuel is fully exempt from excise duty of CZK 9.95 per litre and is intended for special diesel engines and is not intended for normal distribution at public service stations. Thus, high-percent mixtures benefit from tax by the State. Three. Through the so-called pure biofuels, which is mainly biodiesel, the FAME B100 from the English designation of the methyl ester of fatty acids, in the case of diesel engines, this fuel is capable of burning most of the trucks. The price of this biodiesel is currently fully exempt from excise duty of CZK 10.95 per litre and thus by this amount per litre of such fuel the final price may be lower for consumers. Thus, net biofuels are taxed on the part of the State. Following the European legislation of the previous government of the Czech Republic, past MEPs and past senators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic have gradually proposed and approved a number of obligations for fuel distributors in relation to the minimum shares of biocomponents contained in them. Who and how many times supported the use of biofuels in the Czech Republic and what obligations were mentioned in the following chapters. These obligations include, for example, the obligation for fuel distributors to report for a calendar year the statutory minimum share of biofuels for the total quantity of fuel sold, especially for the total quantity of diesel sold and especially for the total quantity of diesel sold. Thus, the distributor has the option either to have a legal minimum share of biodiesel incorporated into each litre of diesel fuel, respectively into each litre of diesel petrol by law given a minimum share of bioethanol, a low-percent mixture, or to fulfil its obligation for a calendar year to distribute, sell high-percent mixtures or clean biofuels in the case of a combination of both options, while selling each litre of low-percent mixture to the consumer of this mixture ideally collects the full amount of excise duty per litre of the mixture. By selling high-percent mixtures, the State collects a reduced amount of excise duty on each litre of such mixtures from the consumer and, in the case of the sale of pure biofuels, the State does not levy any excise duty on a litre of such fuel from the consumer. So the more high-percent mixtures or pure biofuels are sold, the more the state will lose revenue from the state budget, as consumers will pay less to the State on excise duty. The interest of the State is therefore that distributors fulfil their obligations with regard to biofuels rather through the sale of low-percent mixtures, as consumers pay the full amount of excise duty to the State. And that's how it happens. Imagine now that you are an important Czech private producer of biocomponents in the Czech Republic. Past governments and past MPs and senators have supported the demand for your products and products of your biocompetitors, but at the expense of producers of standard fossil fuels - at the expense of producers of Russian oil production, we can deliver today - because distributors have prescribed minimum shares of biofuels that they must sell along with standard fossil fuels. If you succeed in defeating competition, you have a good business, which you help to fulfil the Czech Republic's obligations by European and then Czech legislation, and also as an employer you can participate in the employment of Czech citizens primarily in agriculture, thanks to which you can pay a considerable amount of money to the state in taxes. Your business interest is also to sell your products, biofuels or biofuels as much as possible. So the ideal business case would be if all standard fossil fuels were completely replaced by clean biofuels. The commercial interest of the producer of biofuels or biofuels is therefore exactly opposite to that of the State. However, if the biofuels are not of interest to the consumer and the distributor is merely fulfilling the statutory obligation to sell for a calendar year in the total volume of fuel sold at a certain minimum percentage of that quantity of biofuels, it is fundamentally indifferent to whether the distributor does so gradually over the course of the year through the sale of low-percent mixtures, or whether at the end of the distributor sells the missing percentage in litres at the same time in the form of pure biofuels. The sum of these minimum litres of biofuels sold - biofuels - will be the same at the end of the year. And what is the interest of the final fuel consumer? For low-percent mixtures, the consumer pays the same excise duty as if the fuel did not contain a bio-fold. However, for high-percent mixtures or for pure biofuels, the price per litre of such fuel may be lower for consumers than CZK 10 over a litre of standard fuel, since the State does not require the consumer to pay this excise duty in the fuel price. In other words, billions that the State does not collect on excise duty from the sale of high-percent blends and clean biofuels will remain in the pockets of final consumers of these biofuels, that is, citizens, but not in the pockets of biofuels producers. If these preferential biofuels are used by, for example, transport companies, private transporters, then the price of tickets for these transporters may be lower than the situation in which passengers would have to pay full excise duty for standard fuel at the price of the ticket. The claim that the State directly supports biofuels producers by the billions that it does not collect as a result of the partial or total exemption of high-percent mixtures or clean biofuels from excise duty is misleading. This means that, as is apparent from the above, the State will, as a result, donate to final consumers, therefore to citizens. And now the government doesn't want it because this government doesn't want to do anything for people. - It is true, however, that the State has thus provided for an increase in demand for biofuels producers' products, thus providing for an increase in the sales of biofuels producers. This increase in sales may be a fraction of the total amount donated by the State to consumers, may be the same, but may be higher. Let us note that in November 2012, the then government of Petr Nečas approved a strategic document entitled National Action Plan of the Czech Republic for Renewable Energy, in which a number of long-term measures by the State, including the adjustment of the tax advantage for biofuels needed to achieve a binding, at least 10% of the share of renewable energy sources, biofuels and electricity in total fuel consumption in transport in 2020. Therefore, the government of Petr Nečas had to count on the support of biofuels, including tax advantages after 2015. The claim made by some political representatives that no one counted on the creation of the current government to extend the tax advantage after July 2015 cannot be true. Members and conflicts of interest or a brief summary of the conclusions. In the past, European legislation has established a minimum share of renewable energy sources, biofuels and electricity in the total consumption of fuels in transport in 2020 at a rate of 10 per cent. From 2007 until the beginning of 2014, when Andrej Babiš became Minister of Finance, the governments of the Czech Republic approved multiannual programmes, action plans or regulations at least four times and submitted government bills, increased or at least left support for the use of biofuels for transport purposes, including tax advantages. - And what governments were they? Well, those were all the governments of the existing coalition since 2007, they've always wanted it. During that period, Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic - today, therefore, want to support this Putin - have voted at least six times to approve an increase or at least leave support for the use of biofuels for transport purposes, including a tax advantage, thereby directly or indirectly supporting the demand for products from biofuels producers in the Czech Republic, including companies controlled by Agrofert. In this vote, a total of 739 votes have been voted across the political spectrum for this support for biofuels, a total of 79 times against this support, and a total of 126 abstentions have been made by Members. [[21.10 hours]] The current bill by the Government, in which Andrej Babiš is the Minister of Finance, leaves this support in at least three cases of biofuels or biofuels, reduces at least five cases by increasing excise duty and reducing tax advantages. At the same time, the Government's proposal provides for an additional obligation on low-percent mixtures of biofuels with fossil fuels in order to increase excise duties to the state budget. In addition, the Government's bill introduces measures to prevent circumvention of the obligations imposed by law on biofuels. It is estimated that the overall impact of the draft law on public finances will be positive, reduced excise duties on the state budget will be offset by employment in agriculture regarding the production of biofuels. The aid leaves the possibility of lower prices for biofuels and high-percent blends of biofuels with fossil fuels compared to standard fuel prices - up to CZK 10 per litre for final consumers, such as transport companies, private transporters, farmers, individual consumers and so on. Let us note that in November 2012, the then government of Petr Nečas approved a strategic document entitled National Action Plan of the Czech Republic for Energy from Renewable Resources, in which a number of long-term measures by the State, including the adjustment of the tax advantages of biofuels needed to achieve the European legislation on the minimum shares of renewable energy in transport in 2020. - So Petr Nečas' government was counting on the support of biofuels. And when that government supports Putinův's oil with its interference today, it's also looking for a fine from the European Union. A brief history of support for biofuels. In March 2007 the Government of the Czech Republic submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a government bill which later came out as Law No. 18/2007 Coll. with effect from 1. 9. 2007. The subject matter of the law was the obligation to ensure that, as of 1 September 2007, the minimum prescribed quantity of biofuels, the so-called low-percent mixture, was included in the fuel for transport purposes for the calendar year, with a gradual increase of up to 3,5 per cent, respectively. 4,5 per cent for petrol, respectively. diesel from 1 September 2009. This obligation could also be fulfilled by the person concerned by indicating pure biofuels - biodiesel - or a high-percent mixture with a proportion of 30 or more percent of the biodiesel. The Government Bill was approved by the Chamber of Deputies in May 2007. Miroslav Kalousek voted against the proposal, Bohuslav Sobotka abstained, Vojtěch Filip voted in favour. In February 2008, the Government of the Czech Republic approved a programme to support the further application of biofuels in transport. The document states, among other things, that the use of biofuels as a substitute for fossil fuels is desirable in both the Czech Republic and the European Union, but the calculations show that the desired expansion in the application of clean biofuels and high-percent biofuels cannot occur without sufficient financial support from the State. The most appropriate method of support is full exemption, respectively. reduction, excise duty on net biofuels and excise duty refund on high-percent biofuels mixtures. Three. A year later, in February 2009, the Government of the Czech Republic submitted to the Chamber of Deputies - and the representative of the draftsman was then Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek - a bill that amended the Law on excise duties and other related laws and which was the subject of implementing a scheme for the promotion of biofuels. The explanatory memorandum to this draft law states, inter alia: "According to the technical calculations carried out under the programme, both clean biofuels and biofuels, which are part of high-percent mixtures of biofuels with fossil fuels, must be fully taxed. The tax advantage for net and high-percent biofuels is intended, inter alia, to increase the use of these fuels on the market. Given the tax advantage of fatty acid methyl esters, conditions will be created for the growth of demand for methyl esters of fatty acids, which will be used to drive engines both in clean form and as a component of so-called mixed diesel. As a result of higher demand for the product of this sector, an increase in employment can also be expected. The impact on state budget revenues will be negative." The Chamber of Deputies approved this proposal in June 2009, including the label of the emission allowances parties. The MP - not the Minister at that time - Miroslav Kalousek voted against the proposal, in his own words because of the sticker on emission allowances, Bohuslav Sobotka voted in favour of the proposal as well as Vojtěch Filip. The approval of the Law resulted in a tax advantage by reducing excise duty on high-percent mixtures in proportion to the share of biofuels and the exemption from excise duty on clean biofuels. In November 2009, the Government of Jan Fischer submitted a draft law to the Chamber of Deputies, the subject of which was to increase the minimum share of biofuels for petrol and diesel from 4.5 percent to 6.3 percent for petrol, respectively. from 3,5 per cent to 4,5 per cent in the case of diesel since April 2010. In the justification of the proposal, the Government stated that among the main objectives of the amendment to achieve the indicative objective under Directive 2003/30/EC, to which the Czech Republic has committed itself, as well as promoting the use of biofuels and supporting the agricultural sector. [[belongs to:]] Moreover, the justification of the Government's bill explicitly states that entrepreneurs will benefit from primary biofuels producers and that the amendment does not bring effects on the state budget and the return on excise duty. The Chamber of Deputies approved a modified government proposal in May 2010, instead of a government-designed increase in shares of 4,5 %, respectively. 6.3% of Members agreed to increase their shares to only 4,1%, respectively. 6.0 %. Both Mr Miroslav Kalousek and Mr Bohuslav Sobotka and Mr Vojtěch Filip voted in favour of the proposal. Everyone. - The Polistopad cartel voted in favour. Kalousek, Sobotka, Filip. In August 2011, the Government of the Czech Republic submitted a draft law to the Chamber of Deputies, in which, among other things, fuel suppliers are obliged to gradually reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which can also be achieved by the share of biofuels in fuels or clean biofuels. In the explanatory memorandum to the Government's proposal, the risk of non-compliance with the legislative requirements of transposition of Directive No 1 shall be noted. 2008/50/EC and is warned against failure to comply with, inter alia, the granting of high penalties. - So, existing government, high sanctions await you. Fingers crossed. In February 2012 The Chamber of Deputies approved this government proposal with amendments not concerning the issue of biofuels. Miroslav Kalousek, like Vojtěch Filip, voted in favour of the proposal. - You see, Kalousek, Filip voted together for the proposal. - Sobotka's been delayed. Miroslav Kalousek, at that time again the Minister of Finance, immediately after the approval of the government proposal before the Members said: "Of course, the government is satisfied that this law has been passed through the support of biofuels. And to make it very clear," Kalousek says, "I voted in the final for this government proposal because it is a good law, and it is a necessary transposition, it is a so-called EU law. As a result, its advantages outweigh some of the concessions made by the House during the vote, so it is a step forward, not a step forward. I criticized the concessions, not the fact that the House passed the law." However, the Senate returned the approved law with amendments, but they did not concern biofuels. In May 2012, Members adopted the Act with effect from 1 September 2012. In this re-vote, Miroslav Kalousek did not vote because he was excused from attending the meeting, Bohuslav Sobotka voted in favour and Vojtěch Filip abstained. [[21.20 hours]] In September 2012, the Government of the Czech Republic approved an action plan for biomass in the Czech Republic for the period 2012 to 2020, setting out, among other things, an optimal mix of crops to secure raw materials for biofuels production, and a scenario is presented in case the State significantly supports the use of alcohol in the liquid biofuels market in the medium term. In October 2012, the Government of the Czech Republic issued a regulation on the sustainability criteria for biofuels with effect from November 2012, setting, among other things, the minimum savings for greenhouse gas emissions in the use of biofuels. In November 2012, the Government of the Czech Republic approved an update of the National Action Plan of the Czech Republic for Energy from Renewable Sources. The preamble to this Government-approved document states, among other things - and I repeat, that was the government of the existing coalition - the established National Action Plan of the Czech Republic for Renewable Energy, hereinafter the National Action Plan, proposes in 2020 to achieve 14% of the share of energy from renewable sources in gross final energy consumption and 10.8% of the share of energy from renewable sources in gross final transport consumption. At the end of this document, a number of appropriate future measures by the State for achieving a mandatory minimum of 10% of the share of renewables in transport in 2020. These include: developing a real concept of the use of biofuels in the Czech Republic as alternative motor fuels from renewable sources in transport up to 2020; rethinking further possibilities for the use of biofuels for propulsion, in particular the wider use of both clean biofuels and high-percent biofuels, mainly in agriculture, construction, mining or transport enterprises; establish by the State the conditions for the application of biofuels comparable to those for compressed natural gas for transport purposes; to create conditions by the State for faster replacement of existing fleet in the Czech Republic, in particular in terms of support for production and import of new vehicles to alternative fuels produced from biomass; develop the necessary legislation to support the implementation of the proposed measures - the new Air Protection Act, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, the legislative treatment of support for prospective production and the use of second and third generation biofuels. At the end of 2013, during the period of the official government of Jiří Rusnok, the Czech Republic supported the compromise proposal at the meeting of the European Commission for Energy, including the limitation of the use of biofuels produced from food biomass, as well as the issue of support for so-called advanced biofuels. However, this compromise proposal was not accepted overall. In August 2014, the Government of the Czech Republic approved a multiannual programme to support the continued application of sustainable biofuels in transport for the period from 2015 to 2020. The programme leaves an obligation to gradually reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fuels and the obligation to meet 10 per cent of the energy content of biofuels and renewable electricity for total energy consumption in transport by the end of 2020, in accordance with European legislation. In the programme text, for clean biofuels and for high-percent mixtures of biofuels with fossil fuels, current tax aid is either left or proposed to reduce this tax aid. The text of the programme also states the need to completely exempt modern biofuels, second and third generation biofuels from excise duty - but they do not exist, they are not, everyone talks about them, no one has ever seen them. - At the end of the programme text, the following proposed or approved and notified aids will be reviewed each year as to whether they do not show overcompensation. In February 2015, the Government of the Czech Republic submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a bill amending the Law on excise duty and other laws in order to implement a government-approved multi-annual programme. The Government's proposal is to keep the minimum shares of biofuels in low-percent mixtures - diesel and diesel, to reduce the tax advantage of clean biofuels and high-percent blends of biofuels with fossil fuels, to tighten the obligation of fuel suppliers to use biofuels in fuels and to implement monitoring of the fulfilment of their obligations during the calendar year. More specifically, the Government's bill reduces the tax advantage for fuel SMN B30 by increasing their excise duty from the present value of CZK 7.66 per litre to 8,41 - SGN B30 is a mixed diesel fuel with rape oil methyl esters, where the methyl ester share of the mixture is at least 30 per cent of the volume; reduces the tax advantage of fuel B100 by increasing the actual tax contribution from current zero crowns per litre to 1.80 crowns per litre - B100 are pure fatty acid methyl esters; abolishes the tax advantage of fatty acid ethyl esters; reduces the tax advantage of vegetable oils intended for the propulsion of engines by increasing the actual levy of tax on current zero crowns per litre per CZK 18 per litre; leaves the existing complete exemption from excise duty on biogas, in liquid or gaseous form, intended for the propulsion of engines, leaving the existing possibility of total exemption from excise duty on second generation biofuels; It leaves the existing possibility of total exemption from excise duty on fuel E95 and reduces the tax advantage on fuel E85 from the current CZK 12.84 per litre of biolith contained in E85 to CZK 11.31 per litre of biolith contained in E85. In addition, the Government's proposal provides for an obligation to lodge a security on the customs office's special account corresponding to the quantity of biofuels not delivered, which, according to the explanatory memorandum, is to make a significant contribution to the reduction in the amount of any default on fines for not putting the minimum amount of biofuels into free tax circulation imposed on fuel suppliers who have not complied with the statutory obligation. In the explanatory memorandum submitted by the Government's proposal, the overall impact of the proposed adjustments on public budgets is stated literally - page 17: The costs of the proposed adjustment are linked to a lower collection of excise duties. The overall accumulated negative impact - 2015 to 2020 - of this variant to public budgets as a non-collected excise duty should be around 9 billion according to the programme and subsequent calculations. Of which 8,2 billion should be a lower recovery of the state budget, and 820 million lower recovery of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. On the other hand, the programme implies a significant positive impact on employment and subsequent contributions to public budgets. This option is intended to create about 14,000 new jobs and during the programme bring 14.6 to 16.2 billion crowns to the budgets. Therefore, the overall cumulative impact on public budgets should be positive between 2015 and 2020 according to the programme of between 5.6 and 7.2 billion. Furthermore, the Government's draft law leaves the existing obligation for fuel suppliers per calendar year to ensure a minimum quantity of biofuels up to 4,1 per cent vol. of the total amount of motor petrol incorporated into motor petrol and 6 per cent vol. of the total quantity of diesel incorporated into diesel. However, a new fuel supplier may only fulfil the obligation of up to 1.2% vol. of the total quantity of diesel fuel incorporated into motor petrol or only 1.8 per cent vol. of the total quantity of diesel fuel incorporated into diesel fuel, including the indication of pure biofuels or a high-percent mixture of biofuels with fossil fuels for free circulation in the Czech Republic for transport purposes. Let's note that in the current regulation this limitation is up to 1.2%, respectively. up to 1,8, it is not, and therefore currently the supplier of fuels can fulfil its obligation to the parties to the minimum shares of biofuels in diesel and diesel respectively, as well as the indication of pure biofuels or a high-percent mixture of biofuels with fossil fuels into circulation, to the extent specified by the minimum shares of biofuels 4,1 % and 6 % vol. respectively. The proposed restriction on the circulation of pure biofuels and a high-percent mixture of biofuels with fossil fuels is stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Government's draft law: Based on experience, it has been identified that the excessive use of these fuels leads to the deformation of the fuel market, where a substantial part of the normal fuel, which should contain a smaller part of the bio-component, does not contain this bio-folder. Since biofuels intended for use, offered for sale or used for the propulsion of engines are exempt from excise duty, while the normal fuel containing certain quantities of the bio-component is subject to excise duty, the state of the excise duty which the fuel supplier would have to pay in the event that the obligation under paragraph 1 would have been fulfilled by means of normal fuels containing a bio-fold in volume according to the ČSN-EN standards described above. [[21.30 hours]] The proposed solution will allow a future increase in the mandatory share of biofuels in § 19 para. 1 and at the same time reduces the decline in the revenue of the state budget from the taxes not collected, which are imposed on fuel. The Government's bill also includes further tightening up in relation to possible fraud with biofuels. The proposal also expects an increase in the demand for bioliquy and net biodiesel FAME producers of these products. Among these are companies belonging to AGROFERT: Ethanol Energy, Primagra, PREOL. However, it is also noted that the same conditions will apply to bioethanol and biodiesel originating in the European Union. The proposal also states that in the Czech Republic, approximately 13 fuel manufacturers B30 and 2 fuel manufacturers produce fuel E85, with an increase in production of these entities with potential positive impacts on employment. Bohuslav Sobotka and Andrej Babiš are signed under this government bill. Well, imagine when the post-November cartel woke up in 2016 and found out that Babiš was different. That's why they came up with Lex Babiš. In April 2015, general hysteria - yes, so here it is - is about the conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš in relation to the production of biofuels and its unacceptable profit from the production of biofuels. So here we also have a history of promoting biofuels in more detail. At the very beginning of the day, Directive 2003/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 was adopted. 5. 2003 on promoting the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels for transport. This Directive established, inter alia, a breakdown of the indicative share of biofuels from the total quantity of motor fuels sold: for 2005 of 2 per cent energy content, for 2006 of 2,75 per cent energy content, for 2007 of 3,5 per cent energy content, for 2008 of 4,25 per cent energy content, for 2009 of 5 per cent energy content and for 2010 of 5,75 per cent energy content. Act No. 18/2007 Coll. with effect from 1. 9. 2007 a minimum quantity of biofuels has been introduced for persons who place petrol or diesel for free tax circulation in the Czech Republic for transport purposes, in the fuel that this person places into free tax circulation in the Czech Republic for transport purposes for a calendar year, including: (a) from 1. 9. 2007 at 2 % vol. of the total amount of diesel incorporated into diesel, (b) from 1. 1. 2008 at a level of 2 % vol. of the total amount of motor petrol incorporated into motor petrol, (c) from 1. 1. 2009 at 3,5 % vol. of the total amount of motor petrol incorporated into motor petrol, (d) from 1. 1. 2009 at 4,5 % vol. of the total amount of diesel mixed to diesel This obligation is imposed in accordance with the same Act No. It was also possible for the person concerned to meet the indication of pure biofuels - biodiesel - or high-percent mixed fuel in the form of so-called "biodiesel'. mixed diesel fuel with a content exceeding 31 per cent by volume of biodiesel, in the form of so-called Bioethanol E85 with a minimum of 70 per cent by volume of bioethanol with motor gasoline, in the form of so-called bioethanol E95 for free tax circulation in the territory of the Czech Republic for transport purposes, to the extent according to the above-mentioned shares - page 2360. On 31 January each year, the person concerned was required to report to the competent customs office of compliance with the obligation to place a minimum quantity of biofuels in free tax circulation for transport purposes for the previous calendar year. If the person concerned failed to fulfil its obligation to put in free tax circulation in the Czech Republic a minimum quantity of biofuels for transport purposes, it was this Act No. 18/2007 imposed an obligation to pay a fee from the volume of biofuels which was to enter into free tax circulation in the territory of the Czech Republic for transport purposes for the previous calendar year, which was to be the income of the state budget. Under the proposal of the Government Act, which was submitted to Members on 1. 3. 2007, was signed by then Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek and then Minister of Environment Martin Bursík. Miroslav Kalousek was then a member of the government as Minister of Finance. The draft government law was approved in the Chamber of Deputies on 2. 5. 2007, while Miroslav Kalousek voted against the proposal, Bohuslav Sobotka abstained and Vojtěch Filip voted in favour of the proposal. Let us note that in the explanatory memorandum on the proposal for this government law, among other things, it is explicitly stated that without the application of clean biofuels and high-percent biofuels in transport, the Czech Republic will not be able to reach the Czech Republic by 31. 12. 2010 recommended share of the refund of 5,75 per cent of the energy share of all petrol and all diesel in the transport of biofuels, as laid down in Directive 2003/30/EC. Therefore, the recommended share of 5,75 per cent was not incorporated into the law in question, with the fact that the application of pure biofuels and high-percent biofuels is conditional on the price availability of motor vehicles to these fuels. The explanatory memorandum also states on page 8: In the event of a desirable change in the conditions of the domestic market in this respect, the amendment to the provisions of paragraph 1 shall be made to the extent that the provisions of paragraph 2 are amended. 1 § 3a modified another possible increase in the share of biofuels used in transport of the Czech Republic for further periods after 2009. 25 days. 2. 2008 Government of the Czech Republic by Resolution No. 164/2008 approved a document entitled Multi-annual programme to support the further application of biofuels in transport, which was subsequently approved by the European Commission on 23. 12. 2008 with effect from 1. 7. 2009 to 30. 6. 2015. Among other things, the document states on page 16: The use of biofuels as a substitute for fossil fuels - yes, we hear well, fossil fuel replacements, Putin oil replacements - is desirable in the Czech Republic and the EU, but the calculations show that the desired expansion in the application of clean biofuels and high-percent biofuels cannot occur without sufficient financial support from the state. Following the wording of Directive 2003/96/EC of 27 October 2003 amending the structure of the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, aid must be based on a reduction in the tax burden. The principle of tax advantage is always only bio-components, which means that for mixed fuels, the fossil part remains taxed at the full rate of excise duty. The most appropriate way of support is full exemption or reduction, excise duty on clean biofuels and excise duty refund on high-percent biofuels. Miroslav Kalousek was then Minister of Finance in the Czech Republic. 17, actually. 2. 2009 The Government of the Czech Republic submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties and other related laws. Deputy plaintiff was Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek. The explanatory memorandum to this proposal states that the amendment is in Law No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, implemented by the aforementioned Multiannual Programme for the Further Application of Biofuels in Transport. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum states explicitly on pages 13, 16 and 19: Since, in the end, up to 10 per cent of biofuels by 2020 are needed to be replaced by the European Commission's target - and this has not been achieved by the Czech Republic - it is not only possible to achieve this share through the compulsory marketing of low-percent biofuels, but it is necessary to create an environment so that biofuels can be marketed at a high-percent or net level, while being cost-effective and cost-competitive to traditional fossil fuels. According to the technical calculations carried out under the programme, both clean biofuels and biofuels, which are part of the high-percent blend of biofuels with fossil fuels, need to be fully taxed - Mr Kalousek said. - The tax advantage for clean and high-percent biofuels is intended, inter alia, to increase the use of these fuels on the market. [[21.40 hours]] Given the tax advantage of fatty acid methyl esters, conditions will be created for the growth of demand for methyl esters of fatty acids, which will be used to drive engines both in clean form and as a component of so-called mixed diesel. As a result of higher demand for the product of this sector, an increase in employment can also be expected. The impact on state budget revenues will be negative. 17, actually. 6. 2009 The Chamber of Deputies approved the above-mentioned Government Bill with amendments, including the stickers of the emission allowances parties, and the Member, at that time no longer the Minister, Miroslav Kalousek voted against the proposal, although the Minister proposed it, due to the addition of the emission allowances parties, and Bohuslav Sobotka voted in favour of the proposal as well as Vojtěch Filip. The Senate approved the accompanying resolution on 22 July 2009. The President signed the Act on 11 August 2009. The Act was published on 4 September 2009 in the Collection of Laws under No. 292/2009 with effect from 1 January 2009. 10. 2009. The approval of the Law resulted in a tax advantage by reducing excise duty on high-percent mixtures in proportion to the share of biofuels and the exemption from excise duty on clean biofuels. The approved support concerned fatty acid methyl esters, English FAME or also B100, methylyl esters of fatty acids, bioethanol used in high-percent emission fuels E85 and E95, mixed diesel SMN B30 with a bio-fold in the form of fatty acids methyl esters, rape oil, so-called MERO, vegetable oils, in particular rape, and biogas. Let us note here that this aid has been used only for FAME, SMN B30 and E85 motor fuels. Other biofuels are not yet used on the market. Prior to the approval of the said Act No. 292/2009 Sb. Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources was adopted in Brussels on 23 April 2009 and amending and subsequently repealing Directives77/EC and 2003/30/EC, Directive RED. Under this Directive, each Member State shall ensure that the share of energy from renewable sources in all modes of transport in 2020 is at least 10 per cent of the final consumption of energy in transport. Directive 2009/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 98/70/EC as regards the specification of petrol, diesel and gas oils, the introduction of a mechanism for monitoring and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards the specification of fuel used by inland waterway vessels and repealing Directive 93/12/EEC - Directive FQD was adopted on the same day. The FQD Directive introduces obligations for fuel suppliers to reduce greenhouse gas emissions produced throughout the life cycle from their supplied matter by 6 percent by 2020 compared to the basic standard for fossil fuels. On 18 November 2009, the Government of the Chamber of Deputies submitted a bill - amendment - amending Act No. 86/2002 Coll., on air protection and amending some other laws. The amendment followed Act No. 18/2007 Sb., in which the obligation to mix the specified amount of biofuels into the said fuels was introduced for persons showing diesel or diesel fuel in the territory of the Czech Republic. The subject matter of the Government amendment to Act No. 86/2002 Sb. was the increase in the minimum share of biofuels for diesel from 4,5 per cent to 6.3 per cent vol. at the time and, for diesel petrol, from 3,5 per cent to 4,5 per cent vol. from 1. 4. 2010. The proposed legislation should have been a contribution to the implementation of the multiannual programme for promoting the further application of biofuels in transport, which the Government adopted by Resolution 164 of 25 February 2008. In the statement of reasons for the amendment, the Government lists, inter alia, the main objectives of the amendment to the Act on pages 4 and 5, achieving the indicative objective under Directive 2003/30/EC, to which the Czech Republic has committed itself, to ensure that a minimum quantity of biofuels of 5,75 per cent of the total amount of fuel for transport purposes is marketed in 2010, to promote the use of biofuels that are renewable energy sources. At the same time, the use of biofuels in transport reduces dependence on oil - Putin's oil, we are here again - and consequently increases the security of the economy in energy supply. Support the agricultural sector. In its proposal for an amendment, the government states, among other things, that primary biofuels producers will benefit from entrepreneurs' effects on individual groups of persons concerned and institutions. To this end, the proposal states literally on page 11: Bioethanol production in the Czech Republic has a total capacity of 240,000 tonnes. Thus, with a high reserve, its expected consumption is covered after an increase according to the amendment. No subsidies are granted for the production of bioethanol. Existing partial overseas imports into the territory of the Czech Republic appear counterproductive in terms of meeting the sustainability criteria to be applied in the near future. Surovin for the production of bioethanol is enough to surplus in the Czech Republic. The increase in bioethanol production as a result of the implementation of the amendment under consideration amounts to about 37 000 tonnes per year compared to the fact of 2008. Production of FAME in the Czech Republic has a total real production capacity of 380 000 tonnes. This will cover its expected consumption with a high reserve after an increase in quota according to the amendment. No subsidies are granted for the production of FAME. - Yes, no subsidies are granted for the production of bioethanol and biodiesel so that everyone can hear it. No subsidies are granted. Existing partial imports into the territory of the Czech Republic appear counterproductive in terms of meeting the sustainability criterion. Surovin for production of FAME there is enough to surplus in the Czech Republic. The cultivation of oilseed rape as a source of raw material is economically very favourable for domestic farmers. - Here's the minister. Is he here? I will repeat for the Minister in particular, he is already leaving: The cultivation of oilseed rape as a source of raw material is economically very favourable for domestic farmers. The Minister doesn't care, but that's okay. The increase in FAME production as a result of the implementation of the amendment under consideration amounts to around 164 225 tonnes per year compared to the fact of 2008. The final summary of the government proposal for the amendment in question then explicitly states the following words - pages 13 and 14: The amendment does not entail any impact on the state budget and the return on excise duty. The negative effects of the new legislation will affect, in particular, the domestic kerosene industry, the refinery operators and their distributors. A reduction in the economic result of oil products refineries can be expected. - Well, let's see what the results are this year. I think everyone's gonna be surprised. - Smaller negative effects of price can arise for businesses in transport and citizens as private persons. These effects will not be felt. The favourable effects will be noted by producers of primary biofuels, followed by farmers in agriculture will receive significant benefits in connection with increasing crop and plant sales for the production of biofuels. Domestic biofuels producers will use the increased biocomponent content quotas in motor petrol and diesel to realise and return their investments. The amendment, which was drafted on 16 November 2009, was signed by then Prime Minister Jan Fischer and then Minister of the Environment Ladislav Miko. 17 March 2010 The Chamber of Deputies approved the Government's draft law with amendments consisting in deferring the effectiveness of the Act by two months, i.e. from 1 June 2010 and reducing the quotas for the volume shares of biofuels in motor petrol to 4.1 % vol. and diesel to 6 % vol., which, as the Minister of the Environment then told the Chamber of Deputies, was the result of some negotiations, a compromise between rape oil producers, producers of biolih, representatives of refineries and the ministries in question. [[21.50 hours]] The approved law also lays down the maximum share of biofuels in petrol, respectively. in motor diesel, applied in the form of a low-percent addition of 5% or more respectively. 7 % vol. However, the President of the Republic did not sign the approved law and returned it to the Chamber of Deputies. The vote on the President of the Law returned took place on 27 May 2010, however, the Chamber of Deputies insisted on a previously approved law. Both Miroslav Kalousek and Bohuslav Sobotka and Vojtěch Filip voted in favour of the proposal. - Kalousek, Sobotka, Filip voted for biofuels. Cool! 2010. - The Act was declared in the Collection of Laws under No. 172/2010 Coll. On 12 August 2011, the Government of the Czech Republic submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a draft air protection law, which, inter alia, it establishes certain directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, e.g. Directive 2009/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 98/70/EC as regards the specification of petrol, diesel and gas oils, establishing a mechanism for monitoring and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards the specification of fuel used by inland waterway vessels and repealing Directive 93/12/EEC. The draft government law further regulated the rights and obligations of fuel suppliers. Again, the law explicitly states the obligation of the persons concerned to ensure that in fuel, which the person puts into free tax circulation in the territory of the Czech Republic for transport purposes for a calendar year or which has been put into free tax circulation in another Member State of the European Union and which are supplied in the territory of the Czech Republic for transport purposes for a calendar year, there is also a minimum quantity of biofuels of 4,1 % vol. of the total quantity of motor petrol incorporated into motor petrol and of 6.0 % vol. of the total quantity of diesel incorporated into diesel. Once again, the draft law makes it possible to fulfil this obligation by indicating clean biofuels or mixed fuel under another legislation. Furthermore, the draft law imposes an obligation on fuel suppliers to gradually reduce greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy contained in fuel in the full life cycle of fuel so that, compared to the baseline value of greenhouse gas emissions for fossil fuels, the supplier achieves a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2% by 31. 12. 2014 by 4 % to 31. 12. 2017 and by 6 % until 31. 12. 2020. This obligation can also be achieved by the share of biofuels in fuels or clean biofuels. Miroslav Kalousek is once again Minister of Finance under the Government's bill, and then Prime Minister Petr Nečas and then Minister of Environment Tomáš Chalupa is signed. In the explanatory statement on the government proposal, bye. states on page 94: The risk of non-compliance with the legislative requirements of transposition of Directive No. 2008/50/EC of 11. 6. 2008 on ambient air quality and cleaner air for Europe, it is linked to the sanctions that the European Commission may apply to those Member States which do not comply with these requirements and, where appropriate, do not take appropriate measures to address the situation. The urgency of this situation is given by an expired transposition term 11. 6. 2010. In addition to the negative effects on human health, failure to comply with the limit values prescribed by European legislation may also lead to significant financial penalties for those Member States which do not comply with them. Currently, the Czech Republic does not comply with the long-term emission limits for suspended PM10 particles and therefore, the European Commission has already initiated infringement proceedings with it in 2008. This may result in high sanctions already being imposed in relatively early stages of this procedure due to the tightening of the terms of the TFEU. 10 February 2012 The Chamber of Deputies approved this government proposal, with amendments not concerning the issue of biofuels, however. Miroslav Kalousek and Vojtěch Filip voted in favour of the proposal, Bohuslav Sobotka abstained. Immediately after the vote of the then Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek came before the Members and said the following words: Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make one comment. Of course, the government is satisfied that it has passed this law, but I would like to make my point to the amendment adopted by the House, Mr Bureš, who, one way or another, concerns environmental protection and, one way or another, also concerns the state fiscal at a time of crisis. It reminds me a lot of the vote on lotteries, I confess. There are just moments when the government can design anything, but a certain lobby across the political spectrum will still get its way. I often tell my students at public budgets lectures that public budgets are an eternal battle between a well-organized minority who wants to cut at the expense of the rest of the common pie, and that majority, however, which is unorganized and which is called taxpayers. - Well, it's funny how he suggested it. - Let each of us tell each other, before we fall asleep this evening, whether he represented an unorganized majority or a well-organized minority. Thank you for your attention. On the reply from Bohuslav Sobotka, Minister Miroslav Kalousek said in front of Members: For the sake of clarity, I voted in the finals for this government proposal because it is a good law, and it is a necessary transposition, it is a so-called EU law. As a result, its advantages outweigh some of the concessions made by the House during the vote, so it is a step forward, not a step forward. I criticized the concessions, not that the House passed the law. And that's why I took the liberty of comparing it to a lottery where, if I remember correctly, Mr Sobotka, you had it a little differently with the majority and minorities back then. Thank you. The Senate returned the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies with amendments, but they did not concern biofuels, and MEPs approved the Act with effect from 2 May 2012. 9. 2012. Miroslav Kalousek did not vote in this re-vote because he was excused from attending the meeting, Bohuslav Sobotka voted in favour of the proposal, Vojtěch Filip abstained. The Act was declared in the Collection of Laws under No. 201/2012 Coll. 12. 9. 2012 Government of the Czech Republic approved the Action Plan for Biomass in the Czech Republic for the period 2012-2020. The aim of the material was to define measures and principles leading to the effective and efficient use of biomass energy potential in relation to the fulfilment of the Czech Republic's commitments to the production of energy from renewable sources by 2020. Part of the material is also a chapter entitled Potentially grown biomass for the production of biofuels in transport, in which among others. determines the optimal mix of crops to ensure the raw material for the production of biofuels. In this context, the text of the action programme indicates a scenario in case the State significantly supports the use of alcohol in the liquid biofuels market over the medium term. In the government, Miroslav Kalousek is Minister of Finance at the time. On 3. 10. 2012 The Government of the Czech Republic issued a regulation on the sustainability criteria for biofuels, Regulation No. 351/2012 Coll., with effect from 1 November 2012, which is incorporated by the relevant regulations of the European Union, inter alia. Directive 2009/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 98/70/EC as regards the specification of petrol, diesel and gas oils, establishing a mechanism for monitoring and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards the specification of fuel used by inland waterway vessels and repealing Directive 93/12/EEC and laying down criteria for the sustainability of biofuels, quality requirements and mass balance systems and other matters. I'll see you in the book. establishes a minimum greenhouse gas emission saving for the use of biofuels meeting sustainability criteria compared to greenhouse gas emissions generated throughout the life cycle of a reference fossil fuel of 35 per cent to 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[2.00 hours]] This obligation already envisages the use and development of biofuels in the future. In the reign of Petr Nečas, Miroslav Kalousek is Minister of Finance at that time. Elders similar to the Government Decree No 446/2011 Coll., on the sustainability criteria for biofuels, has been repealed by the new regulation. On the day of 8. 11. 2012 was the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic No. 804 approved update of the National Action Plan of the Czech Republic for energy from renewable sources. The preamble to this plan of August 2012 states literally: The form and structure of the submitted National Action Plan of the Czech Republic for Energy from OZ is binding on Commission Decision 2009/548/EC of 30 June 2009 establishing a model for national action plans for renewable energy pursuant to Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The link between the action plans and the proposed values between the Member States is carried out because of the cross-compliance of the document form. Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council The target for the European Union as a whole in 2020 of 23 April 2009 on promoting the use of energy from renewable sources is 20 per cent of the share of energy from renewable sources and 10 per cent of the share of energy from renewable sources in transport. For the Czech Republic, at least 13 percent of the share of energy from renewable sources in gross final energy consumption has been determined by the European Commission. At the same time, the achievement of this objective must ensure a minimum of 10 per cent of the share of renewable resources in transport. In 2020, the National Action Plan of the Czech Republic on Renewable Energy proposes achieving 14 percent of the share of energy from renewable sources in gross final energy consumption and 10.8% of the share of energy from renewable sources in gross final transport consumption. At the end of this document, a number of appropriate future measures by the State for achieving a mandatory minimum of 10% of the share of renewables in transport in 2020. At the same time, it is acknowledged that this objective cannot be achieved only through the low-percent addition of biofuels to motor petrol and diesel fuels, while in the original text of the document, this conclusion is even underlined on page 101: As part of the gradual increase in biofuels as alternative fuels from renewable energy sources in transport, it must be based on the real fact that 10% of the target in 2020 cannot be achieved by adding biofuels to motor petrol and diesel. - And that was true. The assumption was true, so that's exactly how it turned out. So no commitment is made, and now the new government is shutting everything down. Furthermore, the text of the approved document is followed by a list of the measures already mentioned. These include: developing a real concept of the application of biofuels in the Czech Republic as alternative motor fuels from renewable sources in transport up to 2020, rethinking the existing and other possibilities for the use of biofuels for propulsion, in particular the wider use of both pure biofuels and high-percent biofuels, mainly in the agriculture, construction, mining or transport industries, enabling the use of clean biofuels - FAME/MERO - or high-percent biofuels - SMN30 - for the drive of motor vehicles operated by Czech Railways, creating state-wide conditions for the application of biofuels comparable to those for compressed natural gas for transport purposes, creating state-wide conditions for faster replacement of existing fleet in the Czech Republic, in particular in terms of promoting the production and import of new vehicles for alternative fuels produced from biomass, developing the necessary legislation to support the implementation of the proposed measures - a new law on air protection, amending the Law on excise taxes, legislative treatment of support for prospective production and use of biofuels II. and III. generation. From this list, it is clear that the government of Petr Nečas envisaged at least the tax advantage of biofuels and high-percent blend of biofuels with fossil fuels after 2015. At that time, Miroslav Kalousek was Minister of Finance in the government that approved this action plan. Since 2013, a number of meetings have been held by the working group at which the amendments to the European Commission's proposal submitted by the Irish and then the Lithuanian Presidency have been discussed. At the meeting of the European Union Energy Council on 12. 12. 2013 - at that time, Jiří Rusnok is chairman of the administrative government - presented the Lithuanian Presidency with a compromise proposal to amend the text of the European Commission, but the text was not approved. The Czech Republic supported this compromise proposal with a number of reservations. The unapproved compromise text also contained a requirement to limit the use of biofuels produced from food biomass and also addressed the issue of support. advanced biofuels. Furthermore, the compromise proposal allowed a statistical transfer of a certain quantity of biofuels from one Member State to another in 2020 to meet 10% of the energy share from renewable sources, mainly biofuels. 6 days. 8. 2014 Government of the Czech Republic - Minister of Finance is Andrej Babiš - Resolution No. 655 approved a document entitled Multi-annual programme to support the continued application of sustainable biofuels in transport for the period 2015-2020. The programme was submitted by the Ministry of Agriculture and follows up on a document entitled Multi-annual programme to support the further application of biofuels in transport approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 25. 2. By order No 2008 164/2008 and subsequently approved by the European Commission on 23. 12. 2008 with effect from 1. 7. 2009 to 30. 6. 2015. As with this initial multiannual programme, the new multiannual programme of 2014 is also designed on the basis of Article 3 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That Directive allows exemptions or reductions in the tax rate for selected products on the basis of multiannual programmes. In view of the possible impacts resulting from the revision of the RED and FQD directives on the further use of biofuels in the Czech Republic, the obligation to gradually reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fuels and the obligation to meet 10 per cent of the energy content of biofuels and renewable electricity on total energy consumption in transport by the end of 2020. However, the programme limits the possibilities of achieving the targets set for conventional biofuels and creates a pressure on the use of biofuels with greenhouse gas emission savings higher than 50 per cent since 2017. The programme also includes the balance of net biofuels and high-percent blends of biofuels with fossil fuels placed on the market in the Czech Republic between 2010 and 2013 and the amount of financial support granted by exemption from excise duty on the relevant share of biofuels in a given pure biofuels or in a given high-percent mixture, according to the notified programme for this support for the period from 1. 7. 2009 to 30. 6. 2015. Programme approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 25. 2. By order No 2008 164/2008 and the European Commission on 23. 12. 2008. This balance sheet and the amount of financial support can be seen in Table 1 below. Note that biofuels that are placed on the market in the Czech Republic under standardised low-percent mixtures with fossil fuels - the amount of biofuels of 4,1 per cent vol of the total amount of motor petrol incorporated into motor petrol and of 6.0 per cent vol of the total quantity of diesel incorporated into diesel fuel - are not financially favoured, i.e. these biofuels are not exempt from excise duty. The text of the programme from the Ministry of Agriculture pen also contains a clear table of the amount of excise duties, current aids and proposed aids for each type of clean biofuels and high-percent blends of biofuels with fossil fuels that it leaves or reduces. The government's approved programme for promoting the continued use of sustainable biofuels in transport for the years 2015 to 2020 includes an analysis of the issues of the so-called advanced biofuels - biofuels - so-called 2nd and 3rd generation. [[22.10 hours]] In the text of the programme, by the way. states: Modern biofuels, respectively. advanced biofuels or also 2nd and 3rd generation biofuels are generally produced from non-food raw materials and do not immediately compete with the food sector. Due to the technological and financial complexity of their production, they are currently not available for commercial use. However, their gradual expansion can be expected in the near future, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that such biofuels are as competitive as possible with other traditional biofuels used. For this reason, it is essential that a zero excise duty on mineral oils, respectively, be applied to modern biofuels. full exemption from excise duty on mineral oils. - So this is a 2015 material, and second and third generation biofuels still don't exist. It's like someone says in the Green Deal that we're going to have new technologies and we're going to replace everything, and it's kind of nonsense. The text of the approved programme also contains an estimate of the consumption of biofuels and high-percent mixtures of biofuels with fossil fuels for the period 2015-2020 and related estimates of further monitored data. Table 3 provides estimates for the purposes of this text of relevant indicators: Estimates of financial support for net biofuels and high-percent mixtures of biofuels with fossil matter and related estimates for agricultural employment and for the national budget under the multiannual programme. The annual contribution of one worker to the state budget in accordance with the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic is considered in the range of CZK 225 to 250,000. And now the government's shutting it down. I guess the government wants higher unemployment, otherwise I can't explain it). In August 2014, the Government of the Czech Republic, a member of which is Andrej Babiš, approved by the multiannual programme, states on the amounts of tax aid for each type of biofuels: These proposed, respectively. the approved and notified aids will be reviewed annually as to whether they do not show overcompensation. 25 days. 2. 2015 The Government of the Czech Republic, with the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, and other related laws. The aim of the Government's bill is to implement the Multi-annual Programme of Support for the Further Application of Sustainable Biofuels in Transport for the period 2015-2020. The government's proposal is to keep the minimum shares of biofuels in low-percent mixtures - motor gasoline, respectively. diesel - per calendar year, reduce the tax advantage of clean biofuels and high-percent blends of biofuels with fossil fuels, tighten the obligations of fuel suppliers in relation to the use of biofuels in fuels and introduce monitoring of the fulfilment of their obligations during the calendar year. The Government's proposal for a law follows in August 2014 by the Government approved the Multiannual Support Programme for the Further Application of Sustainable Biofuels in Transport for the period 2015-2020. Note that this government-approved programme was sent to the European Commission in September 2014, which raised reservations as part of the notification process regarding the method of calculation of the proposed tax advantages and therefore had to be adjusted by the programme predicted tax advantages in the submitted government bill. The government bill therefore reduces the tax advantage of fuel SMN B30 by increasing their excise duty from the current value of CZK 7.665/litre to CZK 8,415/litre - SGN B30 is a mixed diesel with rape oil methyl esters, where the proportion of methyl ester in the mixture is at least 30% volume; reduces the tax advantage of fuel B100 by increasing the actual tax contribution from current 0 CZK/litre to 1,80 CZK/litre - B100 are pure fatty acid methyl esters; abolishes the tax advantage of fatty acid ethyl esters; reduces the tax advantage of vegetable oils intended for the propulsion of engines by increasing the actual tax contribution from the current 0 CZK/litre to CZK 1,18 per litre; leaves the existing total exemption from excise duty for biogas in liquid or gaseous form intended for the propulsion of engines; leaves the existing possibility of total exemption from excise duty for second generation biofuels - which do not exist; leaves the existing possibility of total exemption from excise duty on fuel E95 and reduces the tax advantage on fuel E85 from the current CZK 12,84/litre of biolith contained in E85 to CZK 11,31/litre of biolith contained in E85. Furthermore, the Government's draft law introduces monitoring of compliance with the obligations to indicate the specified quantities of biofuels in fuel during the calendar year in response to practical findings of circumvention of these obligations. One of the established forms of circumvention of the statutory obligation is the purpose of the fuel suppliers, who, during the calendar year, put into free tax circulation and/or during the long term. supply in free tax circulation from other Member States in the territory of the Czech Republic for transport purposes exclusively fuel-free biofuels and before the end of the specified period they will cease all activities without fulfilling the statutory obligation. According to the explanatory memorandum to the Government's draft law, the finding of infringements is possible only after the end of the calendar year, and self-guarantee of redress, including the imposition of sanctions, is very problematic, virtually. Unreal. According to the explanatory memorandum, the Government's draft law also provides for a new obligation to lodge on a special account by the customs office a security corresponding to the quantity of non-delivered biofuels, which, according to the explanatory memorandum, is to make a significant contribution to reducing the amount of any non-payment on fines for not putting the minimum amount of biofuels into free tax circulation imposed on fuel suppliers who have not complied with the statutory obligation. The government bill also addresses the issue of unauthorized re-counting of biofuels, which is repeatedly introduced into free tax movement, circulation in the territory of the Czech Republic or in other Member States, or supplied in free tax circulation from another Member State in the territory of the Czech Republic. In the explanatory memorandum submitted by the Government's proposal, the overall impact of the proposed adjustments on public budgets is stated literally: The costs of the proposed adjustment are linked to lower excise collection. The overall accumulated negative impact, 2015-2020) of this variant in public budgets, as a result of the unselected excise duty, should be around CZK 9 billion according to the programme and subsequent calculations. Of this, about CZK 8.2 billion should be a lower collection of the state budget and CZK 820 million should be a lower collection of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. On the other hand, the programme implies a significant positive impact on employment and subsequent contributions to public budgets. This option is intended to create about 14,000 new jobs and during the programme bring 14.6 to 16.2 billion crowns to the budgets. Therefore, the overall cumulative impact on public budgets should be positive in 2015-2020 according to the programme at 5,57,2 billion. Furthermore, the Government's draft law leaves the existing obligation for fuel suppliers per calendar year to ensure a minimum quantity of biofuels of 4,1 per cent vol. from the total quantity of motor petrol incorporated into motor petrol and of 6.0 per cent vol. from the total quantity of diesel incorporated into diesel. However, a new fuel supplier may only fulfil the obligation of up to 1.2% vol. of the total quantity of motor petrol incorporated into motor petrol or only 1.8 per cent vol. of the total quantity of diesel fuel incorporated into diesel fuel, including the indication of pure biofuels or a high-percent mixture of biofuels with fossil fuels for free tax circulation in the Czech Republic for transport purposes. Let us note that this restriction - up to 1,2%, respectively, in the current regulation. up to 1,8 % - is not, and therefore currently the fuel supplier can fulfil his obligation to the parties to the minimum shares of biofuels in diesel petrol, respectively. in diesel fuel as well as the introduction of pure biofuels or a high-percent blend of biofuels with fossil fuels into circulation, to the extent specified by the minimum shares of biofuels - 4,1 per cent, respectively. 6.0 % vol. In addition, the Government's draft law re-establishes the obligation for fuel suppliers during the period of the year, January to March, January to June, January to September, to ensure a minimum quantity of biofuels of 2,9% vol of the total amount of motor petrol incorporated into motor petrol and 4,2 per cent vol of the total quantity of diesel incorporated into diesel. The proposed restriction on the introduction into the tax circulation of pure biofuels and a high-percent mixture of biofuels with fossil fuels is stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Government's proposal: Based on experience, it has been identified that the excessive use of these fuels leads to the deformation of the fuel market, where a substantial part of the normal fuel, which should contain a smaller part of the bio-component, does not contain this bio-folder. [[22.20 hours]] Since biofuels intended for use, offered for sale or used for the propulsion of engines are exempt from excise duty, while the normal fuel containing certain quantities of the bio-component is subject to excise duty, the state of the excise duty which the fuel supplier would have to pay in the event that the obligation under paragraph 1 would have been fulfilled by means of normal fuels containing a bio-fold in volume according to the ČSN-EN standards described above. The proposed solution will allow a future increase in the mandatory share of biofuels in § 19 para. 1 and at the same time reduces the decline in the revenue of the state budget from the taxes not collected, which are imposed on fuel. At the same time, the government proposal leaves the existing obligation of fuel suppliers to gradually reduce greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy contained in fuel compared to the basic value of greenhouse gas production for fossil fuels so that the supplier achieves a reduction of 2% by 31 December 2014, by 4 % by 31 December 2017 and by 6 % by 31 December 2020, but newly enables this obligation to be fulfilled by including the introduction of pure biofuels or mixed fuel into the tax circulation in the territory of the Czech Republic for transport purposes. The proposal also contains comments on the impact of proposed adjustments on biofuels production operators, including companies belonging to AGROFERT: Ethanol Energy, a. s., Primagra, a. s., PREOL, a. s. As demand for alcohol that meets the sustainability criteria for biofuels increases due to the tax advantage of biofuels, an increase in demand for the production of these Czech distillers can also be expected. However, the same conditions will apply to bioethanol originating in the European Union or imported from third countries and consumed in the tax territory of the Czech Republic, so it will depend very much on the cost items of this production. As the demand for FAME meeting the sustainability criteria for biofuels increases due to the tax advantage of biofuels, an increase in demand for production of these Czech producers can also be expected. However, the same advantages will also apply to products originating in the European Union or imported from third countries and consumed in the tax territory of the Czech Republic. It will therefore depend very much on the cost elements of this FAME production in the Czech Republic. Increased production may lead to an increase in employment. In the Czech Republic, approximately 13 fuel manufacturers B30 and 2 fuel producers E85 produce mixed fuels. It is possible to expect an increase in production of these entities with potential positive effects on employment. The explanatory memorandum of the government proposal also shows an estimate of the number of vehicles that can currently use pure biofuels or a high-percent blend of biofuels with fossil fuels: The expert estimate in the Czech Republic is able to burn the fuel E85 about 8,000 vehicles, the fuel B30 most diesel-powered vehicles produced after 1997 and the fuel B100 most trucks. At present, they also use diesel engines by vessels, railway vehicles and locomotives, and motor gasoline by small vessels. These means of transport are also able to burn alternative fuels. So much for the material. I have all the votes here. So I didn't... don't worry, I'll keep going. You're welcome to relax. It's the same as in 2015. An existing coalition that claims that by shutting down the bio-component with a cheaper fuel, it normally lies and supports Putinův's oil. It was published by the Foundation for Corruption, which never liked me, so I think it's objective. And it's just hypocrisy where the government says something that's untrue, and in the finals it supports Putinův's oil. Here I have the opinion of the biodiesel Association, which is dated 10 March 2002, on a proposal from the government to abolish the incorporation of biofuels into diesel fuel. The association for biodiesel production of the Czech Republic as a professional association of biofuels producers into diesel not only from agricultural raw materials, but also from biowaste, used kitchen oils and animal fats strongly opposes the proposal of the Government of the Czech Republic to abolish the incorporation of biofuels into diesel fuel and to retain this obligation only for automotive petrol. Production and market application has been systematically developed in our Republic within the then federal government approved by the oleo-programme since 1992 even. The mandatory incorporation of biofuels into diesel fuel through the Air Protection Act was initiated by 1. 9. 2007, 2007, for a quantity of 2 % vol., and to diesel petrol in the same quantity as from 1 January 2008. From 1. 6. 2010 this percentage increase for diesel to 6 per cent and for diesel to 4,1 per cent vol. [[increased]] This means that what was valid has been valid since 2010 - 2010, independently from Babiš. Independent of Babiš. On the contrary, entrepreneurs were motivated to invest. Europe was just talking about biofuels, renewables. This biofuels obligation has been stable for almost 12 years, although the European Union's demands on the share of sustainable biofuels and other renewable energy sources in transport are increasing. In 2020, the target was 10 per cent, and for 2030, the current approved objective of the OZ in transport is 14 per cent. This sets a ceiling for certified biofuels from crop cultivation of 7 per cent. No previous government, it says in the letter from the biodiesel Association, no previous government has taken up the abolition of the biofuel obligation during almost 30 years. It is indisputable, despite the criticism accompanying them throughout the period of application on the market, that they contribute to the achievement of known objectives. In particular, it is an increase in energy self-sufficiency. The Prime Minister is still talking about energy security, so it's about increasing energy self-sufficiency. - Solving crop surpluses by simultaneously producing protein feed and other raw materials, maintaining employment in rural areas and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport through the sustainability of certified biofuels. Of course, the weight of individual partial targets changes with regard to the climate, economic and political situation. This proposed solution would not only grossly violate technological neutrality, which is the fundamental principle of all EU acts and legislation in this area, but is entirely unqualified based on the fact that biofuels for diesel are only produced on the basis of rape oil. Domestic biodiesel production capacity uses inputs other than rape oil. They have already reached 66 percent of the total capacity. The use of used kitchen oils, animal fats unsuitable for human nutrition, free fatty acids, among other things, supports the achievement of targets in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport, as well as the principles of a circular economy and strengthening the role of renewable energy in the energy mix of the state. Moreover, these biofuels exhibit excellent parameters in achieving savings on fossil fuels. [[22.30 hours]] Furthermore, this letter, which is signed by . Petr Jevič, Managing Director of the biodiesel Association, writes: In 2016, biodiesel was produced only from oilseed rape in the Czech Republic. In 2020, it was 67 percent. If, in 2019, the share of biodiesel from rape oil in the fuel market in the Czech Republic accounted for 73 per cent, only 45 per cent in 2020. In 2020, to which the European Union's objectives related to the share of RES in transport 10 % and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in transport 6 %, the share of RES in transport in the Czech Republic was 9.38 %. All biofuels accounted for only 6,1% of this. Biofuel from grown crops accounted for 4.6 %, as one of the few countries of the European Union, the Czech Republic met the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport by 6.1 percent. All this thanks to legislation, which the current government counterproductively interferes with. The need to meet emissions reductions in transport 6 %, the European Commission is preparing to amend a directive which considers a 22% reduction in fuel emissions, is given at European level to all Member States and would remain completely unchanged by this rapid decision, because it is not within the competence of the governments of the EU Member States. Thus, the need for the use of certified biofuels in diesel would probably remain the same for mandatory persons in the Czech Republic, as other possibilities of meeting greenhouse gas emission reductions are not available at the moment, and thus the alleged objective, i.e. The immediate decrease in diesel prices was not achieved anyway. Taking into account the quoted prices of petrol, diesel, biodiesel and bioethanol as at 7. 3. 2022, so when the FAME is incorporated into diesel at a rate of 6 % vol., the price including VAT will be raised by 1.23 CZK per litre and bioethanol to motor petrol at a rate of 5 % vol. by 0,28 CZK per litre. At the same time, the prices of both fuels at service stations exceed CZK 50 per litre. - The beginning of March of this year. The relevant Section 19 of the Air Protection Act, which specifies the biofuel obligation, contains a double advantage for advanced biofuels, second generation biofuels, which has been used in the Czech Republic since 2019. Its abolition will also abolish the support of these biofuels. All biofuels producers in the Czech Republic would be affected by this measure regardless of the real sources of raw materials. In the country, large investments in innovative technologies that can process waste biooils and fats would be wasted. Moreover, in the Czech Republic, a significant proportion of biofuels and hydrogenated oils are imported as renewable oil by renowned European suppliers whose biofuels with Czech rape and Czech rape oil have nothing to do with them. Possible other, very limited solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for diesel in addition to the use of available and environmentally efficient biofuels are often more expensive and complicated. According to our association, a government proposal for diesel without a bio-component, which should bring a rapid reduction in the price of fossil fuels, can even produce an effect completely opposite. The incorporation of biofuels is regulated by the Act on Air Protection and Supported Energy Resources, so formal notification by the government will require legislative action that cannot be affected by the current dramatic daily price growth caused by developments in international oil markets. This government decision comes surprisingly at a time when all Europe is looking for ways to reduce its dependence on oil and petroleum products often originating in the Russian Federation. So our government says we're going to reduce addiction and increase it at the same time. He just makes people look like idiots. This unprecedented step will bring an increase in oil consumption by hundreds of thousands of tons per year. - I counted it at 14 billion. So this government will support Putin and buy more oil for $14 billion. So this is the fight for independence from Putin and the fight against Czech farmers. This is a very inappropriate signal to the whole world at this difficult time, when at least European countries are difficult to find a balance between social events in Ukraine, dependence on oil and their own energy or general raw material self-sufficiency. Moreover, where agricultural commodities are still used for production, the potential decline in the production of biofuels into diesel will cause considerable damage not only to the Czech agriculture and food industry. This can be demonstrated by the following balance sheet. He writes, I repeat, the biodiesel Association. In 2020, 259 000 tonnes of biodiesel were produced in the Czech Republic, of which 172 000 tonnes were produced from oilseed rape. It used 424,000 tonnes for this, which accounted for 34 percent of the total harvest. Its processing brought 247 000 tonnes of rape extracted scraps of non-genetically modified, replacing expensive imported soya-bean scraps. In addition, 20,000 tonnes of glycerin in kosher quality farm were produced during the processing of rape oil into biodiesel and other residues were produced very desirable as input raw material to biogas stations. The restriction on the processing of rape in the Czech Republic will not bring a reduction in production areas, as the oil processing industry in the European Union will be significantly absent due to the situation in Ukraine. Of course, higher exports of high quality Czech rape will please mainly foreign customers. So it's just the biodiesel Association. Ever since I joined politics, people around here have been hearing Babišův's rape. Maybe it would be good for someone to finally learn how it works. Who decides what he sows, what will be in the field? The farmer, of course. And if rape used to cost $5,000, it's $20,000 today. And that's why the rape oil is going to cost a lot more. Why? Well, because it would be good to finally tell people that they're using rape oil to cook. That it's not biofuels. Cooking. And if Ukraine does not sow, and Ukraine supplies 40 percent of sunflower oil to the entire European Union, then we will all wonder how much sunflower oil will cost. So it would be good for someone to finally explain to people that the political parties understand that the strategy that they have applied since the revolution here, that we will bring everything to ourselves, that we do not need self-sufficient Czech agriculture, that we have made a fundamental mistake, that is, our predecessors, that they have allowed the land to be sold to foreigners, and not like Polák and Maďar who have forbidden it, so of course it will be a big problem, and even though there is enough food today, so that sometimes we are not surprised that we have some problem with crop, problem with grain, etc. This is the part that I wanted to inform here, which has been published and which only confirms that the existing coalition has supported biofuels since 2007 and, instead of increasing the content of biofuels, now supports Putinův's oil 14 billion a year, damages Czech farmers and is actually trying to tell people the opposite. Now I would like to talk about new sustainability rules and greenhouse gas emission savings in bioenergy. The revised European directive to promote the use of renewable energy from 2018 brings more ambitious targets to help transform energy. At the same time, however, it makes new demands. One is the sustainability criteria and the savings of greenhouse gas emissions for electricity and heating from solid biomass and biogas. [[2.40 hours]] This isn't all news. Similar rules already apply to biofuels, such as bioethanol or biomass, if used in transport. For the next decade, European legislation extends these rules to the production of electricity, heating and cooling from solid biomass and biogas. So they touch large heat plants, burning chips or straw for the first time, as well as biogas stations. The aim is to ensure that biomass for energy is not grown at the expense of nature conservation, good agricultural land or forests and that the resulting bioenergy contributes to climate change mitigation. The origin of biomass and carbon footprint. Biomass energy provides almost 60 percent of all renewable energy in the European Union. In the Czech Republic it is about 87 percent. Production of biomass energy as a substitute for burning fossil fuels is one of the key measures for climate change mitigation, provided that it is produced efficiently and sustainablely. A new legislation is behind the effort to ensure that biomass for energy is not grown at the expense of conservation of nature, good agricultural land or forests, and that the resulting bioenergy - unlike fossil fuels - does not contribute to climate change. As the names already suggest, these are two headings of the rules, although they are related. The sustainability criteria control where biomass came from. The criteria for greenhouse gas emission savings are the carbon footprint of the cultivation and extraction of biomass, up to the energy produced from biomass itself. Sustainability of biomass fuels. The sustainability criteria address the origin of biomass. Agricultural biomass for the production of bioenergy shall not come from the soil for which the forest fell, dried wetland or protected areas. Straw must be used in heating plants only to the extent that its incineration and retention in the field will not endanger soil quality and organic matter content. Mining of forest biomass must not jeopardise the production capacity of forests, the restoration of forest and nature conservation requirements must be ensured. Foresters must also take care of soil quality and biodiversity. Most domestic biomass used for energy purposes is likely not to have difficulties in meeting sustainability criteria. Biomass comes from a territory that has long been managed and the state treats most of the requirements of the directive in its laws. Statková fertilizer or biowaste, which process biogas stations, comes from the nearest neighborhood, often directly from the farm of the station operator. Corn or hay is harvested from fields and meadows that have been cultivated for decades. Similarly, most wood chips from forest extraction residues or waste materials from the wood processing industry do not take a long way to our furnaces and heat plants. It is simply a different market than the one with palm oil from Malaysia and Indonesia for the production of liquid biofuels. There it is appropriate to take care of the risks associated with deforestation in countries from which certain commodities are imported. Saving greenhouse gas emissions. The criteria for saving greenhouse gas emissions give rise to a minimum reduction in carbon footprint throughout the life cycle of biomass production, fuel processing and bioenergy use compared to the fossil alternative. In contrast to fossil fuels, electricity, heating and cooling from biomass fuels must save at least 70 per cent of the greenhouse gas emissions for biomass fuels used in installations which have been operational since January 2021, respectively. 80 per cent for biomass fuels used in installations which have been operational since January 2026. The Directive sets out the reference values for the carbon intensity of the production of fossil fuels for each sector. [[electricity, heating and cooling, transport]] The biomass energy producer shall demonstrate that the amount of greenhouse gas emitted per unit of energy supplied by it throughout the life cycle is at least 70 or less. 80 percent. The operators of resources that are already standing can leave these rules calm. They shall relate to installations put into service not earlier than 2021. The criteria, however, need to be included in the decision-making of new projects and it is necessary to expect that regulation in this area will rather tighten up. Who, then, do the new rules concern? The Directive should be reflected by Member States in their laws by the end of June 2021 at the latest. The sustainability criteria and emission savings will only apply to biogas stations producing electricity, heating and cooling with a heat input of at least 2 MW, which is approximately 0,8 MW of electrical power at 40 percent efficiency. In the case of solid biomass, it will be large installations with a thermal input of at least 20 MW. States, however, have the opportunity to reduce this limit. The rules would thus have to meet a smaller half of biogas stations, around ten large heat plants and biomass burning plants. For these manufacturers, this means certifying bioenergy and thinking about the life cycle of production from cultivation to fuel to the supply of bioenergy to the market. Why is fulfillment important? Only after meeting the criteria will it be possible to include biogas and solid biomass energy in meeting renewable energy consumption targets and achieve public support. In its National Energy and Climate Plan, the Government of the Czech Republic undertook to ensure 22 percent of energy consumption from renewable sources by 2030. It is our contribution to the European Union's commitment to secure 32% of renewable energy by 2030. Biomass plays a major role in meeting these objectives. Operators who receive public support for energy produced from biomass, for example in the form of a green bonus, will have to demonstrate that they meet the criteria. For example, the fact that operators included in the emission allowance trading scheme need not exclude emission allowances for CO2 emissions from biomass is also considered public aid. If they burn biomass together with coal. Production of electricity from biomass in large sources. Special conditions apply to electricity produced from biomass fuels. The electricity from biomass shall be included in renewable energy if it meets at least one of the following conditions: it is a device with a power input of up to 50 MW, the power input ranges from 50 to 100 MW and it is a highly efficient cogeneration or a plant with the best available technologies - BAT), the power input is higher than 100 MW, but the electrical efficiency is at least 36 per cent, the equipment captures and stores carbon dioxide from biomass. Biofuels in transport and transport. Biofuels used in transport and biofuels used for the production of electricity, heating and cooling must comply with the sustainability and savings criteria of greenhouse gas emissions for almost a decade in the EU, thanks to the original 2009 directive. In the Czech Republic the rules apply from 2012 after the adoption of Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on air protection. In 2015, the Union introduced new rules aimed at addressing greenhouse gas emissions associated with land use changes, for which there is an increased interest in agricultural commodities for bioenergy production. The revised 2018 Directive also extended the criteria to energy from biomass fuels in electricity and heating sectors. While liquid biofuels, such as bioethanol or biomethane fueling CNG or biocNG vehicles, must already meet the criteria today, for biogas electricity and heat producers, wood chips or straw it is news. The revised directive brings a new trajectory for emission savings for biofuels and biogas consumed in the transport sector. The basic savings of the greenhouse gas emissions of biofuels, biogas consumed in the transport sector and shall be at least 50 per cent compared to the fossil alternative. The requirement shall be tightened to at least 60% of the savings for fuels produced in installations which have been in operation since 6 October 2015 and to at least 65% for fuels produced in installations in operation since 1 January 2021. So much for the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 of the European Parliament and of the Council. [[2.50 hours]] And now we're going to say what sustainable sustainability is, and that's information, the BIOM magazine on energy. Sustainability is undoubtedly a word that belongs to the modern dictionary, as well as climate, Green Deal, covid-19. As such, he is often abused or overused, and if his use exceeds my or each of you's personal tolerance, that word becomes annoying to me. The word'sustainability', especially in conjunction with'sustainable development', makes me uncomfortable. I hear and see them everywhere, and I defend myself almost every day with his attacks from public space to my personal space. However, the meaning of the word, or the set of measures and approaches that it represents in itself, is very close to me. For myself, I replace it with the phrase "good continuation of life." I want life on Earth to continue, and I want my children and their children to have good conditions to live. That's what Martin Schwarz, head of the Biometano section, says. And what else does he say? I believe that biomass has a good future that depends on how we live. Allow me to turn to theoretical economics. The reality and how we perceive it is purely subjective. For example, materially secured or even rich ones need not be happy, even though we can perceive or believe that such ones are not missing anything. Each and every one of us as a whole society perceives the satisfaction of life subjectively. For each individual it is a mix of material and nonmaterial values that we give different preferences to. The values that make life happy are certainly food in the first place, and whether we have enough of them, how much work we have, how much work we get for it, and what we can afford to get, our health, education, the environment around us, how much free time we have and how much free time we can spend, how free we are and what cultural environment we live in. In the past decades, we have experienced practically constant economic growth. The popularity of material values continued to grow and social demand for intangible values continued to decline. The current situation is a logical consequence of unsustainable economic growth. For me, as an economist, says Martin Schwarz, sustainable economic growth is nonsense. It is naive to think that it is possible to produce and consume more and more and that economic growth is infinite, something like "give me everything and I will evaluate it by 10 per cent each year." The economic growth of our Western civilization has not been sustainable and I consider it unmanaged. It is only possible in a developed society that has lost the moral-social capacity of self-flexion. We make the company. We who deliberately consume and use what harms us, what hurts us, or kills us directly. I believe you will find such examples in your neighborhood or in yourself few. Our insubordination in consumption and materiality is the cause of poor environment, global warming and other climate change. It is precisely because we are long ago, as they say behind the edge and the state of the environment is not sustainable, that sustainability has been referred to as something that will save economic growth. I want to say "fuck economic growth," this is about our environment, our lives. And thanks for giving economic growth a stop sign from the environment, says Martin Schwarz. Unfortunately, we and our children do not want to live as a result of climate change now. Unfortunately, this is not the current pandemic of coronavirus that we are experiencing this year and thanks to which we immediately take various measures that would not be imaginable at the beginning of the year. I don't want to speculate whether covid-19 is really such a massive threat to society. Thankfully, we may still have time to take measures that will alleviate and best stop climate change. Perhaps, thanks to the pandemic, at least as a society, we will be more sensitive to the values that we have ever considered during an unfinished consumption period. I am glad that the questions of national self-sufficiency, the origin of food, but also the origin of energy and fuels and the use of raw materials from waste are on the table again. The behaviour of a person to the environment and his use of resources "to debt" completely side with the question of whether a person is responsible for climate change and, for example, whether drought is the impact of global change. It is quite clear that no matter how often we use the word sustainability, it is simply not sustainable. The change will include renewable energy, which will replace non-recoverable energy sources. Renewable fuels will replace the fossil fuel, says Mr. Martin Schwarz. But he had no idea what would happen after Russia's aggression in Ukraine. How intensively and when the change will take place will, of course, depend on technical and economic possibilities, but mostly on how much we will feel threatened by climate change. The greater the sense of danger we will feel, the more we will wish for change and the faster decarbonisation will occur - the decline of fossil energy sources and fossil fuels. I think, and it's a basic feature of the human race, that we're comfortable, but certainly not stupid. Mr. Martin Schwarz is talking about this, talking about biomass potential, biomass in the next decades. And bioenergy is the most widespread renewable resource, although in general our ideas are dominated by photovoltaic panels, this is the tunnel that we inherited here for 600 billion, on the roofs of houses, or wind parks near our western neighbours. And it would have worked if, of course, someone didn't want to make billions at the expense of our citizens. Biomass provides more than half of the less than a fifth of the energy provided by renewable sources in the European Union. 17.5 percent of the energy consumption in 2017 in the European Union was from renewable sources, and bioenergy contributed almost 60 percent to this renewable energy. This is mainly due to the fact that the heating sector is responsible for most of our energy consumption and is currently playing biomass among other renewable sources of primary. This includes both the combustion of fuel wood directly in households and the supply of remote heat produced in heating plants or heating plants, such as: in Třebíč, Kutná Hora or Dobruška. How you dominance biomass will turn into decades to come, only time will tell. Bioenergy reduces greenhouse gas emissions now and here. So far, renewable energy cards in the European Union are distributed from 59 percent of the energy from biomass and 15 percent of the energy from water and wind. Heating and cooling is responsible for 47 per cent of energy consumption in the European Union, while transport at 31 per cent and electricity at 22 per cent. Bioenergy thus plays primary renewable energy mainly due to its role in the heating sector. Its role in transport is also important, where the development of other renewable resources is still awaited. Biomass is thus the most important domestic source of renewable energy. Although the share of other resources at the expense of biomass is more likely to grow, biomass energy is the backbone of the transformation of energy leaving fossil resources now and here. Experts from the European Bioenergy Europe association have calculated that the sector they represent represents around EUR 60.6 billion in the European Union - a total of 28 - and some 703 200 jobs. Biomass is mostly a domestic European source. Imports into the European Union do not exceed 5% of European consumption, while 78 percent of our fossil fuel consumption is imported. It also contributes to lower greenhouse gas emissions. According to Bioenergy Europe, the bioenergy sector has saved around 7 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union - the twenty-eight was - that is 303 million tonnes of CO2, which represents roughly annual CO2 emissions in Spain. In the Czech Republic, the dominance of biomass is even more pronounced than the European average. This is mainly due to the tradition of burning firewood directly in households, large municipal heating plants and a relatively dense network of biogas stations. When they say "recoverable resources" in the Czech Republic, it means mainly bioenergy, which contributes to renewable energy of 87 percent. [[23.00 hours]] What is the outlook for the future? Biomass energy as a substitute for fossil fuel combustion is one of the key measures for climate change mitigation, provided that it is produced in a sustainable and efficient manner. Bioenergy could, according to available estimates, participate in global energy consumption in 2050 from one tenth to one third. The great advantage of biomass energy is its diversity. It supplies electricity and heating, provides fuel for transport and can use both targeted biomass and waste and by-products from agriculture and industry or households. Biomass energy provides many opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand and to contribute to the development of rural areas, agriculture and sustainable landscape care and natural resources on the other. Today the production of bioenergy reaches 5.7 trillion joules - these are data from 2017 for the EU-28. Bioenergy potential in Europe is estimated at 7.3 trillion joules in 2050. For comparison, today's energy consumption in the European Union is around 68.1 trillion joules. Thus, this potential would represent 10-46 percent of our current energy consumption. The research included the potential of targeted agricultural biomass, residues from agriculture, forest biomass and biodegradable waste. From the above range it is evident that estimating the potential of bioenergy is a difficult task. It includes a number of types of biomass and ways to use it for energy production. It is difficult to predict in what market and political environment the sector will further develop and how sustainable management of biomass resources will be ensured. The potential of bioenergy will also affect continued climate change and the associated changes in collisions, temperature growth, extreme weather patterns and changes in crop yields. Globally, this may not be a big impact, but in certain areas, yes, and so far we have limited capacity to predict these impacts. Developments in sectors such as food, feed, building materials or paper will also be a key factor. There is a serious need to take the risks associated with small advances in efficiency and dramatic increase in demand for biomass in the chemical, construction or food production. This may contribute, in the absence of appropriate instruments, to the increase in greenhouse gas emissions associated with pressure on the use of natural resources and ecosystems that store significant amounts of carbon. This point on supported energy sources, we have been in the last three years - it started in 2019 and actually started mainly with the accession of the new President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, everyone talked about climate change, about Green Deal. And it actually took two years to convince the European Commission about taxonomy, so that we could replace coal with gas. And now everything's different. Now everyone's saying yes that we want to get rid of Russian gas. It would be good for Europe to realize that Green Deal is no longer on the table, that it is not possible now, and we should decide what we want. Do we want to replace coal with gas? Putinův gas? I don't think we do. That is why ladies and gentlemen in the European Commission and in the European Parliament should finally realise that various ideas, and especially in the Czech Republic, that we will end the burning of coal in 2033, or even the new government is talking about 2030, are nonsense, because the replacement of coal is gas and the gas after Russian aggression, of course, has changed. And replacing Russian gas with Norwegian or cathartic or liquefied gas won't be easy. That is why I think that Europe should, first of all, change the MiFID Directive on emission allowances and should rethink the whole Green Deal situation and simply change the Green Deal in terms of what happened after Russia's aggression, and what we see today, what is happening in rising energy prices. I was talking here this morning, the YES movement clearly recommends to the government how to help people, that is, the simplest help is that people don't see the renewables charge on the invoice, that's what we're talking about. That's the 600 billion solar tunnel we inherited on the traditional sides, and that's the VAT. If the government did this, it would help them immediately, not those promises that they don't even know how to make and which are somewhere beyond sight. So hopefully the government that notoriously ignores our recommendations will still think about it and finally think about invoices for the energy of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u111	Thank you, and we have the priority rights logged in here. One of them is and was Mr Michálek first. Another with priority rights is the President Výborný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor. That was really incredible. I have never seen a former Prime Minister here spend so many hours reading from a magazine to comment on a proposal with 1.5 pages and signed by its Members. That hasn't happened here yet. So what we're experiencing here is really obstructive talk. It's exactly what you had on those posters. It's a rumor that causes distrust for politicians, and I think that if we went ahead in a matter of fact, everything that's been discussed at today's meeting could have been canceled, and we could have already discussed an emergency meeting programme that was submitted by the ANO movement. With your procedure, with your obstructions, you've blocked your own points. And I don't know if we're going to continue this way, so we're not going to discuss anything here in the Chamber of Deputies. If, then, that was what you promised the citizens in the election that you were paralyzing the entire parliament for the interests of one single person who has been performing here for many hours to avoid the conflict of interest law, which, among other things, concerns him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u113	Another with priority rights is signed by President Excellent. It's jamming. We can therefore continue the general debate. And next up, Mr. Marek Novák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, support for biomass is very important in light of current events, but I will ask for peace in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u115	I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u116	But not as a single instrument, and it's definitely not saving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u117	Let me ask you one more time, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u118	Of course, we must best diversify energy sources. But current gas and fuel problems only increase what we already know. In recent years there have been many events in the world and in our country that need to be paid attention and do everything for it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u119	I'm going to interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind. If there's anything you can do, it can be done in front of the O.R. Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u120	There have been many events that need to be addressed. Pay attention to them and do everything we can to prevent them, not just by supporting biomass. This is, for example, an event where the European transmission system has experienced the most serious incident in the last 14 years, where the so far undefined event on Friday, 8 January 2021 caused more than an hour when the South-East European system was separated from the rest of the European system. Both separate parts of the system had to cope with a significant performance imbalance. The European Association of Transmission System Operators has informed about the event. As a result of the action of automatic measures, the situation stabilized within a few minutes. In the Czech Republic, there were no exceptional incidents due to the distribution of the system. The reason for the division of the synchronous zone was the cascading spread of the disturbance in Croatia, Serbia and Romania. As a result of this division, up to 50,6 hertz was created in the Balkan part of Europe with an excess of performance in the short term. And here's the question: is our transmission system actually sufficiently dimensioned? Do we need to support other and other sources of energy? For example, leaders of the Japanese industry are demanding a reboot of nuclear reactors. Japan will need nuclear power if it is to meet the government's objective. The same thing we do with us. It's called carbon neutrality. Japan has confirmed its objective of increasing the share of nuclear energy to 20-22 percent by 2030, but the process of restarting nuclear reactors shut down after the Fukushima accident remains slow, as is the expansion of our nuclear power plants. Eighteen operational reactors are at different stages of the nuclear control process, some may be forced to temporarily suspend due to failure to comply with the NRA deadline for the construction of reserve control centres or other equipment required by the new regulations. And here is another question: Do we still need to discuss whether nuclear energy belongs to or is not one of the supported energy sources? Another event, when Poland, our neighbor, imported a record amount of electricity last year. Just two years ago, Poland recorded a record value of net electricity imports of 13.2 terawatt hours, even though electricity consumption decreased by 2.3 percent year on year as a result of the pandemic-related measures. Yet energy imports have increased. Electricity consumption in Poland decreased by 2.3 % last year to 165.5 terawatt hours. The decrease did not reverse the December increase in consumption by 4.3% at all compared to previous years. However, annual consumption growth in November and December showed that the impact of the covid pandemic on electricity consumption in the winter months was not so significant in Poland. Another event in the world's energy market was the laying of the foundations of another Chinese nuclear power plant. Here the survey of the site for the possibility of construction of the power plant began in 2007 and for 13 years this survey lasted. The Chinese National Energy Authority did not allow demonstration work in the site until May 2015. The construction of the first and second units of the power plant itself was approved at the executive meeting last year. This reminds me of the process of expanding our nuclear power plants, which are very important to us, and I would say more important than promoting biomass. The short-term disintegration of the synchronous zone and the fall in frequency did not endanger this time in January 8. 1. 2021 operation of the transmission system of the Czech Republic. Yes, and once again the transmission system of the Czech Republic, because those so-called supported energy sources and those green energy sources, let it be biomass, let it be solar, so today we have quite a major problem to attach to the transmission system. We do. That's right. And we should address not only production but also distribution. And it's crucial, it goes hand in hand, and you must agree with that, fellow Members. As a result of the action of automatic measures, the drop stopped within minutes and the frequency returned to the normal operating zone. There were no extraordinary incidents in the Czech Republic at the time due to the distribution of the system, fortunately, but we were threatened with blackout. And colleagues who engage in energy know what blackout is and what it can do. The reason for the division of the synchronous zone on Friday 8 January was the cascading expansion of the failure in the area of Croatia, Serbia -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u121	I'm gonna interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm gonna ask everyone in the O.R. to keep their voice down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u122	And as a result of this division, it was in the Balkan part of Europe that the frequency of up to 50,6 HZ was short-term. At the same time, there was a lack of power in the rest of continental Europe, including the Czech Republic, and a short-term decrease in frequency by 254 mHZ to 49,74 Hz. By acting on automatic measures, the further decrease stopped and the frequency returned after approximately 10 seconds to the normal operating zone, and at 14.09, i.e. 4 minutes after this threat, the deviation was already reduced to less than 100 mHz. Although the mistake actually occurred in the Balkans, it almost affected our system. And we ourselves had four minutes of trouble dealing with the threat of blackout. In the United Kingdom, after 30 years, the construction of a deep coal mine was allowed. Deep coal mine these days. The UK Government decided not to intervene in the decision of the Cumbria Council, which granted permission to build a deep-sea mine. It's the first such permit in 30 years. At the same time, the government is trying to push the closure of coal-fired power plants without the capture of emissions from October 2025 to October -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u123	Ambassador, allow me to interrupt you. Time's up. We have here one priority enrollment of Mr Excellent, and before that, Mr Member, I would like to ask you to follow Article 59 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 and your contribution to this point, that is to say, renewable resources in this case. Mr Výborný, President Výborný has priority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have been interested in listening to the debate on the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources by Mr Marek Novák, and therefore I am not forged in the field of energy and energy sources, so I have to say, and I have been confirmed by colleagues who have studied the press very closely, confirmed to me by the rapporteur and the representative of the petitioner, President Adamec, that there was not a single sentence involved. And I must say, in that case, I am very concerned about the President's approach, because Article 59 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are quite clear: "The Member shall speak to the present case. If it departs from it or exceeds a specified speaking deadline," this did not happen, "the President may draw the attention of the Member and call him to the point. If a Member turns his speech out of the bounds of decency..." and so on. This means that I have expected, Mr President, that you will bring this to the attention of the Member. I was still willing to respect the fact that Mr Babiš, who spoke with priority law, did not draw attention to this. It was the same in pale blue. However, I do not think that it is possible to manage this arbitrary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will allow myself to take two procedural votes here, to ask for the first procedural vote, which I am asking for to be carried out without delay, and then I will read the second procedural vote. The first is that I object to the proceedings of the meeting. It is not possible for the President not to draw attention, he did so only after ten minutes, Members, for not speaking to the point. You should have brought this to the attention of the Member, possibly to take his word for it. You did not do so, so please vote on the objection to the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a priority right here. [[Screaming from the O.R. It's Vote!]] A procedural proposal may be counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u126	I have a proposal. What will result from such a vote? What will be the result?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u127	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u128	I think this is another example of the fact that, unfortunately, the President is not in good shape and has once again given room to the President, although there should have been a vote on the procedural proposal. There was no counterproposal, and there was no counterproposal. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] So please, let us vote, I think the House's leadership here is sufficiently present and certainly Vice-President Skopeček, for example, is ready to take over the meeting and follow the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u129	Mr President, thank you. We will therefore vote on your procedural proposal. I'll check everyone out. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting 6, 173 entered, for 90, against 81, result accepted. Thank you. I'm interrupting for two minutes and I'll ask the president of the coalition clubs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u130	I'll make it easy for you. Please give us two minutes' break to advise the House's leadership who will continue to manage the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u131	We have a priority right here - Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u132	It's a two-minute break. I'm just giving consideration to whether management should actually meet with club management for a long time and agree on how to proceed. [[Responses in plenary.]] Okay. If the majority's opinion is to replace the governing meeting, I will respect it, but personally I think it would be good for us to talk about it as the House's leadership.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u133	There's one more priority right here? Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u134	I support Vice-President Bartošek's proposal because here you have decided to object to the President's proceedings. And what's that? Did you suggest anything else? This automatically implies - according to which provisions of the Rules of Procedure? According to which one? The vice-president has doubts about it for a five-calice. So let's please accept his proposal and meet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u135	Yes, Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u136	It's not about my doubts. This is about us agreeing as the House's leadership to proceed in a uniform manner in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's what I was calling for. If it were up to me, of course, I would also shorten a number of performances. But it's about making a deal and measuring the same subway for all who run the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u137	Thank you, and I'm declaring a five-minute recess. [[Female voice off microphone: That's not enough.]] And I'd like to ask the club president if they could come over here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with our colleagues, we are extending the break until 23.35. Thank you. [[After a while.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the other members of the House's leadership, we are interrupting until 23.45 and I ask that all the Vice-Presidents of the House meet with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u139	Let us continue the debate, and Vice-President Bartošek has signed up with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. After a brief meeting of the House's leadership, in order to unite, how we will continue to proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have reached this conclusion. As head of the House, we're gonna want the person who's performing to speak to the point. In the event that this is not the case, the management meeting will lead him to discipline in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in the event that he does not respect the admonition of the management meeting, he shall be taken away from the floor. This will be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We met for this reason, so that the House could continue to function and we could act united as the House's leadership. Because it is not about what political party you belong to, but it is about respecting the Rules of Procedure. If you have any doubts as to how the meeting is managed, you may object to the President's procedure and proceed accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. Mr Vondráček, Mr Vondráček, made a factual report. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u142	Thank you. On the development of the debate, Mr President, and I made a point of fact before the priority right of Vice-President Bartošek, so there has actually been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But I didn't protest at all, because sometimes even the violation of the Rules of Procedure is for the benefit of the cause. And I pressed that de facto remark before you met upstairs. I just wanted to say maybe to calm the situation, that I have a feeling that the performers, the number increased after you limited your speaking time to ten minutes. This is the effect that those who have something to say and speak to the point can no longer, because they are limited by some time, so other Members appear because the club has something to say, and this is the side effect. And then it's the little ones on purpose that just increase the nerves in the room. I think it's useless. I'd really like to say that we've had a more intense time here than we are today, and that maybe it's pointless to escalate here. For example, I know that since I've been able to locate myself, we've only limited the speaking time twice in the last parliamentary term. EET and then Dukovan, but after some debate. Here it happened really quite quickly at the point, I remind you, which is to be approved in the '90s. We said we weren't giving vetoes. So why are we doing this kind of thing on purpose now? And I agree that we should... And then I'm going to take one de facto when I hear laughter, because I might as well quote exactly what was said here in the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u143	Mr. Ambassador, time. Thank you. Mr Fiala was first President with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u144	Thank you for the floor. I am impressed, my fellow Members, by what Bartošek said here, through Mr President, that, in fact, if the speaker does not speak to the point, the word will be taken away from him. What I want to ask is, that's a subjective opinion. How do you know if he's talking to talk or not talking to talk? [[cases]] [[cases]] [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] Such a discussion clearly leads to further censorship and further limitation of the debate in the House. As for nothing else, and it's never happened in the last 20 years that it would take place, maybe once it happened when someone here read the phone book. And that I've seen those phone books read here before! But there's talk of energy, things like that. Again, you can take that word subjectively once, then twice, then you can take it all the time, and actually, the opposition will just sit in the corner, shuffle their legs and keep quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u145	Another with priority rights is the President Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am concerned that the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources has sparked great controversy, the need for long speeches. We have watched Mr Babiš's speech here, many others, end up debating how the meeting is or is not managed and whether or not it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the five MPs, I would like to bring a substantive constructive proposal that, in a situation where it is clear that this bill - and now I remind you, this amendment was signed by Members of the Kubíček movement YES, Member of the Fiala Radim SPD and representatives of all coalition MPs. I assumed that there was, in some way, at least an elementary factual consensus on this bill, and there would not be a need for many hours of debate and discussion so heated, when we got to this point at 23.51. Since, unfortunately, the reality is different, the consensus is obviously not here and it would be good for us to show greater efficiency in this meeting, so, under the agreement of the club presidents, I am giving this procedural proposal, which I am asking, Mr Vice-President, to be put to the vote immediately. This first point, the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, please interrupt and let us go to the second point, i.e. the amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance. Maybe we'll be more successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u147	Thank you, so I'll go on. Counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u148	I want to make a counterproposition, and I'm very sorry. I did not understand, Mr President, it is not a stretch. Until when did you suggest? There was a lot of noise. Until when did you suggest we cut the point? So I can make a counterproposal. I didn't understand until you suggested we cut the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u149	Mr. Chairman, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u150	Thank you, Madam President, well, I will come to your attention and interrupt item number 1 in item 3, and we will go to point 2, because we may be more successful there than at point 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u151	Thank you. Is there a counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u152	I'm counter-proposaling, and I suggest we cut point one for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u153	First, we're going to vote on the counterproposal, which means interrupting point 1 for five minutes. I'll check you out. Please sign up. One more time. We are voting on the counterproposal first, and that is interrupting point 1 for five minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Voting number 7, logged in 176, for was 80, against 75. Denied. [[If he's tired, let him take his place. Mr Vice-President, did you say who's against every vote?]] And now we're going to vote on the original proposal, and that's point 1 to put it as point 3. Abort to item 3. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, logged in 176, for 94, versus 80, result accepted. With priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u154	We said we'd cut point one. OK. Let's start with point two, I think that's public health insurance. I am asking, Mr President, or kind government, Prime Minister, who will give the point? Where's your Minister of Health? [[The answer from the O.R., entertainment, applause.]] Yeah, those are the fastest boxes I've ever seen in the government. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Yeah, then I get it. I thought that such an important thing as 14 billion should be presented by the Minister of Health. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] But if the Minister of Finance gives it up, I understand. Copy that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-001-001.u155	Interrupting item number 1 and starting item number
