ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u1	63. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1606/2006. 168/2007 on the establishment of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (ECP 98-E/ - first reading We interrupted this item on 2 March at the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies after the opening words of the Minister for European Affairs, Mikuláš Bek. Minister for European Affairs, Minister Mikuláš Bek, will speak for Prime Minister Petr Fiala, and I will ask him to give this point briefly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me very briefly review the content of my introductory word from a few weeks ago. The submitted request concerns a proposal for a Council regulation which regulates for a large part technically the functioning of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. This prior consent is required in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, as this proposal is adopted on the basis of the so-called flexibility clause. The amendments provide for the functioning of the Agency to be consistent with the current state of European legislation and are intended to contribute to the overall efficiency of the Agency's functioning. The proposal is the result of a long negotiation and compromises the ideas of the European Commission, the Council and the European Parliament, as well as some Member States have long shown restraint, which was eventually overcome by this very compromise. Therefore, I would like to ask you, together with the Senate, which has already given its consent, to join this consensus and to give your preliminary consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u3	Thank you, Minister, and I remind you that the Government has submitted a proposal for the House's prior approval pursuant to Section 109i of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, by his decision of 16 December 2021, ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs and set a deadline for that by 20 January 2022. The Committee has discussed the proposal, adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 87-E/1. I ask the rapporteur, Jaroslav Bžoch, whether he wishes to speak before the debate is opened? [[The Member is not present.]] I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to be patient for a moment. After clarification, I think that we will be able to continue because Mr Jaroslav Bžoch represented the then excused Member Ondřej Benešík, and for this reason I will ask Mr Ondřej Benešík if he wants to speak before the general debate is opened? It's not like that. In that case, I open the debate and ask who is applying for it? I am registering three applications at this point and Mrs Helena Válková will be the first to appear and Mrs Marie Pošarová will be prepared. Please, Madame, and I will ask Mr Benešík to sit at the rapporteur's table. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The Minister has repeated the mechanisms that seem to be at first sight here, and they are actually a little more complex, or they are not so standard, and I feel that this is precisely because we do not pay enough attention to this in the Czech Republic. I was still in the position of Human Rights Commissioner to get this press to the House for discussion. It has failed, and I very much welcome that it has now succeeded. The EU Agency for Fundamental Rights has its seat in Vienna, and from this point of view it is relatively geographically close, and I think that there is much experience that we can draw, and that, especially at the moment, when faced with a large wave of refugees from Ukraine, it is also appropriate to use the knowledge that the Agency has gathered in the meantime. I see it as our very important partner, who can increase knowledge of human rights in a way that is very well understood for our fellow citizens. This is mainly about presenting awareness-raising and improving the perception of fundamental human rights in the Czech Republic as something in particular that we need and what we have, without realizing it, is also reflected in our own actions, behaviour, speeches in crisis situations, and in this very respect I think that the roughly 15-year experience that the Agency has, and which is carrying out most of Europe-wide research, brings different comparisons between states, analyses, what we will hardly have the resources and resources to do. It is often given more confidential information that shows how individual EU countries are doing without any obvious criticism, but it is so indirect because when we see how much attention is being paid in a state - and I will not name - to this issue and how much else, then we must not be surprised by the results of public research. I'll give you an example. One of the breakthrough researches was research into the incidence of domestic sexual violence. This is a question that is now being addressed by our subcommittee on sexual domestic violence by the constitutional-legal committee, which went across the political spectrum in 2014 and showed - I mean, the political spectrum in Europe, or they are objective, representative results - and that is where we did not quite well. In the Czech Republic there was 32 percent, one third of women, some violence, even though it might not have achieved violence that was relevant from the point of view of criminal law. So they experienced violence either at home or somewhere outside of home, in which case sexual. [[11.40 hours]] Research focused on topics such as the sense of safety of women in public space, but also cyber violence. You know, the movie In the Network has attracted great public attention. And these are exactly the things that we can follow up on at a time when we will need specific examples for our fellow citizens to believe that the principle of solidarity is actually fulfilling very well when they take someone for a symbolic amount that the government has approved. And I don't mean it critically now that it's a symbolic amount. It's just when I let someone into my home, it's worth a lot, and that's the principle of solidarity. This is, in fact, the fulfilment of the fundamental human rights that we are bound to, and which a number of citizens will actually do with their gesture without even thinking about it and knowing it. Similarly, since 2009, I have chosen from research those dealing with the situation of various minority groups in Europe. But it may not be such a minority that we devote ourselves to relatively a lot, such as the Romani minority, who waits for their agent according to the Romani strategy by the end of this year, but that can be migrants or religious minorities and others. And I think it's because we don't have this kind of research going on here, and I'm going to believe that it's only because of a lack of material resources, so we should really consider whether we should be involved in a network of agencies dealing with fundamental human rights. Of course, the Agency's newsletters, which have been published in recent years and focused particularly on the covid-19 pandemics, have also followed the situation in individual countries and areas, although this was a very dynamic development, and in this respect I must say that I very much welcomed what we were doing in the pandemic situation, so we inspired ourselves, we knew that they did not forget, even the rights of older people who were isolated not in social facilities, but perhaps at home. So the Agency has given us good suggestions, let alone if we proceed in the direction and mechanism proposed by the Minister here. To sum up, I see that, in recent years, the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights has really experienced major developments and has contributed to a better perception of fundamental human rights among the EU's citizens. This development, unfortunately, I must say, even in less than three years since I was an agent, our fellow citizens have not experienced much in the sense that we have not yet succeeded - and it is the error of politicians including me, of course - to bring the otherwise beautiful philosophical and general importance to specific practical cases. Although most people see human rights as important, even a number of them, for example a third of this research came to our attention in the Czech Republic, they think that some human rights groups in the Czech Republic cannot, even if they want to, benefit from, and that there is therefore some kind of social discrimination. So we are not different in this because, in Europe, about half - in some countries - Evropan perceive equal access to fundamental rights, but they do not think that they themselves have access to them. The other half, on the other hand, doubt it. In this respect, as I say, the results in the Czech Republic roughly correspond to the average. I therefore clearly see, and in this sense, our YES movement, the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights as an institution that is appropriate and necessary. I am glad that, at European level, it has also been achieved, as has already been said by the Minister, that there has been some consensus on the changes that have just paralyzed the development when the Agency's remit has been extended, but in a way that it has not iritated, and some processes of its operation have also been simplified, without those Member States losing the ability to influence the Agency's activities. Therefore, if the House now gives its consent, we can immediately discuss the Agency's work programme with the Member States in the Council's bodies for the next year 2023. I therefore believe that the Government will be involved in this activity, that it will continue to support the Agency's activities, to work with it, as we do, as the House, as the Senate, and that this will also help us to bring about the concept which, as I said a moment ago, is noble, but many of our fellow citizens cannot imagine under it a specific act, or the concept of fundamental human rights, if I am to disregard, of course, the right to assembly and speech, but I am thinking of social rights, especially here in the Czech Republic, our fellow citizens. And that's why I'm interrogating myself for giving my consent to the proposed press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u5	Thank you, Madame. As of 11.15, Mr. Róbert Teleky cancels his note from today. Now, Mrs Marie Pošarová, who has been duly applied for, will appear, and Mr Vladimír Zlínský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u6	Thank you for the floor. honourable Members, I would like to comment on the Agency for Fundamental Rights. The Agency for Fundamental Rights was established before the so-called Treaty of Lisbon, which is why the European Commission is seeking an amendment that will respond to this fundamental change in the law of the European Union. In any case, it must be said that this is one of the main vocal trumpets of LGBT propaganda spreading within the European Union, and it is still the same story. The last government went through the material unnoticed. The House Committee for the European Union proposes to approve the material. I'm sure the House will approve it today. This shows the absolute inability of the Member States of the Union to at least elementaryly manage them. In order to approve the new regulation, unanimity is needed in the vote in the Council. We can hit the table and demand substantial changes, and that we need them, but that would not be allowed to operate the process of adopting European legislation according to current rules. No one knows anything about the existence of the Agency, which has a shortcut to the FRA, the Agency's declines, let alone the real influence of this institution from Czech political representatives. That is why the material goes without a problem to the government, where it usually passes without debate. The absolute majority of officials are not going to look for problems where their political representation is not looking for them. This material will, of course, travel unnoticed to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, where no one will notice anything again. And even if Members and Senators wanted to rebel, they are concerned about the reputation of the Czech Republic, so they prefer to remain silent and vote everything. After all, if it's from the European Union, it won't resist, no one wants to be a troublemaker. We would be in front of our foreign colleagues and the European Commission for fools, but the material has been involved for a long time. After all this time the Czech representative did not even call, and suddenly the Čech will block it? [[11.50 hours]] The proposal is wrong in at least one thing - the effectiveness, quality and impact of the Agency's activities are to be evaluated once every five years. Once every ten years, the Agency itself's Management Board shall express its opinion on this evaluation, which shall draw up recommendations addressed to the European Commission. This is unsurprisingly recommended by the Commission to intensify, strengthen or expand activities, and this will undoubtedly be supported by the Commission and the whole story will start again. But why shouldn't Member States evaluate the Agency's activities directly? He claims there would be a threat to independence, and I ask what, because independence, of course, is only supposed to be. The functioning of the Agency is linked to a budget that is dependent on the will of the European Commission and the European Parliament, which means one thing - the Contracting States are pulling for the shortest end here thanks to their set-up processes. The direction is clear - to greater federalization. The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights shall collect, record, analyse and disseminate important objective, reliable and comparable information and data, carry out or support scientific research and investigations. But that is not what the current Agency is capable of fulfilling. Just open a summary survey of OLGBT people whose literal translation name There is still a long way to go to equality with LGBT, which raises doubts about scientific and objective information in the material itself. What is content, for example? Let's take a look at the chosen methodology. The authors themselves reported that the survey of LGBTI persons was not representative. The complete survey is based on a sample of 139 799 respondents from the European Union and North Macedonia and Serbia. They replied through an electronic online questionnaire with closed questions stating that, in order to protect anonymity and confidentiality of respondents, the survey was not carried out personally or at least by telephone. The survey questionnaire was also distributed through European and national LGBTI organisations that helped to expand, which does not help the relevance of the results. In other words, someone like the organization We are fair sent a questionnaire to their supporters about the situation of LGBT in the Czech Republic. How do you think these activists filled it out? And now, let's say what the survey has brought - it has brought somewhat surprising findings, for example, that, according to the survey, the category of trans-persons in the whole LGBTI community is most widely represented in Finland. That's most likely not true to reality. Similarly, the response of respondents shows that there are significantly more gays in the European Union than lesbians in the population, which can also be doubted. However, the survey serves as a basis for the European Commission's policy objectives. Directly in the material The European Commission's Equality Strategy on LGBTIQ to people 2020-2025 refers to the survey several times. Let me give you an example. The European Commission's survey data show the need to regulate hate speech more strictly and to provide greater help to LGBTI people who are a vulnerable group exposed to hate attacks. The current practice of the European Commission, the FRA and their activist struggle for more LGBTIQ rights actually tramples the rights of LGBT people at national level. These ideological holy wars are just unnecessarily fueling negative emotions toward these people in such tolerant societies as the Member States of the European Union. brát that the tolerance threshold is different in the Member States, but this coercive federal campaign will certainly not bring more tolerance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u7	I thank you, Madame, and now Mr Vladimír Zlínský will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u8	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to speak as a member of the Committee on European Affairs under the SPD on a proposal tabled by this committee to give its prior consent to the proposal for the establishment of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. I voted against the proposal for a vote on the floor of the Committee on European Affairs, as I do not agree with any multinational agency, although without executive powers, collecting unilaterally information on respect for human rights in the Czech Republic. I particularly reject the extension of the Agency's competence to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. Even if the Agency does not decide on anything and does not have any enforcement powers, the collection of information is the basis for analytical and synthetic activities which form the basis for the European Commission's decision-making and legislative powers, which are determined by this information. The Agency is to monitor compliance with these rights, and I quote from the introduction of the regulation: "Point 10. Given that the Agency is to build on the existing European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia, the Agency's activities should continue to concern phenomena such as racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, protection of the rights of minority members, as well as equality between women and men, which are essential elements of the protection of fundamental rights." End of quote. I fear that the unilaterality of information will be guaranteed by the person responsible for the collection of information. I quote, "Point 19." - once again from the introduction of the regulation - 'Since the important role of civil society in the field of the protection of fundamental rights is recognised, the Agency should promote dialogue with civil society and cooperate closely with NGOs and with civil society organisations and bodies active in the field of fundamental rights. It should establish a cooperation network called the Fundamental Rights Platform to establish structured and fruitful dialogue and close cooperation with all relevant stakeholders.' End of quote. I assume that politicised progressive non-profit organisations will form the backbone of the above-mentioned platform, thereby guaranteeing the proper information of the European Commission. This progressive concept of human rights, from our point of view, leads to the destruction of fundamental values which form the basis of our current civilization, such as nation, family and marriage, to prioritizing the rights of minorities of ethnic and sexual at the expense of the majority population. For these reasons, I'm filing a motion for rejection at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u9	Thank you, and I'm registering your motion to dismiss this press. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for this debate? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u10	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I understand that they do not like this Agency, I respect that they have a different perspective on some things, but I would only allow myself to do a few minor repairs. If Mrs Pošarová is here to evaluate the methodology, she certainly knows that a case study cannot draw general conclusions, through Mr President, but I have a bit of a problem with whether we understand well what the Agency is meant to do. If it is to provide the European Commission and the Member States with some feedback on how human rights are respected, then it seems quite logical to me that they are asking the very civil society how it feels, and that is why it has no executive powers. On the contrary, it seems to me that the system is set as it should be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u11	Thank you. The rapporteur is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'm the last one here to defend the Fundamental Rights Agency. Anyway, we're not setting up the agency or disturbing it. We merely adjust its technical parameters so that it corresponds to the functioning after the broken pillar structure of the EU's functioning. I have an understanding of the many arguments that have been made here, but we are not really talking about content today, but we are talking about form. The agency's just gonna keep working, even if we don't give the prior consent today, we're not gonna cancel it, we're not gonna set it up. Please, let's keep this in mind. And I, as the rapporteur for this press on the committee, have told all the members this because I have dealt with this in real detail. And as much as I can have reservations about this agency's output, and I'm not going to comment on that, there's one more thing I'd like to say that might give somebody some courage. The Czech Republic is the last country, a Member State of the EU which does not agree or, respectively, has not expressed itself in favour of its operation. Working, not content, but the operation, simply the practical purpose of its activities. And a country like Hungary with Prime Minister Orbán and Poland with Prime Minister Morawiecký has long since expressed that approval. We really are the last ones. So please, I understand that some of us here, including myself, have reservations about the content, about exactly what the Agency brings, even if it is not enforceable, even if it is not legally binding, it is recommendations, but we are simply talking about the mechanism of operation, so that the mechanism of operation is in line with the Treaty of Lisbon, which, among other things, was adopted at the time of the Presidency of the Czech Republic, and I think that the Czech Republic has brought a whole series of very positive changes and positive aspects into this process. So I understand that, yes, we may have reservations about the specific functioning and content of the reports that this Agency supplies, and I repeat, I can have them too, but we are talking about the mechanism of operation, not the content. On the contrary, at least as I understand it, the Member States, including the Czech Republic, including Hungary, including Poland, including Finland, and including - I do not know - Portugal, will have a greater influence, will have a much greater influence on the functioning of this Agency and will have a greater say in how the content is formed. And that is one of the reasons why I support this change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u13	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Mr Jiří Kobza will appear and Mrs Helena Válková will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, by your means, to address my colleague Benešík with one question, because, as has been said several times, we are talking about how it will work, and because after four years in the European Committee on the functioning of European institutions, I do have some familiarity, so I would like to ask one basic question, and that is whether the conclusions of this committee or council, which will not have its own authority, will be enforceable through another EU institution, as we have seen many times. So I think this is just the devil's kick, that these conclusions can actually be applied in some other trial, some other court, some other organ, and it'll come back to us. So I think our reservation to create this agency - at any stage it is now, at this point - is fully justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u15	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u16	It raised me a little bit, the speech as well, but from a completely different point of view, Mr Benešík, by your means, Mr Vice-President, because there was a question about the content that I think was quite clear about here, and which, of course, is not an executive character and is not enforceable, which will certainly be said here by Mr Benešík, by your means, but has an educational informative value. And it was in the pandemic crisis that some of these researches were very good, giving us stimuli, impulses, so I wouldn't drop it. Well, then I'll be even sharper. I just don't understand why, at the moment, when refugees and fundamental human rights may seem to be at risk, or it also shows from these analyses that it is not only refugees, but it may also be Czech citizens who may feel compelled to do something, that they are being taken away by some freedom, and in this situation, we do not yet have my successor or successor, an agent of the government for human rights, who could deal with these issues as I do, every day, or even every night when a pandemic was present. So, Mr. Benešík, thank you for calling this discussion. I had no idea the Fundamental Rights Agency would have these connotations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u17	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u18	Thank you, Madame Válková, for her performance. Unfortunately, I had a feeling. We are making a topic that is technical, a big policy. And I understand, I really understand the concerns of some colleagues who are already as conservative as I am, that they have these concerns, that is justified. But what I want to say here is that I am not going to fit in here with a role that knows everything about the European Union and every institution, the agency that the European Union has, I have the most important information. But I did study this agenda, I was the rapporteur for this material. On the one hand, I understand the concern, on the other hand, I also understand that this raises the political debate that is appropriate, but let us really try to be pragmatic in this regard and let us look at this from a technical point of view, because it really is a technical point of view. From my point of view, I understand these complaints, but we're not voting on those complaints right now, we're really voting on the technical functioning. And maybe I'll be attacked somewhere in some media for that, being taken for a word that maybe it's not exactly that. I would like to respond to my honored colleague Jiří Kobza that my knowledge of the matter is really a technical matter. This agency has no executive powers, as Mrs Válková said. In fact, its decisions, or its decisions - its findings or the materials it distributes, are merely a recommendation to individual Member States. Again, Hungary and Poland, which I think are very conservative in this regard - at least their current governments - have already expressed their preliminary consent. The Czech Republic is the last. Let's just take it that way. I may be in the totally unwanted role of some supporter of this press right now, but I look at it simply pragmatically, I look at it the way that the Czech Republic is the last one, and the Czech Republic is actually preventing the opening of a more detailed debate, which I believe must follow with regard to the Agency's content. [[12.10 hours]] The Agency exists, the Agency will just continue to exist, and we may now have the opportunity to open up a discussion on how it will work and what it will be dealing with. I repeat, I agree with many things that have been said here again, and of course I do not agree with many. But please, we're just talking about functioning, not content.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u19	Thank you, rapporteur. I don't see anyone else enrolled in the debate. If that is the case, I will end the debate. I ask the Minister if he wants the final word? [[Yes.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I recognise, of course, that the concept of human rights is a legitimate subject of political debate, which generally does not lead to an agreement between everyone and everyone. I just think that we have a number of opportunities to have such a debate in forums, whether the European Parliament or national parliaments, when discussing a number of legal proposals or legal regulations. In this case, I am joining the vote of the rapporteur. This is primarily a technical aspect of the matter. I appreciate and thank all those who were prepared to support this proposal, which certainly does not restrict the substantive value debate, which, once again, I say is legitimate, but we have a whole range of more appropriate opportunities for it. I would appeal to you to complete the hearing process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u21	Thank you. The rapporteur doesn't want the final word? [[No.]] Okay. We will now follow the proposals made. The first is that there was a motion for rejection in the debate. I'll call my coworker and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering the check-out request, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all and ask you to sign up with your cards again. We will vote on who agrees with the proposal to reject this prior consent. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for rejection? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 54; 144 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 20, against 16. This proposal has not been agreed with. We will therefore now vote on the motion for a resolution. I will read it: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has previously agreed with the proposal for a Council regulation amending Council Regulation No. 168/2007 on the establishment of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, House Press 98-E/0.' I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 55, registered 146 Members and Members, for proposal 125, against 18. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing this point and handing over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-010-063.u22	I wish you all a nice noon and allow me to continue to manage the meeting, the next point which is the point
