ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 /German press 284/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Josef Bernard, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Parliaments of the Press 284/2, which was delivered on 29 September 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 284/3. Do I now ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Yes, he does. So please, Minister, you have the floor. And before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. He apologizes to Róbert Teleky within 16 hours for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u2	Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. A really brief introduction, because this material arrived at the third reading, so let me just remind you of the main reasons for presenting this material. These are the effects of the ongoing war conflict in Ukraine, the consequences of which were not known at the time of the preparation and presentation of the state budget for 2022 to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, to interrupt. Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down, or move your conversations to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u4	Another reason, of course, is the increase in living costs, which is linked to both high inflation and high energy prices. Response to the energy crisis, including the provision of strategic resources. Here I'll just remind you of the purchase of gas into the state's material reserves. This amendment also includes an adjustment to the revenue page resulting from the current cash flow and a qualified estimate of the state budget's revenue by the end of this year. The revenue is increased by CZK 65 billion. I am not going to repeat the procreating to individual items here, which I said at first and second reading, just to point out that the total increase in expenditure is CZK 115 billion; tops to social, social expenditure 29 billion, the increase in expenditure that is still related to the effects of the covid-19 pandemic of 4.4 billion, the strengthening of the energy crisis area, that is a total of 30 billion, including the austerity tariff, the increase in expenditure related to the war crisis of 23 billion, the spending title to support regional development, especially in the housing sector of 2.8 billion. Then, unfortunately, an increase in government debt service by 4 billion, a purchase of vehicles for police in the amount of 900 million, a debt settlement in the field of film incentives of CZK 570 million, and a new allocation to the government's budgetary reserve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister, and I am now opening up a debate to which President Tomio Okamura has entered with priority rights, and President Radim Fiala will prepare himself, also with priority rights. And before I give the Prime Minister the floor, I'll read the apology. Vít Kaňkovský apologizes until 15.30 - personal reasons and Michal Šalomoun until 16 for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the full comment on your draft budget, supplemented by other amendments, can be summarised in one sentence: you promised to be budgetaryly responsible, and the deed escaped. Like the governments of the past, you stick to the slogan "it suits us when people lend us loans." After years of criticism of government budgets and budget deficits, after years of bravado and promise, as you would save and manage effectively, you achieved a record in the debt of the Czech Republic in its history in the first year of your government. Before the elections, the Fialův government falsely promised citizens budgetary responsibility, but in fact wants to indebt the Czech Republic by more than CZK 1 trillion. Looking at these amendments, we are clearly saying that the amendments, including from the Government Members - there are two of them, will only support such amendments - so the SPD will support them. It will support all the amendments to help our citizens with a price increase. But at the same time, we say in one breath, even B, that it can be done without so much debt. The Fialův Government, as I said, so you promised falsely to citizens budgetary responsibility before the elections, but when we look at the budgetary perspective, you want to indebt the Republic for the duration of your reign, if it's four years, about CZK 1.2 trillion, maybe even more, even though Petr Fiala's government from the ODS has high prices of energy, fuel and food, and other goods and services year-on-year about 127 billion higher tax revenues. The initial budget deficit you proposed for this year was minus CZK 280 billion. First, Petr Fiala's government proposed an increase to CZK 330 billion, and then, when discussing this Act on the State Budget for this year a few days ago here in the House, in the form of an amendment, you suddenly require an increase in the debt by another 45 billion. So the total government of Petr Fiala from ODS will owe the Czech Republic CZK 375 billion - almost half a trillion - in short. This is completely unprecedented and unacceptable, as well as the draft budget deficit of CZK 295 billion for 2023 plus. We say that the government is budgetaryly irresponsible. Government budget deficits need to be reduced by increasing revenue and reducing unnecessary expenditure. That's not exactly what Petr Fiala's government is doing. You waste money on nonsense, and then, of course, there is nothing left to do, that is to help Czech citizens. Members of the SPD movement, once again I stress, we will vote in favour of all the amendments that bring people some financial assistance that they should receive in connection with the problems that Petr Fiala's government has thrown us into. But we will vote against the government budget as such for this year, because we do not agree with the state budget structure, where you, on the one hand, do not make savings where the savings are possible, on those unnecessary expenditures that do not bring anything to the citizens, and, at the same time, you have inadequately indebted all citizens of the Czech Republic. That means, I say again, helping citizens does, but the structure of the budget doesn't, because I can already see some exponents of the government coalition lying in the media that the SPD might not want to support people here. That's not true at all. Those who have put the Czech Republic in trouble are your government, and we are trying to straighten it out here in some way by partial amendments, what you're doing here. Well, what the deficit is going to be like, none of you really know, because both government MPs and even ministers have come up with other demands. It is certain that the total expenditure of the state budget, according to the original government proposal, should have exceeded CZK 2 trillion. The ODS government of Petr Fiala has a really big chaos in the proposal. Some items do not comply with the law, and some experts believe that the real deficit will be up to CZK 440 billion. From this point of view, it is basically unnecessary to operate with numbers, because under the Fialův Government, the real deficit cannot be estimated in many respects, because the government of Petr Fiala and the Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjur from the ODS completely lacks any concept and plan, and therefore no one knows whether, in view of price developments, the government will somehow move with VAT or excise taxes. Due to the unpreparedness and amateurism of the Fialův Government, no one in the government knows how much the crisis has hit and hit Czech companies and how much it will affect the state's employment and spending. But this is also a gigantic mistake for this government, because it has no clear, predictable concept of addressing the current energy crisis and inflation. In fact, she relied on a very socialist solution, in which she is trying to help in some way cosmetically by squandering some completely inadequate money across the board without addressing the very causes of the cost, i.e. the rise in energy prices. The government's steps are unpredictable and from wall to wall. Prime Minister Petr Fiala has been screaming for months that our opposition proposal to stop electricity prices is not possible, but then from one day to the next, he turned 180 degrees and put the price down. But so senseless and inadequate that it doesn't practically help people and businesses, and energy prices continue to be devastating for citizens, but it will bring more enormous spending to the state. [[The speaker turns to the standing Member.]] Otherwise, I'm having a bit of a hard time talking here, colleague, when you're three feet away from me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u7	Yes. I will ask Mr Kučera to give peace to President Okamur so that he can make his contribution. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. All I'm saying is, of course, nothing new. We are even in an incredible situation where the government makes such tragic mistakes that even members of the government criticize it. [[14.20 hours]] For example, ex-minister of finance and founder of the government coalition TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek said that Petr Fiala's government is the least budgetaryly responsible government and that it is politically cowardly. That's what your coalition colleague says about you, a member of the government's TOP 09! Mr Kalousek also mentioned that 900 billion spending is not related to the crisis or to the war. So even your coalition colleagues, your ex-minister of finance from your government coalition party, are already saying that you are politically cowardly and that you are the least budget responsible. So, of course, even your most famous exponents are already criticizing you because they can't watch it anymore. Yes, as with previous governments, he was a cloak for enormous expenses, so today he became the enchanting of Ministers Putin. But the truth is, because of Fialův's incompetent government, we're buying overpriced energy through speculators on the lip stock market. The truth is, because of the current Czech governments, our gas trade in German RWE has been sold. And the truth is that the main reason that triggered the energy crisis is the Green Deal EU, which you all support here except for the SPD. This was the imaginary pebble that then triggered the inflationary avalanche. To have an efficient economy and cheap production, you have to have cheap energy. If, on the one hand, someone starts removing power plants at the current rapid pace and on the other, plans to convert all mobility into electric cars, it is a case for a psychiatrist and at the same time starts to raise energy prices immediately. On behalf of the SPD, I would like to stress that the SPD is promoting environmental protection, but we are promoting reasonable environmental protection. This means, not on the basis of dates and dates determined centrally from Brussels, but on the basis of the real possibilities and needs of the Czech Republic, i.e. individual EU Member States. And that's exactly what's causing the problem here. And if we add to that the rejection of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and the transfer to super expensive LNG from tankers that Američan are selling us many times the cost of doing so on their own American market, and they are deliberately earning for the European crisis, then we clearly have a problem on our hands. Here I would also recall the French Minister's statement, a few days old statement by the French Minister of Finance and Economics, they have it in one person, who has just pointed out that the one you loved Washington, where you are always so fucking driving and bowing down to them in Washington, so he sells Europe, which is in crisis - that's what your allies are all of them - so they sell the compressed gas, the liquefied gas, for four times as high in Europe as they sell on their own American market. So again, the same scenario is that, of course, Američan are making money from the crisis in Europe. And you make us completely useful idiots. That means, as you can see, this alliance clearly doesn't work. Again, the SPD is neither pro-Russian nor pro-American, nor for Brussels, nor for Chinese, but it is simply necessary to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic and the Czech citizen must come first. And this stupid servility that your government is showing, we're all paying hard attention to it now. We're not supposed to be servile to anyone. No one. We are supposed to defend our interests here in Central Europe, the Czech Republic and so on. This means, for example, the V four, this is our space where we have similar interests, and so on. That means, that's the reality of the compressed gas now. That's the reality. And I remember Prime Minister Petr Fiala here saying how the compressed gas, what the solution would be. And now we see that this is really a solution that brings about the solution that Petr Fiala and Petr Fiala's government offer, as they are making a lot of money on us right now, how they're beating us up pretty good. And it's interesting that you're not gonna talk America into it, since you all go there so often. The result is not only record, astronomical profits of Gazprom, but also other energetic companies, including Czech ČEZ. And the profits are just speculation from an artificial overpriced energy. The costs of electricity generation or gas extraction have not changed significantly. The Czech government also parasites this crisis. Of course, it also has record revenue from taxes and will also be record profit from ČEZ. That's the money you took out of the pockets of companies and citizens. As a result, today the government can spend a record. But increased income is not enough for you, Petr Fiala's government, and you still have to borrow record revenue. That's the crazy attitude of Petr Fiala's government. If there are laws applicable to everyone in this country, the entire government must arrest an economic criminal case for violating its obligations in the management of foreign property and fraud for drawing up such a state budget. That you promised something other than what you're doing, and that's how you manage public money. Of course, the SPD cannot vote for such a bad and sloppy budget. But we want to be constructive, and that is why our members of the SPD have tabled many amendments, 14 overall, which, while not being able to save such a bad government budget, need indeed a huge structural overall change, but we could raise some billions for our citizens and also make better use of them. We propose a reduction in the contributions to the European Union budget by CZK 30 billion and the relocation of these funds for combating inflation and rising energy prices. The author of this proposal is SPD Member Jan Hrnčíř. We also propose, specifically, that our Members Jiří Kobza and Oldřich Černý propose to withdraw more than one billion crowns from the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely from the item contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad. This is what we propose to withdraw the amount of one billion there, because it is an item that is enormously and unjustly high in the current situation. Moreover, the Supreme Audit Office stated years ago that much of this money was spent on organizations where we are no longer active or otherwise, and called on the Ministry to remedy which had not yet taken place. We propose to help our socially weak and disabled citizens and increase the targeted aid for money that we are taking to the European Union through the Ministry of Social Affairs. As Ms Lucie Šafránková rightly points out in her explanatory report, it is undoubtedly right to cut back on Brusel' money, which is a direct harm to us with its decisions and guidelines, and to use the money that Brusel is throwing away to help Czech citizens who are begging Brusel. And we have tabled many other amendments that we will be voting on today, and these are SPD proposals to help and support our citizens and companies. So I would perhaps mention here that another amendment was tabled, for example, by our Member Vladimír Zlínský. It also reduces the contributions to the European Union budget by 5 billion. And that's what we want to move on to dealing with crisis situations, especially in the energy sector. So we are even giving more opportunities in this regard to government parties, both our MP Hrnčíř and our MP Kobza and others, so that you have the opportunity to reconsider. Because I am asking the rhetorical question here: what is the use of membership of the European Union now for citizens when they are not able to afford expensive energy because of the European Union? Because of the Green Deal of the EU, which basically... has been shut down by power plants, and now it has been discovered that we do not have electricity in the crisis, or that Europe has little of it. Well, that's a really extremely stupid project. That's completely unbelievable. I'd be curious to know which one of those politicians who enforces it would behave like that at home in their own home. None of you would do that. Like, of course, he wouldn't want to endanger his family. Furthermore, of course, we have other proposals where we want to move money from the very pointless government spending. For example, we want to increase the salaries of non-teaching workers. We also want to help, for example, increase investment in housing loans for working families. That is what our Mrs Marie Pošarová is proposing here to reduce by a billion crowns the subsidy on renewable energy sources, and let us move it to help housing working families. Your government has completely destroyed this place. She destroyed this area. Because the building bill you promised you'd design a new one, so the deed ran away at all. [[14.30 hours]] It's just that everyone here is getting into trouble because of you. Prices of rental housing in Prague also increased sharply, because because of your completely uncontrolled migration from Ukraine, rents in Prague and Czech young people increased, and even more do not have the money to rent an apartment in Prague, because it has become more expensive because you are doing everything halabala, absolutely without a plan, just like that, activistly. Otherwise, the increase in the salaries of non-teaching workers, that's what we're proposing here, the transfer of money, our MP Zdeněk Kettner, so I don't forget to mention. For example, our Member, Iveta Štefanová, proposes strengthening money for health care. As I have already spoken, for example, Mrs Lucie Šafránková also proposes to reduce money to the budget of the European Union and to move the money to help and support people with disabilities and to the salaries of employees in the social sphere. Furthermore, for example, Vladimira Lesenská, our MP, also proposes to support the salaries of prison workers because they are undervalued for a long time, and as we know, there are personnel problems, because those salaries are so low, and yet there are a lot of criminals here, so we are proposing to help these people financially in this area. Not the criminals, but the prison workers. Furthermore, here we have our Member Radek Koten of the SPD, who proposes instead of your senseless spending on everything possible to strengthen money to protect the eastern border of the Czech Republic from illegal migration. Because what you're doing here, Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, who is now even in cooperation with the Prague City Council, where Pirate Mayor Hřib still rules in the coalition with STAN, that's how they do the organized crime, and with TOP 09 and the people, so now even your government has begun to lure migrants, illegal Islamic migrants into the Czech Republic, by even offering them free accommodation, food and health care. Which I find absolutely unbelievable is what you already dare to do. So this is where the accommodation facility at Prague Central Station was built. Where basically you simply offer illegal migrants a full service free of charge in the Czech Republic at the expense of money for Czech citizens. So instead of doing a policy that discourages illegal migrants from coming to the Czech Republic, the government of Petr Fiala is openly luring those migrants into the Czech Republic. And by the way, the workers from the nonprofit organization Hlavák behind the main railway station, who therefore support the migration. Now they confessed in an interview for the media that previously those illegal migrants from Syria and other African and Muslim countries came to the territory of the Czech Republic with some luggage. Yes, they often go to Germany, but we don't want any illegal migrants here, and now they're walking without their luggage, they're coming lightly, I quote that, because they know that Petr Fiala's government will take care of them. They're going to a hotel. Free food, free accommodation and free health care from the government of Petr Fiala, here in Prague, hostel near the Main Railway Station. And now, according to the testimony, the mainstream even wrote about it, so they come out of that hostel in the morning pampered, extricated, after medical care possible, and they go out for a walk around Prague and they're supposed to blend in immediately with the crowd, and they even write in those articles - so how would they not blend in with the crowd when they're out of luggage? Because they're going light, they're going on a tour that the Petr Fiala government is paying for. It's absolutely incredible what you're doing here. In quotes for a tour. Well, you're explaining that they're probably planning on going somewhere to Germany. But we don't want any illegal migrants here. Why are you breaking the law here? After all, this is directly in the Criminal Code - promoting illegal migration. That's the section in the Penal Code. There's no law for you? So instead of being clear at the level of the leadership of the European Union, it would not be allowed to lead completely incompetent Prime Minister Petr Fiala, servile, so instead of saying enough, the EU's migration policy is wrong, the very EU's migration policy is the attraction for the migrants... Because the same problems in Japan, for example, do not exist, even in Australia, because where there is no supply, there is no logical demand. Where there is no offer of social support for illegal migrants, so logically neither does anyone come, because even the smugglers have nothing to offer. So you're directly accomplices to this system, your government supports it, you keep quiet about it. Not only are you silent, you support it directly. That's what I just said here. So you're luring these illegal migrants to come to Prague, and you're still paying for it. They have the mobile phones, so they have already informed each other - in the Czech Republic lightly. Even from the nonprofit, they say they already drive without the plastic, even where they had some things. They no longer need it, here the Czech Republic will take care of them. But with the money of Czech citizens, that's the problem. You spend money of Czech citizens completely against the will of at least the voters of the SPD. That is why Mr Radek Koten here is proposing very well that, at least in the light of our little possibilities, because we are the opposition party, we strengthen the border control. But you want to give the same money to them on their accommodations, on their diets and on their health care. This is unbelievable! You directly support illegal migration from Islamic countries to the Czech Republic. And we just don't agree with that. Then we have, for example, an amendment tabled by our Member, Karel Sládeček, a member of the SPD, where we reduce the amount of inclusion by CZK 4 billion, which is basically the majority of the amount, and we redirect the 4 billion to special education. This is our long-term proposal, of course, because we encourage disabled children to have the best care possible. And that special education that the whole world admired and we've worked it out, so it would be good to strengthen it so those kids have the best access to that adult life. And not inclusion in education, which, on the contrary, reduces or worsens the care of those disabled children and, of course, also makes quality worse for those children who need talented. [[unintelligible]] So it's getting worse on both sides, complaining both parents and teachers, complaining like the parents of those disabled children, complaining about the parents of the healthy children. It is simply an experiment of the European Union, which was introduced here by the government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD and the KDU of the ČSL during the previous parliamentary term. So these are our amendments that we have prepared here for this budget. Of course, I say again that the budget would deserve a complete revision, but we as opposition have no real options for that, we all know that. The Ministry of Finance has these options, and this, of course, holds in the hands of the government coalition of Petr Fiala. Well, I'm sure he won't accept any changes for the better of Fialův's five-caliber government. He won't. You're gonna run us over again. You will overwhelm us and owe the Czech Republic another 375 billion crowns this year. Record debt. And in that budgetary perspective, you want to owe the Czech Republic an even 1.2 trillion crowns. Why am I repeating this here? Because that kind of debt can cause a collapse. Economic collapse of the Czech Republic. Budget collapse. It can make the availability of healthcare for citizens further worse. You guys made it worse once when you took 14 billion crowns of health care. [[14.40 hours]] And now you want to take more money from the general health insurance company. You want to take more money because you've been misbehaved, you've been misbehaved by other insurance companies. At the same time, the General Health Insurance Company has a database and takes care of the most difficult patients that other insurance companies do not want to take. It's those patients with the most expensive treatment, so logically she needs to have money, but you want to take money from another general health insurance company again, and you want to deprive her of the possibility of insurance for foreigners, the monopoly of insurance for foreigners who have a residence permit. So from you, it's really going from ten to five, you're always being misbehaved, and you're going to take away our citizens' money. If you, members of the government's five-calice, wanted to help people, you really had almost a whole year of government to do it, and so far we've seen the opposite. The SPD movement therefore refuses to support this budget of yours as a whole. Once again, we will support the amendments that are aimed at - even those proposed by them - are here for two members of the government coalition, the ones that you have quickly planted under opposition pressure, and we will, of course, support them. But at the same time, in order to get you back here - because I'm gonna do it again, I'm hearing the lies from the members of the government coalition that the SPD didn't support the budget as a whole where you want to owe 375 billion, and that we don't want to help people. It's not true. Support our amendments and there will be enough money to help people. So, at the same time, if you support our amendments, people will get more money to help than they get from you, because they get almost nothing from you. So to say B, at the same time support our proposals, and if you support all of our amendments here, then we can vote in favour of the budget, then we can consider it for the budget as a whole. So I'm just saying this because I know the demagogy, and I know the twisting of information by some of the members of the government coalition. Of course, we also reject your rule as a whole, which day after day is more and more... which is that day after day you harm your own country more and more. And given the support we already see on the basis of the surveys, your governance is losing its natural legitimacy. So the only right solution would be if your entire government left and stopped destroying this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. And now, in agreement with President Radim Fiala, President Alena Schillerová will speak, and then President Radim Fiala will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are discussing an amendment to the budget for 2022, and I have to start again by reminding you of CZK 1,200 billion. This is supposed to be an unprecedented result of the debt volume of the current five-calice government during its reign. The result of the government, which had its entire election campaign based on how we were budgetaryly irresponsible during the health crisis, I mean our government. Today, when he has a real chance to show what they meant by fiscal consolidation, they present a budget with zero effort to make any savings. On the contrary, for the first time in the history of the Czech Republic, the government's spending exceeds CZK 2 trillion, and I am no longer talking about planning an increase of more than 10 percent for the next year. The CZK 1,200 billion, as I see it, may not be the final figure, but 330 billion is still the deficit planned by this amendment for 2022, but again I remind you that we cannot forget the parliamentary proposals from the members of the government coalition of 45 billion, which I will gradually get to. So the total number is going to be 375 billion, because I assume that the government coalition will support the parliamentary proposals from its own workshop. For 2023, just very briefly, because it is not the subject of today's negotiations, the government of Petr Fiala has prepared for us the Baťovský 295 billion deficit, but again we must add 100 billion crowns in the form of a legislatively unapproved windfall tax income, or so-called extraordinary profits tax, but even worse is the planned 50 billion for 2023 of the Modernization Fund, which not only lacks national legislation but also the European Commission's approval, the European Investment Bank. Moreover, this money is expected by the State Environmental Fund, where this government has already approved the budget for 2023 for it. All of this is highlighted by the National Budget Board and, as we could read yesterday in public space, by the Committee on Budget Forecasts. But let's leave the year 2023 and focus on 2022. Let me remind you that for 2024 this government is planning a deficit of 280 billion and 260 billion for 2025, which I do not think anyone can believe anymore. There. However, in order not to start completely negatively in the year 2022, I appreciate at least the fact that this amendment to the state budget for 2022 is in line with Czech legislation. While you would expect it to be automatic and that my commendation is completely unnecessary, we now know that the five-calice has shifted the bar so low that one must also appreciate these things that we have taken for granted in the past. Already the beginning, the very beginning of the reign of this five-calice was associated with extraordinary and apparently completely unnecessary chaos. The historically longest budget interim that this government has thrown us into has not really brought anything positive, not for citizens, not for public institutions, not for companies, and has not brought about much proclaimed budgetary consolidation. The budgetary provisional was caused only by chaos in public institutions, which did not know what funds they could expect in the current year, and, at the same time, its impact, of course, outside the creation of chaos in public institutions, was completely minimal. However, the result of this attempt at Czech budgeting was the state budget, which I considered here from the outset to be unrealistic, marketing, with an effort to reduce the balance optically, and for a budget that does not sufficiently reflect the unprecedented increase in consumer prices and the change in the international policy situation. The Minister and the Government have achieved a seemingly better result, particularly because of volatile inflation, which has increased both tax and social insurance revenues. In the end, if we add it all year round, the increase is higher than 127 billion, it's about 127.4 billion in taxes and social security. And then thanks to a few marketing accounting tricks. The original version of the budget for 2022 was basically bone gnawing, if I called it that in a carried-over sense, but it was only a marketing and optical improvement for the media, and the real result was clear even if it was completely different. I'll remind you of the most important cuts of the day. Cut salaries by 9 billion, which meant a real decline in the income of thousands of employees in the Czech Republic, civil servants, in a year with unprecedented inflation. After our repeated warnings, and not just ours, the government had to go and find a solution anyway. [[14.50 hours]] Another 15 billion at the time was cut off on investment. To reduce investment, we warned myself, my colleague Vice-President of the House, Karel Havlíček, and others, that it was unreasonable at a time of slowing economic growth and, on the contrary, investments in such a situation should be supported and that they are the basis of future prosperity, future economic growth. And your budget was full of cut-off spending by billions, which you now justify by military conflict in Ukraine, but really it has nothing to do with this conflict. The reason why there were no reasonable cuts is and was quite clear to me from the start. The budget deficits of our government, which you like to remind, were not caused by irresponsible fiscal policy, as you have constantly tried to emphasize before and after the elections. Our government's budget deficits were forced by the then emergency situation, historically the highest decline in GDP in 2020 - minus 5.5 percent. You're not in recession yet, you're not in decline. You're slowing down. Our goal was to save Czech businesses from their collapse and in the result of maintaining unemployment at the lowest level from all EU countries. It is important to remember that, although closed operations were closed, closed companies, so we kept the Antivirus program and the compensatory bonus in particular, these were the most essential programs, but of course there were others, keeping the lowest unemployment in the European Union, which we are all now benefiting from. And it's one of the last benefits our economy has. There was no easy way to reduce the balance and it doesn't exist. However, I do not want to justify your resignation at all to the budget investigation you are proposing. There will certainly be items on which an investigation could be made as a result of increasing efficiency and making more reasonable use of public funds. I will talk much more about this when I evaluate the draft budget for 2023, which is going to happen very, very soon. And there's no more excuses for you not doing anything with a structural balance. I would still be able to understand that you could not have done this - no structural reforms in the budget of 2022. I would also be willing to understand that you would prepare a plan for consolidation of public finances in the longer term, just as our government had prepared it. We didn't count on it if we continued to solve it by waving a magic wand. But you have a clean zero from the perspective of structural reforms, from the point of view of correcting the structural deficit, the permanent one. And let's not forget that, of course, it was also involved in the fact that together, with several hands, we canceled - and for me rightly - the so-called super gross wage and made it possible for employees to get 7 percent net. As a result, most of them have made savings from which they can now draw. While Petr Fiala's original proposal brought a certain one, and I say marketing, an effort, because it was marketing all about savings, so today's amendment completely gave it up. And I'll remind you about the budget at 2023 when we're dealing with it here. The expenditure submitted by the state budget amendment for 2022 for the first time exceeds, as I said a moment ago, CZK 2 trillion, namely CZK 2,008.3 billion. Unfortunately, the five-wheelers are unable to divide these expenditures effectively. Where's the concrete help to make people understand, to make sure it's not chaos? Once we hear 66 billion on an energy-saving tariff, a bombastic press conference, to find out quietly that it's actually only 16. Yeah, that's where your budget's at, I admit. And the 50 isn't really going to be, because after long months of our appeals, you decided to go to the ceiling - late and, of course, in a way that doesn't help most households, but even those companies. And the cost-effective tariff won't actually be this year. How are people supposed to understand that? How are they supposed to understand that? Why don't you make one strategy, a clear strategy, consult experts when you don't listen to us as opposition anymore? And maybe you should, because in a crisis, we really should talk. And in spite of all the criticisms you've submitted to our government at the time of the covid crisis, we've been trying to talk to you. Innumerable debates with our health ministers. I have dealt with you several times all the major legislative changes that have been made for the first time in this country's history, whether it was a credit moratorium, whether it was a compensatory bonus. I listened to your accusations. And, of course, I never forgot to discuss it with the representatives of the unions, chambers and especially those involved. You let inflation get away with it. You did. The measures introduced by a number of countries in the European Union have simply been taken late. That inflation is scary. And who makes the most of it? He benefits most from standing on it. Every month I watch the cashier's performance, every month I comment on it, every month I give some opinions on the network. And I just see that your spending is growing, I'm not saying that you don't, but your income is growing in a huge way. I have a whole list of all the taxes that are actually increasing in this budget, but these are the numbers that we have repeated many times here. And, of course, CEZ's dividend, we called... How many times have we called, take a dividend? You just want to go the complicated way of scratching your right hand behind your left ear. But that's the subject we're going to be dealing with in the foreseeable future, I mean taxing those extraordinary profits now. I'll stop at the expense of this novel. Because, of course, it's starting to mess with our budget for 2023, so I'm stressing - this amendment for 2022. The deficit was designed by 330 billion. When we look at the amendments and the ANO movement presented a number of them and my colleagues who justified them here at second reading, the shadow ministers of our shadow government will come out again and talk about them and remind them again and simply say what is important, because on the budget committee, where the minister was not, to be fair, there was a deputy, an official, but I suppose he had political notes from the minister, so he gave a negative opinion to all of our amendments. I conclude from this that the negative opinion will be expressed today by the Minister. And it's a shame, because I think we're supposed to talk about it even in the crisis, and we're supposed to talk about whether or not there's a point, and the minister finally said it here as part of the first reading, and I remember him saying, we're going to go through it, we're going to assess it. Instead, I repeat, two amendments from government benches to a total amount of 45 billion. [[15.00 hours]] Again, I do not understand how the government communicates. How is it possible that the Minister of Social Affairs here, as a Member, is loading an amendment of 7 billion, where he is actually increasing the mandatorial expenses notabene's amendment to 2022 has already increased by almost 15 billion? And I don't really mean extraordinarily valorizing pensions right now. I mean, really, the terms of the mandatorial expenses. But at least that's what I appreciated, and here I'm going to say it again, that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs at least stepped up and justified it. Unlike the second amendment, where we had to call on the Minister of Finance the next day to explain it, because it was only read by signing up for a number in a detailed debate for 38 billion. The Treasury Secretary here the next day got off on our appeal and explained it here. Again, $8 billion goes to an increase in state debt, $30 billion goes to grants for big companies. The government didn't know it wanted to put this item in the grant program? That's not five crowns. Sorry about the expression, 30 billion. They've been talking about it for how long. Big companies are about to collapse. I'm sure my honored colleague, Vice-President of the House, Karel Havlíček, will talk about it. But, of course, it's not real to spend the money by the end of the year, I say as former finance secretary. That means, it's money that's going to be really drawn in 2023, that's also supposed to be right there. Okay, we support it, we don't want to take companies hostage, but that the money isn't really spending, it's more or less certain, it's going to end up in unused spending and it's going to be pumped up next year. The question is, is it not too late for these companies to hear what's going on around us and how they express themselves? Guys... [[He's turning around.]] Oh, so it's just that, Minister, I don't see another minister here, at least we can see what priority the government of Petr Fiala gives to the state budget. [[Stanjuro]] It's just a novel... [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Thank you. It's just a novel, but only - in quotation marks - an amendment to the law of the year. And that's how we've always treated him. So, Minister, fellow Members of the Government of the Five Coalition, the economic situation in the Czech Republic is clearly starting to get out of hand. The proof is that confidence, trust in entrepreneurs is below its long-term average in the context of short-term surveys. Consumer confidence is at its historically lowest point. Consumer pessimism is extreme. Nearly a third of households say that they are barely going to make ends meet today. Most households are now beginning to doubt their future. I ask for you: What can we do to stabilise this crisis here today? How to prevent a large part of the Czech population from falling into poverty? What can we do against the decline in real wages, which has been the highest since 1993 and is at 10 percent? How to help that part of the population that has a major problem with buying food or paying for energy today? How can we prevent the fall of Czech companies, which employ our citizens here, and thanks to which we have the lowest unemployment rate from all the countries of the European Union? These are questions to which the current state budget should be able to answer. I fear that under the leadership of the current government coalition, however, we will not hear the answers today. We are only before the vote on individual amendments. I was hoping that at least some of our club of the YES movement would be supported, because otherwise we can't support the budget. We believe that this is simply a hot needle budget, that it is a pasquil, but at the same time we are aware that the Czech Republic needs an amendment to the state budget. He needs a bad one, but he needs a budget, we've had enough budget commissions. So I promise for us, for the club of the ANO movement, that we will be as constructive as possible. And I believe we won't be alone in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Foldyna will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. She mentioned it to my previous speaker when she said that the government ministers weren't really here. It is an honor to the Minister of Finance to sit here and defend what he must defend. And I don't envy him. I'm asking, why isn't the Secretary of Defense here, Mrs. Černochová, who has such an increase in her budget? She would actually be the secretary of war with the rhetoric he's running. [[unintelligible]] Why isn't the Minister of Industry sitting here who can't answer and secure the energy issues of the Czech industry going to hell? Why isn't the Minister of Foreign Lipavský sitting here, it's such an outrage of foreign policy... [[Laughs in the hall.]] Why doesn't he explain his stories here? Why is the finance minister sitting here when we're preparing this country for a hard time when we're going to have to adopt a budget of 375 million minus when we don't have... [[Member Schiller of the bench: Billion.]] Billion, excuse me, billions minus when will we not have energy, when citizens will be plagued by closing the fabric? So there's just one single minister sitting here and you're all fucked... you're all gone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for almost keeping you in line. [[Officer Foldyna off the mic: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Please, more polite terms. Thank you. Mr Brabec has now made a point of fact. Does he want to go first? Please. Mr Brabec with a factual remark, then Mrs President, yes, Schillerová. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u14	I'll be very brief and hold on. It's a disgrace. It's a disgrace to the government, it's a disgrace to the government coalition. I remember -- and now I'm not just talking about the budget or the novel -- we're going to get there gradually -- but it's disrespect, it's contempt for the House. I remember when we were terrorized by the almost former opposition here when we weren't here, we took the liberty of going somewhere, in any case, trying to be here in some number, so that we might react. It's clear here that the Finance Minister has to be here, it's his duty, it's nice that he's here, but I can't imagine he wouldn't be here anymore. But the Prime Minister isn't here, there are no other members... [[Minister Stanjura - a comment from the rapporteur's desk.]] Okay, fine. So he's coming, yes, thank you, he's excused, so he's coming. But there are no other ministers. Apparently they don't care, I understand that in light of today's other events in Brno, some of them are probably worried about something else... [[Let's hear it.]] But this is just contempt for the sněmovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, I promised a moment ago in my speech that we would be as constructive as possible. We do not want to mess up the amendment to the State Budget Act, because, as I said, this country needs even bad, but it needs a budget, but it really needs only the Minister of Finance sitting here, for which I thank him, because he really has to be here, we consider it completely inappropriate, at 15.30 the Minister says that the Prime Minister will come, but we would like him to respond to the appearance of the Vice-President of the House of Karel Havlíček, the Minister of Industry and Trade, where we want to talk about the subsidies. We want to ask about big companies that have huge problems. We would like to appreciate him sitting here - and seeing how polite I am, I say we appreciate - the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs sitting here, who also has a huge amendment there. Not to mention all the other ones I left out out of courtesy. So, please, before I make any procedural suggestion that I don't do another exercise here that... I'm gonna be criticized for any obstructions, so very politely please the Minister of Finance, would he tell us if, because there's only one representative of the government, I thank you in advance if any of these least-appointed members of the government will show up. Because we really consider it very, very undignified. I'm not making any procedural proposals yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. President Benda, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u18	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but when this meeting is due to be held, it has been agreed and agreed with the opposition that the Minister of Finance should be present, whom we consider to be a very key figure in discussing the draft law on the State Budget. Other appointed ministers, especially the Minister of Defence, Prime Minister, Minister Lipavský, have a long-term plan for the Security Council of the State, for which, of course, there are also people who are. [[15.10 hours]] They're gonna come, they're gonna count on it, but I think I'd understand that in this situation, they'd be giving you an amendment to the state budget, so that in the third reading, the bad habits that we made the third reading an endless point, I don't take them away from you. Criticize yourself. But to feel that everyone has to sit there until the moment before the vote goes, normally the third readings have just been voted on. We'll have the same fight in a short time when we're reading the state budget next year, but I'm really pointing out that the ministers are on the State Security Council.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak with de facto effect, then Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u20	I would like to respond to Mr Benda, through Madam President. In any case, it's a third reading, you say it well. And the amendments that have been tabled and which have just been quoted here by Mrs Schillerová are not small. And it's perfectly logical... [[A reminder from the diaper.]] No, no, no, it's the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and it's perfectly logical that our shadow ministers will ask questions. So that's why it's said here that it's very disrespectful that ministers don't sit here. I also thank the Minister of Finance, who sits here, but unfortunately he presents this bill, so he has to sit here. But where are the other ministers? And it's perfectly logical that the questions will fall here. As far as I know, you're in big time. If you want some subsidies to be released by the end of the year, which I don't think you're gonna make it through time anyway, and it's been said that it's gonna roll over to the next year, then you just have to move it at some pace. So I would totally expect you to see this thing, and this thing here is, no one here is logged in, yes, those who are logged in will really put it on those given ministers. But you see, the rest of us honor it and we're not logged in, and really only those who will ask questions are logged in. But to whom? Empty bench?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u22	So, of course, I'm ready to answer questions, and not just the Treasury Department, but the others. But to be fair, I don't know which of the previous speakers claimed that there wasn't a Secretary of Defense here who had a different business meeting, but there are zero changes in the Ministry of Defence's budget. Zero. So, of course, there may be a question, but for a budget that was approved many months ago, or for a future budget, we are not discussing either of these materials. So there really is no change from the government in the Ministry of Defence department, and I feel that there is no proposal in the amendments that concerns the Ministry of Defence. Without a doubt, colleagues will come and I will try to answer any questions. There was just one inaccuracy. In the proposal tabled by, among other things, the chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Ivan Adamec, the 8 billion goes on an austerity tariff. It's not 16, it's 24. Yes, it's for debt service, because we freed up the money when the government decided it wouldn't be 25 percent, as it would have been calendarly, but that it would be 40 percent this year, so 8 billion more applied to the austerity tariff. But it's normal. We needed to send the money early, I think the citizens on the advances already see the austerity tariff as they have reduced advances, and now it only comes back with the budget measures that Mr Ivan Adamec has read. Just an explanation. That's the part about the amendment. The second part, 30 billion, was described exactly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Baxa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u24	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I used to have a debate here with my colleague Pokorna Jermanová about important investments. I see it's logged in. I assume he'll be asking questions about my department. I'm just saying that I've been duly excused since 5:30, because today the new Museum of Literature will be opening, which is a key event in the order of decades, but I'm no doubt aware that I'm ready to return and answer questions afterwards. And since the government has agreed in the draft budget, the amendment, this year's budget and the money for my ministry, I am able to explain, of course. So I'm just saying that I'm not avoiding it, even though I'm excused, so I'm able to come back. It's as relevant as that, so I just want to let myself know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Minister. And now President Radim Fiala will speak with priority rights. Then Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies, gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, and what Minister Stanjura said here. I understand that he may be a loser in defense, but who we immediately lack here is Minister Síkela. Because I believe that the energy crisis is constantly increasing and the problem is escalating, accelerating, threatening, and we will definitely talk about it today, closing companies in the Czech Republic, leaving companies in the Czech Republic, increasing unemployment in the future, and the future does not look good at all. And I believe that when we talk about the budget, right after the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry and Trade should play a second major role here, Minister Síkela, on whom we will definitely, and I will also, we will have questions, because a lot of questions remain unanswered, company owners write to us, company managers write to us, and it is just a big problem. However, I would like to focus mainly on macroeconomic issues at today's third reading of the budget. When it was before the end of the parliamentary term, last term, this government, which now rules, said that they were economically prepared, that they would be economically and budgetaryly accountable to the government, that they would reduce deficits, and I am convinced that the previous government was making unnecessary large deficits. koneckonců all - and I certainly do not defend it, the government of Andrej Babiš, after all, spoke of it in the report of the Supreme Audit Office. But what didn't happen, this government is acting exactly the same way. And I don't think it's just an energy crisis that can be talked out, because it was a covid crisis in the last government, so everyone has some reason to be budgetaryly irresponsible. But we must look at what this will mean for the Czech Republic in the future. Today we will approve the state budget deficit of CZK 375 billion. After all, I can already say for the SPD that we will not vote for such a huge deficit. So what does it mean for the future, these huge deficits? Unfortunately, you can't see in the end that there's some light in the tunnel at the end, that the deficits would start to decrease, God forbid we would, and we would love to, get to black zero in some medium term, or at least red zero, or just somewhere around zero. What happens if that doesn't happen, Minister? And unfortunately, we can see from medium-term perspectives that this will not happen. First of all, it's increasing, with inflation, it's increasing the interest rate. We can't get credit with a debt service like we've done so far. This means that our interest rate will increase, and the government debt service will increase from some 40 billion to maybe up to 100 billion, and if we make more and more debts, then, of course, there could be more in the future. That's one thing I'm warning you about here. When it comes to energy, it's a big problem. While we are in the Czech Republic, or Petr Fiala's government has put gas prices on the market for households and small companies at 3 crowns per kilowatt hour, Germany is planning, according to the proposal of its expert committee, a ceiling on the price of natural gas for 1.7 crowns per kilowatt hour. You see, and now I need Minister Síkela here so that we can have a discussion together that would be a discussion of arguments, and of course we would like to know the answers from him. [[15.20 hours]] In practice, the SPD's view is thus confirmed that the ceiling on energy prices by the government of Petr Fiala is absolutely inadequate. In addition, unlike the Czech government, the German government plans to stop gas prices to all customers, including large industrial firms, while companies are failing because of the government's inactivity. Yes, I've been hearing from the Olomouc Region a lot of companies, and they say we got energy invoices and we're closing. We're closing because we just can't afford to pay for it. We're releasing employees and closing companies, closing shop, because we have to wait for this to blow over. And I'm asking here, Minister Síkela or Minister Stanjur, when will all this blow over? Answer not to me, but to them, to those companies that close and release these people. In discussing the amendment of the Energy Act in the House, we proposed a ceiling on the price of gas at the level of one koruna per kilowatt hour, as well as that of absolutely all gas users in the Czech Republic. But this was rejected by the government coalition MPs of ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN. Other European countries do not rely on the European Union's solutions and take their own measures. We've been saying this since the beginning. There will be no Euro-EU solution. Unless they can't collect taxes, so they'd like to collect fees into a common Euro-EU budget, which they can then use for anything. Not only for the energy crisis, but for the war in Ukraine, or for the economic stabilisation of southern European states such as Italy, Greece, Spain and so on. It's just what's going to push the hardest, so that's what the financials are going to use. So to continue, those states are taking their own measures. For example, German Chancellor Scholz announced at the end of September the creation of a special economic fund of EUR 200 billion in support of actions to save German citizens and industrial enterprises at risk of high energy prices. If this support for large companies in Germany passes, our companies will become completely uncompetitive and their products with these energy prices simply cannot compete on the market. And what does that mean? That the Czech companies would destroy it. Either they go somewhere in the world for cheaper energy, or it destroys them. For both of us, both of them are wrong because they won't pay taxes here, they won't employ people here, they'll be losses both in the state budget and on social and health insurance. And that state, if these people aren't employed, it's actually going to have to spend it again on welfare benefits and unemployment benefits. So these are all impacts on unemployment and the state budget, and that is, of course, unacceptable for us. And what happens? Unemployment will increase and unemployment will increase if the firms close, and it will be a really big problem. I think what's happening is a big problem, and that's what I call very diplomatically. And in my opinion, as far as the state budget is concerned, it's time for a big inventory of both the expenditure part and the revenue part. It's time to reconstruct the state budget. In my opinion, it's just that some numbers are always added to it. Since 1989 or since 1990, numbers have been added to it, and there are things that are 30 years old, and they may not even be in those budgets anymore. And finally - I will speak very briefly today - I must say that this is no pleasant future that we see in this economic, industrial, agricultural complex. That means those companies are getting into a lot of trouble, but we don't see it from a state budget point of view. Because what is the result of the energy crisis and the result of liberal democracy? Go to work. If energy money isn't enough for you, don't worry and go to social services. Firms, ask for subsidies for the energy crisis. This means that we will all work, we will also depend on social benefits, companies will depend on subsidies, and the state budget will wear it out in a few years. This means that there will be a socio-economic crisis, a socio-economic tension, and I am convinced that it will certainly interfere - why do I say to the socio-economic one? Because I don't know where the government, maybe the next one, maybe this government at the end of this parliamentary term, will be looking for funds, for example, for pensions and other mandatorial expenses. So I fear the future, and for this reason, the SPD, of course, cannot support the budget with such a deficit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Vít Vomáčka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this may be strange, but I would like to appreciate Mr Fiala's speech, President of the SPD, because Hungary has not fallen here all the time. Remember, three months ago, the Council of 19 wise men on the left-hand side taught the government how to take a role model from Hungary. And today, we kind of kept our mouths shut about it. You weren't talking about demonstrations in Hungary, you weren't talking about inflation in Hungary, you were talking about fuel conditions, and you were always talking about Germany and Chancellor Scholz. So I see your big shift in that, and thank you for skipping Hungary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for this award, but in any case it is the Czech state budget, which is why I was talking about the Czech Republic and, of course, Germany, because Germany is giving EUR 200 billion to save citizens in order to save the German industry. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic has not covered expenditures for large companies and these companies have huge problems. So that's why I compared these two countries. In Hungary, I don't exactly have detailed information about these things. Unfortunately, I don't, but it's written about Germany. When you read the daily press, it's written all over Germany. That's why I used Germany. When it's written about Hungary, I'll definitely use Hungary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Adamec first, then Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u32	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I will not respond to everything that has fallen here. Some science fiction that's being lectured here, I'm kind of enjoying it. But about Germany. Please, he said it, but it's at the proclamation stage, and if anyone thinks this is going to go through in Europe, this kind of support, I don't think so, because then the common market would end, the European Union would end. Then let's not be scared. Seriously, he said it, but the practice is completely different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u34	I would like to ask that we use these examples of other countries in case they are already in force. Here we heard not only Hungary the other day, but Slovakia, to find out later, many of us knew in advance that this was not actually true. So I do not want to question the considerations of politicians from other countries, but the example of Germany shows this. Yes, it's an idea, I don't think it's going to happen, but that's what we're going to say, and that's exactly what we shouldn't want, and it's exactly the opposite path that Radim Fiala said. If we go the way of national solutions, it is wrong for the Czech Republic. We are not able to support companies economically, as the Němec support. Let's face it! The economy is much stronger. It is in our life's interest to have a European solution, even if you do not like it. From a national point of view, it is important to have a European solution, from the point of view of Czech companies, because there are richer economies. And if we get into a competition that gives the state budget more, we just can't succeed in that competition. We can't! So we're going to try to keep it under consideration. If it is the support of households, it is a different story, it is a matter of individual governments, but the support of companies - first of all, it would be illegal from the point of view of European law. The pressure on Germany is from all sides, it is not only from the Czech Republic. Just because it's not written doesn't mean we don't talk about it with colleagues. But I say it's against our national interests to allow a competition that the state will give more out of its budget, because we just can't succeed in this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Minister. And in fact, President Radim Fiala wants to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u36	I agree with Minister Stanjura, which is why I'm saying here that if this goes through and Germany does the fund, then our companies end because they're uncompetitive on the market. That's a sure thing. But Minister, what if the common European solution is not? And I'm the pessimist here. I fear that 27 states will simply not be able to agree, because each state has a state budget in a different state, someone in a better state, such as Germany, someone in a catastrophic state, such as Greece or Italy. And it's just gonna be a problem to make a deal with 27 states. But the worst thing I think it would be if we relied on a common European solution, which, as I said, as a pessimist, will not be, and have done nothing. They didn't do anything and let the companies fall. And we're at the beginning of when they start falling. That's why I'm raising my index finger, my finger, and I'm saying watch out, we just have to do something. And you yourself have said that if there is no common European solution, we will have a national solution. And I'm calling you to make a national solution so we can just help those companies. It sounds very simple, but I know it's very complicated, and I understand. But we have to do something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. With a factual remark, the Minister of Finance will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u38	In response to. [[unintelligible]] Yes, that's true, and we're also doing the national solution. We've already decided to put a stop to it. It's not a plan for us. It's about-- first I'm gonna talk about electricity. It concerns everyone - now I will not talk about households - small and medium-sized enterprises that are under low tension. For small and medium-sized enterprises that are not at low voltage, what we have agreed at European level is true. This means that they may have a ceiling of up to 80 per cent of their average consumption. But be careful, it's on a monthly basis. And from the last five years, they can choose the highest consumption they've had in one of the last five years. This means that really it can be up to 90 percent, because they had more economically successful years when they needed higher production, and they can change it on a monthly basis, they don't have to choose a whole year. That's a big help. Part of this novel is the $30 billion for big companies. And we continue to discuss European rules on how to help large companies in the Czech Republic. So we are already completing the European solution today, where we have managed, for example, to negotiate aid for small and medium-sized people up to 80% in the highest consumption in the last five years on a monthly basis, and that is not enough. Of course, we know about the big companies. The problem really exists, I'm not demeaning it, I'm just saying that we're looking for the solution in cooperation with other states. There's probably no need for unanimity, so we're looking for mostly qualified majority, the bigger the majority, the better. Because, after all, there is something else in the Iberian Peninsula than in Central Europe, where we belong. So we need to have the same solution especially with our neighbors. The fact that things are going to be different on the Pyrenees Peninsula is just a fact, and it's not even the immediate competition for our companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Now I'm going to ask for patience because there are no apologies and more, so I'm going to read it all. As the first apologizes to President Adamová Pekarová for the entire meeting day due to foreign travel, Jarmila Levko for the whole meeting day for health Ženíšek, Petr Beitl for the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Romana Bělohlávková for the Pavel meeting Růžička due to family reasons, Milan Brázdil for the whole meeting day due to medical reasons, Jaroslav Dvořák for the whole meeting Eliška due to medical reasons, Martin Exner for the Mádlová meeting day due to medical Ivana, Stanislav Fridrich for the whole meeting day due to health Julius, Jiří Hájek for the whole meeting Lucie due to Potůčková reasons, Síla Hofmann for the whole meeting day due to personal reasons, David Kasal for the whole meeting day for the whole working day, Jiří Kobza for the whole meeting day for the whole medical reasons, Martin Kolovratník for the whole meeting day due to health reasons, Stržínek králíček for the whole meeting day for the Olšáková medical Špičák of the case of the sitting day, for the whole day of the case of the sitting day. Minister Vladimír Balaš apologizes from the members of the government for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Ivan Bartoš for the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, MikuláMikuláš Bek for the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Pavel Blažek for the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Anna Hubáčková for the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Helena Langšádlová for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Jan Lipavskýý for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons and Minister Zdeněk She didn't roll all day on account of a foreign trip. Thank you for your patience. And now, please, Mr Vice-President, your application with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I no longer took a factual decision, but before I say what I wanted to say, allow a short response. You are right, Minister, that it is extremely difficult to compete with Germany and that in fact no European country has a chance to resist if Germany decides to support its economy massively. I fully agree with that. Do you remember the covid time? You remember when we toiled here with all the programs, when we spent 50 percent of the cost, as you told us within the five-wheel drive: Look to Germany, look, they give 70 percent of their revenues. I said back then, "We can't do this." We're not able to finance this. We're going to give 50 percent of the cost, and we're going to do that with the tongue on the vest. You said, "No, look at Germany or Austria." It's all coming back, Minister, like when you told us last September that it was Babišův's price. Now you have five times as much inflation. And notice, we're not saying it's Fialův's price. And maybe I could continue with the budget, which will eventually be plus or minus similar to what we suggested. You see, it's not easy. And I'm not saying that with gloating, I'm just saying that those times are changing and that it's simply being criticized and then it's becoming more demanding. And I don't blame you for having a hard time at this point, or I don't envy you to be precise. I know it's not easy. But let's look at what I wanted to say, and that's going to be quite factual, we're at third reading, and I'm just going to focus on the 30 billion we unfortunately didn't have enough to discuss at the second reading, although I asked about it here. I wanted to see how things were going with the business support. Because it was only CZK 375 billion if there were to be 30 billion, so it is not a very small amount, and because it was not in the budget for 2023, we did not even see it on the budget for 2022, so we wanted to see how it would actually be folded. We didn't get an answer. But the truth is, a few dozen minutes before the end of the second reading, the meeting, it was loaded. The more I regret that the Minister of Industry is not here, because, of course, we will support it, the 30 billion. It's all that's left, 'cause it's better than nothing. But as far as the amount of this money is concerned, I don't think it's handled correctly. I'll try to explain what I see the problem. But first, we have to say, because it is linked to what this government has done for those entrepreneurs since the beginning of the crisis. Again, I could remind you that entrepreneurs have been in very serious trouble for three years. The first two covides, now energy, and it can be assumed that 2023 and maybe 2024, will be critical to them. And we can talk about how you criticized us at the time of the covideo, yet we supported 700 000 entrepreneurs, it cost CZK 370 billion, half of it direct support, half indirect. Dozens of programs were and we were constantly figuring out how to do it with costs, whether they were personnel costs, other operating costs, or how to help in paying off investments. You criticized us, we took it, we understood it, we argued about it, but we lived through it. The Ministry was open to those entrepreneurs, we dealt with unions, associations, entrepreneurs knew what to expect, and even though they didn't like it many times, at least we told them, but in the finals I'm convinced that we saved the vast majority of entrepreneurs because of it. And it may have been because of a rather harsh discussion with the opposition at the time. There's no way we blame you for that. [[15.40 hours]] What about you at this time? We've been through nine and a half months of 2022, and when I recapitulate the support of entrepreneurs, guarantees - total fiasco. That should have been a lot to deal with. I'm just saying, we gave a thousand guarantees a month at the time of the covid. Yes, forgiveness of payments for renewable resources after our big criticism that it is not yet so, eventually it applies from 1 October, but when we look, prices have gone up so low that it will be so low that it will be under discernment. But I'm not criticizing it, we were suggesting it. There is the so-called compensation for indirect costs, unfortunately it is only for a few dozen companies, but it is a thing that was here in the past. In fact, there is no follow-up to the crisis, whether we say war or energy, which was due to the extreme increase in emission allowances prices long before this crisis. We started it. And I agree, it's a good thing you're giving today, I think it's CZK 800 million, but it's a few dozen subjects. That really doesn't solve anything fundamental. Yes, you said right here, Minister, a ceiling has been prepared that will apply to small and medium-sized companies at the level of six or three crowns, including VAT, electricity and gas. We can talk about the ceiling being too high. Firms can't understand that if we can produce electricity almost by the cheapest order, that we don't go through the producer prices, but we're pinning it from above on a relatively high ceiling. But I admit, for small and medium-sized companies, this is a tool that, when it gets even lower - and we can talk about where it should be reduced, the government has the option under its regulation - so it is a tool that is factual, which is right. Let us just remember that at the end of August, you strictly rejected this. But now I'm not criticizing it, thank God this tool is here. And then we have larger companies, for which so far nothing has been prepared. And we're at the core of the poodle, and that's the 30 billion crowns. Since April, the Minister of Industry has promised to prepare a temporary framework. From April it is being prepared, by the end of August nothing was finished and at the end of August it claimed that there would be nothing at all. After the thunders of lightning started to fly, it started to rain, everything turned around, so it quickly started to put together this program, and according to that, Minister, it looks. When you look at how the program is designed, we have to see that it is sewn with a hot needle because it is extremely complicated and mainly based on the fact that there must be a loss within the operating economic result. Well, if we think about it, it really means that companies that have been trying to work with the crisis since the beginning of the year, maybe tried to let people go, tried to catch up on what they could, so in the finals, there will be bits more to it than companies that let it flow freely. Even worse, it's set, and I don't get it, since February. I mean, the decline in the operating result will be measured. I mean, we all know that in February, March, maybe April, I don't know, the old fixations were coming up. That means the companies didn't have the problem of being lost at the time. They have a problem today, and today maybe several times bigger. But by counting it from February, again, a number of companies are eliminated from it. And I'm not talking about the fact that certain segments have been selected, so they can draw and they can't. I wouldn't exactly say that they're wrong-chosen segments here, so that I'm objective, because it concerns companies that are industrial-oriented, but we can talk about why other companies can't reach it. I understand that there are rules in the European Union, I know how other countries are going to do it, and I take it it's not easy to get things done today. But why don't we at least try? I don't know if Germany's gonna end up giving 200 billion or not. We can talk about why, on the eve of the negotiations in the framework of a Europe-wide solution - on which you, Minister, rely a great deal, so I do a lot less, not because I would not want it, but because I am unfortunately a realist - why Germany will just let out on the eve of these negotiations, and obviously not just a balloon, so it will put EUR 200 billion in the support of its businesses. It may not be the end of the day that the European Union will eventually pull them back, but in any case, it is some kind of signal. And I read in the signal between the lines that Germany doesn't bet much on the pan-European support and that it's already preparing a position, perhaps even for negotiations, as part of local support. And I say this because Germany wasn't waiting for anything, and even if it's still on the level of an expert proposal, it's true, it's not on the level that the government has blown up somewhere, so it's in a situation where Germany negotiates with the European Commission that for medium and large companies, for their industry, it's going to put down the price of gas at 1.70 kroner per kilowatt hour. If this were to pass - and today the Němec are openly talking about thinking that there is a great chance of getting it into the so-called temporary framework - so help us God. At that point, it would have occurred that German industrial firms would have rolled over the entire centre of Europe. But I was quite interested in the whole other thing, and that's the philosophy the Němec are into. They say they're trying to make better prices for businesses and industry than they'll have for households, because if I have the right information, they want to put gas at a level of plus minus three crowns per kilowatt hour for households. Among other things, it's similar to ours. But in fact, they say that they would spread almost 50 percent or 60 percent of the price of the households to the industry. That's pretty big news. Among other things, it has a strong effect on the market, and it has a very strong psychological impact on the market. Because what's happening on the industrial market today, not just in our country, but throughout Europe? Confusion and uncertainty. We must see this in the Czech Republic. He's leaving the business. Glassmakers have a huge problem, companies have a huge problem in the ceramic industry, construction materials, foundries breathe, chemistry and so on. One of the biggest problems these companies are dealing with today is total unpredictability. Let us admit that the smaller and medium-sized ones are somehow accepting that they will have a high ceiling, they will fight as I have today also dealt with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce from, among other things, your region, the Moravian-Silesian region, so fatally disagree with the amount that it is, but let us leave that to some further negotiations. I believe that under the pressure of the unions, the associations will be able to reduce it, the framework, and that it will actually go through the manufacturers, but that is another matter. But those medium-sized and larger companies that aren't getting into the support of the splashing are crushing the investment today. In the sense that they are crushing - that means they are not ready to invest. Well, logically, why? Because if they don't know how it's going to go, if they don't know what programs they're going to be, if they don't know what's going to be or isn't going to be in the context of a temporary framework or a potential ceiling, they're ready not to invest at the moment. And that'll catch us, Minister. I even think this is worse than the current situation we're experiencing today. Because we all know that we're making this gross domestic product out of what? We're taking it out of consumption, we're taking it out of investment, and we're taking it out of some kind of export and import balance. How are we going to compose it in the years to come? From consumption? Consumption will be no glory, people will have less and less money if the state does not catch up with consumption or spending the state. I don't think that's right, nor do you. If we don't catch up with this consumption by getting higher prices due to inflation, but it won't last, we believe, forever. Investment? So households don't invest because they're expensive interest rates, high interest rates, and we see mortgages flying down. Businesses are holding back their investments because they're in huge uncertainty, they don't know what's going to happen next. And then we can rely on something else to be exported here and hopefully the balance of exports and imports will still be in our favor. When we add this up and underline it, I see it as a greater threat than 375 billion minus this year, and I don't know, 295 or 325, if I add to that the unfortunate Ministry of Transport for next year, and maybe something will add to that. I see this as a really big problem, because then we're all here, whether it's your government or our government, because these governments are going to take turns here, we're going to be fighting with spending more or less drawn, we're not going to do a lot with them, which you're finally seeing today, but I don't know what we're going to get our revenue from. If I go back to these companies and add to that that they are in great uncertainty about how interest rates are going to develop, even though today I would say it's almost certain for them, which is not, of course, your fault, but the central bank's fault, because now loans in the koruna are above 5% and in many cases even 7 percent, and when we add fuel prices to that, we're back to where we were. Companies are getting into a critical situation. And they would understand that we are in an extraordinary time if they could see that the situation is developing similarly in Europe and that, for example, there is a single energy European market. In other words, if we are to have high energy prices, let all companies in Europe have them, at least roughly, and let us try to survive in some way. [[15.50 hours]] What is depressing is that, in the Czech Republic, the costs are increasing, I mean to companies, which we have to see, and I have mentioned the costs here, unfortunately, in other European countries, however we may not like it and we can tell ourselves whether they have already introduced it or not, so the subsidy programs or other measures that they are planning, today our companies are getting off the hook. That's reality. And we can talk about whether Slovakia will eventually introduce the 1,500 crowns or not. According to the latest reports, they will eventually implement it, but with some 70% limit. We can look in Poland if, I suspect, it's CZK 3,500 per electricity, if it's right, it's not right whether it touches their budget or not, but in any case we're no longer talking, Minister, just about the Iberian market, we're talking about the surrounding countries. And I'm afraid it's Germany, if they do it, even with less money than it's putting in, and it starts to work on the basis that it outlined, it's gonna be the end of our business. Please take this into account! Talk to the government about it! I know it's not easy. I don't envy the situation. But if we underestimate this, we'll all be caught up. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. We will therefore continue to be duly entered into the debate now. Mr Marek Novák will be the first to speak, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, we are here today to discuss adjustments to the budget of the Czech Republic for this year. This year at the end of October. On purpose, I say to be present because, in fact, the only approved change in the transfers of funds from the budgetary chapters of education and sport as a result of committee discussions clearly shows how the current five-calice understands the solution to the coming crisis. The new version of this year's budget counts, and although it is October, so far, with an increase in the deficit of 60 billion to some 330 billion, and in recent weeks, it has flown here as swallows of investment in the ceiling of 130 billion. I'm asking you, what are you playing at, government, who are you playing at? The citizens of our republic, who are not the ones who have caused the mega problem we are living in today, want to hear clear solutions from you. What about when and how? And you, with your head forgiven in the back of the European Union, lay a lie on a lie and, in fact, you don't even know where the truth is anymore. Your party model, a recent colleague and many times called demon of this House, Miroslav Kalousek, literally stated on his Facebook profile: 2022 deficit 330 billion, 2023 deficit 295 billion, 2024 deficit 280 billion, 2025 deficit 260 billion. The increase in debt for your term of office is CZK 1 trillion 165 billion. The government has lost the ability to manage state finances in a sustainable way, credit rating agencies will punish us and future generations will curse us. There is no excuse for war or energy prices. There's been a total failure in crisis management. haló, gentlemen Stanjuro, Fialo, Síkelo and other members of the fraternity - your former Kalousek, your colleague, and not just him, is beating the alarm! Can you hear him? No, you can't, 'cause I don't think you can. The government is run by a college professor and the rector for the last time. Industry banker, clerk from Erste Group, and finance computer engineer. Shouldn't a crisis economist be sitting there? A manager with experience in industry and a banker or at least an economist in finance? I mean, if they were in government, there'd be something going on a long time ago. But the guys are still playing, the one at school, the one at the bank, or they have it as a computer game. And maybe some like Tetris. Forgive me, but the only thing that can be commended is that the budget is in line with legal standards. Budget responsibility zero, company zero, Czech citizens again one big zero. How is it that the Czech Republic, as the Presidency of the European Union, does not call to account those who have caused this unsolvable situation in the energy sector? I mean, in particular, Germany and other states. Today we learn that Germany will not shut down the cores until spring. Where does Germany get the audacity to set the European Union's green policy when its plans crashed in the first slight turn? Have you told the citizens of the Czech Republic that countries that most instruct in the European Union, where and how further changes in energy should develop, have a gas supply closed with Russia by 2030? Did you tell them? And also, our ally, the United States. I can tell you, for example, one case in Slovakia. Company U.S. Steel Košice. Residence in Slovakia, owner of American, contract with Russian at Russian price. But that's okay with us. The behavior of this government often reminds me of a prince from a fairy tale who screams: Daddy will declare war on you! Do we actually know how much we pay for a cubic foot of liquefied gas from the only ship worth in the Netherlands? How can we prepare a budget if we don't even know what the cost is? And what is the country of origin of the gas anyway? Yeah, and why isn't the price of gas to be ceilinged in general? It would probably damage our allies' profits. More and more intensely, it turns out that no one can help us. Perhaps the year 1938 repeats itself in a different form. Everyone promised, and eventually we had to help ourselves. All of us left behind and all of us took care of ourselves. All the opposition proposals have already received a stop sign from the Minister of Finance. In all amendments to the opposition, real problems are addressed. But you probably don't care about them. You are not interested in a group of people with disabilities or sports children. And seniors, you've already sent them to the dart. Ladies and gentlemen, how do we deal with this situation at home? We wait, we promise, but mostly we wait again. Actually, yeah. Pirates need a digital office for their carefree pets from the previous period. Then let's give it to them for mega-dust! Like the Prague Institute of Innovation! This is a textbook demonstration of the alienation of pirát on state and city budgets. About the statements made by Minister Síkela from this week when she says something on Sunday, on Monday, on the other hand, and on Tuesday, in a different way - do you call this a predictable business environment? Are you planning a higher tax collection here? Forget it. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. Much worse is the outlook for the energy situation. If we read articles about the increase in tariffs 35 times in Germany, do you think this threat will stop by the Ore Mountains? Absolutely not. And the fact that there's a miracle somewhere along the way, we can forget about that too. We need to be clear, and after today's negotiations on the state budget, we will have it in black and white: we need to prepare for poverty, poverty, winter and lack of everything. Why? Because they're gonna leave us, and they're already thinking about it, big employers, and unemployment is gonna grow in leaps. Because it doesn't make people have the means to make a sustainable living. A grey economy will grow, outstanding loans. Companies and entrepreneurs will stop producing everything that is energy-intensive. It's not just glassmakers, it's also food industry. I've said this before. But what you're doing will only cause it not only to live here, but not even to die. People won't have a job, and they'll come to you through the welfare offices. Is that in your budget? You don't. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid it's too late. The effective actions of the government should have come long ago. In the spring, at the latest at the beginning of the summer. Unfortunately, that's what President Adamová was laughing at us for knitting sweaters. And now we're in a situation where we don't move 100 million here, 100 million there if we print more bills so people can have some paper in their hands. It's about changing the structure. About changing the structure of the budget, which will aim at maximizing possible revenue and spending the necessary expenditure effectively in order to maintain a social reconciliation and a solid state. [[16.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that by what I said here, I'm probably throwing games on the wall, but believe me, I'm not gonna stop. It will come to you all here in the Chamber of Deputies, once again, much more noticeable, will increase the cost of living in your home, or you will be able to raise your payments to the apartments in Prague. When it comes to you, when you have to reach into your pocket, it's gonna hurt. It'll be too late. You'll be sorry you're late. You've put us back in a position to disagree with your terrifying irresponsible policy is to take responsibility for your amateurism. That is why it is clear that your proposal today will pass. I'm bohužel so. And it's time to ask if another government would be better off. Yet I ask you all, colleagues, once again, to support the opposition's proposals to help people, companies and the Czech economy. I mean, why beg? Please finally admit that this government is not up to it, and it is high time to replace it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u43	I will read the apology: today, Mr Milan Wenzl apologizes for the whole day for health reasons. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be next. Mr. Jan Hrnčíř will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u44	Dear Vice-President... [[I'm sorry, but I'll ask in the left side of the hall... please.]] ... Dear Minister, fellow Members, allow me to comment on the third reading of the national budget amendment for 2022. I have performed at first reading, second reading, and today is the most important, third reading, where the Minister of Finance, when the various amendments are read, will say a favourable or disagreeable position. He has said several times here in other laws that the ANO movement does not submit amendments. So I would like to say that the YES movement in the framework of the state budget amendment has tabled many amendments, and I will be sure today to monitor closely whether any of these amendments, which are primarily for citizens of the Czech Republic, will be supported by the Minister of Finance. I am mainly in charge of my colleagues on my team, whether it is Jirka Mašek, Drahoslav Ryba, Hubert Lang and others, so I am in charge of the Ministry of the Interior, where we have tabled several amendments and things that we have already pointed out during the discussion of the budget for 2022. And I'd like to remind them that we've pointed out that it's wrong to make the budget provisional, that we've pointed out that cutting money in the interior department, which is in charge of security, which is one of the most important areas, that it's a step in the wrong direction, and some of these things are going back at the moment. But I am surprised by the Minister of the Interior that he is presenting things of a type which are also certainly important, that therefore the police fleet must be changed, so that he puts about 900 million in the draft budget for change. At the same time, he needs to buy a hostel for police officers in Kunratice for about CZK 300 million. And then, of course, there are funds relating to both legal and illegal migration, which is currently both in the context of the conflict in Ukraine and in the context of illegal migrants, especially Syřan. But what I'd like to say is that all these things ensure, and I keep saying it, those that we say "you need and you deserve great admiration, respect, respect," and I keep hearing it, and we say it. And it's true because in these crisis situations, who's helping? Well, the components of the integrated rescue system. And they're firemen, police officers, but of course they're rescue services, they're soldiers, too, but they're police officers and firemen at the department of the interior. So we say: you helped in the covid, you helped in the refugee crisis, you helped in Hřensko in the fire. But that's pretty much it. The Home Secretary here said he'd pay the cops overtime, but he'd set aside CZK 100 million for the overtime. Anyone who can count, if they divide it by the number of policemen and firefighters, it turns out to be about CZK 2,600 per cop and firefighter. In my opinion, this cannot in any way cover what overtime serves for. We have also now seen in the framework of illegal migration and in the framework of re-established checks at the Czech-Slovak border that a number of police officers must serve as part of the re-establishing of these controls. Well, in the beginning, when it started, I have to say, which was sometime in September, by the end of September, there were about 500 police officers. It's clear that if the cops are on those borders, they're missing them in the regions. I'm sure it's clear at the moment. That's why the Home Secretary came to the government and asked the soldiers to help. So now that it's extended by the next 20 days, it's October 28th, so now there's about 310 police officers, 80 customs officers and 60 soldiers on the border with Slovakia. I am convinced that even here are the overtime of those police officers, and I do not understand how the Home Secretary could have come into his office in December and the first step he took is that he changed the government's order approved by the previous government to increase police officers and firefighters by CZK 1,400 for 2022 and announced with all glory that it would increase them only by CZK 700. If we look at it, today the average salary of a police officer, I mean a policeman who is uniformed to explain it simply, is roughly... reduced from CZK 45,479 to CZK 45,144. It is, of course, caused by inflation. And it's clear that if we have about 45,000 desk seats for police officers today, we can see that we only have about 40,000 of them in our service. I would like to say that in 90 cases, stabilization contributions have changed for police officers. The fact that some police officers have left, so we can see in the figures that 157 police officers left the police in September, 140 police officers left in October, and in November he plans to leave less than 350 police officers. It is very interesting that in the past, the Independent Union has presented tables that have informed us how many police officers are leaving. From July 1st, based on the information I have, these tables are no longer given. Maybe they're not giving themselves away so we don't see what the exits will be like. [[16.10 hours]] I think, and again, that security is one of the most important things, and where funds should be directed at the moment, it is for the population's safety, for the security of the Czech Republic, which I repeat to us, that the components of the integrated rescue system can provide, and that is why funds should be directed there in particular. That is why I call on the Minister of Finance from this post to support the amendments that we have tabled, and they are practically two amendments. The first amendment concerns police officers and firefighters. There I would like to point out that, although from 1 September, police officers and firefighters who are not uniformed, that is, they are civilian employees, so they have increased their salaries by 10 percent. That's nice, but the cops and the firemen didn't get the money. And I think that if we were to give them the money, and I want to say that it's not a very large amount, because it's about 1,000 firefighters, it's 10,000 policemen, it's 15,000 to 15 million firefighters, sorry, and it's 130 million policemen. I think these people really deserve it. Therefore, I would very much like the amendment to the police officers who have increased since 1. 9. and who deserve it, even the civilian firefighters, so that they not only approve it, but also get the funds to do so. Again, I say that the amount is not within the framework of our large budget, and for what is being presented, I think it is certainly not large, but I think those people deserve it. The second one is that he's from 1. 9. It increased by 10 percent, but it didn't increase the most helpful, even though I have feedback here that the union agreed to increase by 10 percent from 1 January, and why wouldn't police officers and firemen deserve to get the 10% increase from 1 November? They don't deserve it for what they're doing? I think he deserves it, and therefore the proposal that we have tabled is to take from 1. 11. raised police officers who are in security forces, that is, those who are uniformed, even firemen, so that they too can get the 10% increase. That budget impact is 600 million for cops and 110 million for firemen. I say again that I will certainly follow those positions very closely, and I would very much like the Minister of Finance to have one of the opposition's amendments for the people who are in favour of the security of our country to support these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u46	To understand what you said, those people deserve the money, they get the money for the raise, there's no dispute. So now I don't fully understand, when the government decides that tariffs are going up, at that point, it's a mandatorial expense. So we don't have to worry, and I used a plural, and we don't have to worry, as you repeatedly asked, Madame, through the Vice-President, that these people deserve it, they deserve it, and they get the money. That's no question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, with a point of fact, is responding to your contribution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Minister, yes, from 1. 9. the salaries increased by 10 %, but the funds will have to be taken from another non-claim folder box, they did not receive more funds. No one got them, we have feedback from everyone. I suppose my colleague Drahoslav Ryba, who is in daily contact with firefighters, will confirm that. Is that fair? So you're from 1. 9. You raise the salaries of firefighters and plainclothes cops, and you don't give them the money? So they're gonna take it from non-interest files. I think this never happened in the past government, and if it did, you'd be standing here, and you'd also say it's not possible. Mrs. Finance Minister Alena Schillerová, if the salaries have increased, she has given money to do so. And that's how it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u49	Two factual points, now Mr Drahoslav Ryba, then Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. You let the minister go first. Please, Minister, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u50	But the money in the novel is, it's not broken down in chapters except for the Ministry of Education, the 800 million, the others are in the general treasury, it's in the explanatory memorandum to this press, so let's read the explanatory memorandum properly, there's the 2 billion, of which 800 million is in the chapter, the rest is in the general treasury. I'm sorry, but I don't understand the debate, not that I don't want to understand it. It's not that we've raised the tariffs and we haven't raised the cost of the state budget. We did, $2 billion. It's described in the explanatory memorandum. One chapter, that went to MŠMT, they have it right in the chapter, the other chapters have it in the general treasury. It's a routine procedure, it wasn't my assignment to the deputy for the budget. So I really don't understand the whole debate because I think, first of all, these people are gonna get it. And it won't be at the expense of non-claim files, I agree with you that that would be wrong, but it's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mr. Drahoslav Ryba now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u52	Mr. Secretary, I'm only looking very briefly, our Prime Minister is looking for whether or not he's gonna find it there, at the moment I don't know. The fact is, they don't have the funds yet, even if it's an increase since September 1st. Yes, they can believe that it might reach, and I want to believe it, too, but I have to say that I've seen it more than once, that it just didn't touch. On the other hand, anyone who works with money knows he can't pay them off before he has them in writing. I understand. I believe that Mrs Schillerová, through Mr President, may find that there, but at this point they do not have the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, do you report? [[Agreed.]] So please, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u54	It's just technically. When we approve, I hope we approve today, then the money can be used. You just can't use it, if you don't do an operation to borrow it from another item, it's possible to do it, but then you have to return it, so I explained the $8 billion on the cost-saving tariff. Of course, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. I do not see any further factual point, so we will continue to be duly entered into the debate. Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be next, Mrs Klára Dostálová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I am only briefly. Today, we are gathered here to raise the initial approved state budget deficit of 280 billion in the final to 375 billion. This means that we continue the massive debt of the state. Although spending is actually rising by 160 billion, the increase in tax revenues will lead to a deficit - in quotation marks only - of 95 billion. I don't want to deal with how quickly we're growing mandatory spending for the state, how it can't be financed. I would like to stop at one item, a significant item precisely in the increase, and that is almost 17 billion on the so-called austerity tariff as helping households in the energy crisis. Yes, that's the austerity tariff that Minister Síkela said 60 experts worked on for six months. The result? The flat dose to all electricity customers doesn't really matter how fixed their prices are. [[16.20 hours]] So a man who paid three hundred advances on electricity, fixed prices for two more years, received a contribution from the state of CZK 3,500. The household, which both electricity and heating, raised its reserves from 3,000 to 15,000, received a contribution of CZK 2,000. No logic. Is this how you imagine the promised effective address aid to households? You think that's responsible management? Are you satisfied, Minister Stanjur, with this result? I certainly don't. Why doesn't the government want to reform the rigid state at all? Why doesn't he want to digitize and slim the state apparatus? Within the framework of digitization, it merely proposes the establishment of other institutions to be newsstands for failed Members. This isn't really the way to do it. Yes, Minister Stanjura in the media said that we need to get back to balanced budgets and budgetary responsibility. But when? After 2025, when will there be new elections, will there be a new government and probably a government that will no longer sit in? This is useless advice, because by 2025, this government is planning high budget deficits. The budgets that this government is preparing and approving are unfinanceable, because the planned expenditures of the state are already so high that the State is unable to secure sufficient revenue for them. At this point, the Czech Republic is a state whose public debt is growing fastest from all the Member States of the European Union. Obviously, it doesn't matter to this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, too. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is reporting with a point of fact. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová? You have an actual comment to make. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u58	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. I just wanted to respond to the Minister of Finance, and I wanted to respond to him when he says it's in the general treasury, so let him support our amendments, so we can be sure the fire department and the police get it. It doesn't really matter. I mean, we're suggesting it goes off the reserve anyway, so it's gonna come out the same way. But we'll be sure that the funds, that is, when firefighters and policemen from 1. 9. increased by 10 percent, so they get them. And so when I looked at what the finance minister here showed me, there are zeroes everywhere on that page and in that table. So I keep saying, let's support these two amendments and make sure that firefighters and policemen get the money, and we don't have to argue about it here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Mrs Klára Dostálová, and then Mr Radek Vondráček, will now speak. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u60	Mr President, gentlemen, maybe even for starters, before I get to my amendments, I will remind you of a few figures, because from a revenue point of view, increased revenue is due to inflation and economic growth by 127 billion compared to our draft budget. The submitted amendment to the state budget provides for an increase in VAT collection by CZK 25.2 billion, personal income tax increases by more than CZK 10 billion, corporate tax collection increases by almost CZK 9.2 billion, social security contributions and contributions to state employment policy by CZK 9 billion. The state has increased income from ČEZ, from the Forests of the Czech Republic, funds from the European Union and from the Modernization Fund. Unfortunately, but to your (?) finding that budget doesn't respond to people's crisis-related problems, whether it's an energy crisis or housing crisis. Of course, I suppose you all expect me to take particular care of the housing crisis itself. Today we have a housing crisis that is deepened by delaying the construction law, and we are also likely to be facing a tourism crisis, because some tourist markets have completely closed down and domestic tourism will also fall as a result of a real wage decline of almost 10 percent. That is why two amendments are prepared. The first amendment of CZK 300 million is to support the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development under the Programme Support for Regional Development and Tourism. It is important to remember that we have always responded with the Ministry's subsidy programmes to avoid actually becoming white places and, at the same time, with great emphasis on not dulling our subsidy programmes. And it needs to be said that really today is a big overhang of demand especially for small school establishments, which means, whether they are little crèches, that means for those very young children or preschoolers, that is, in the form of kindergartens or elementary schools in the countryside. This programme of the Ministry for Regional Development is aimed at municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants, where these programmes for educational facilities are up to CZK 5 million. So are the little classes and all these things the country needs. On the contrary, the integrated regional operational programme addresses the projects from 5 million above, which means that if the aid is not for those small school establishments, this means that preschools in municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants, it will indeed mean a huge deficit. And what we're going to talk about is, of course, moms are calling for them to leave for work as soon as possible, so that it can be for the smallest children about one to three years, and then, of course, they can go to that kindergarten as such. Such reconstruction of kindergartens, preschool facilities, but schools also seem of course to be very important in the countryside, in order to reduce the energy intensity of individual buildings, and thus of course to help municipal budgets. The second amendment, in order to do so, let me first present a few figures on why we need to address the current housing situation. Construction offices issued 9.2% less building permits year on year. The apartments started 28.6 percent less year-on-year, and the flats were 6 percent less completed. The interest rate on really newly provided mortgage loans rose to 5.76 percent in August and the decline in mortgage volumes in the Czech Republic is not only significant against the strong 2021 year, but also in comparison to 2020 the August volume of mortgages provided is almost 60 percent. This year, from January to August this year, more than half of the mortgage market activity has fallen, and the year-on-year decline in the mortgage market by 78 percent is dramatic. Therefore, the second amendment concerns, in particular, the promotion of housing as such. Again, it is a proposal of 300 million in favour of the Ministry of Regional Development. What's the money supposed to go to first? We must realise that unfortunately it has happened that Minister Bartoš has abolished the youth housing programme, and there has also been the possibility of young people taking a very advantageous state loan for cooperative shares under this programme. We all know that young people are not going to rush into a separate mortgage today, and it is cooperative construction that could be such an engine for housing construction and housing policy not to stop in the Czech Republic as such. The second way to invest these 300 million is to use multigenerational houses. Indeed, there is a huge demand from our fellow citizens, who live alone in multigenerational houses, because that was the way those houses were built once, but unfortunately young people do not want to live with their parents. And basically, very little money would be enough, because everyone who lives in a multigenerational house knows that it would only be enough to invest in separate entrances and separate bathroom facilities and so on. It really wouldn't have to be a lot, a lot of millions, it would've taken hundreds of thousands of people to adjust these apartments or houses and offer them to young families to start living in the countryside. [[16.30 hours]] The third area where the 300 million can be invested is to start dealing with mortgages as such. And here are two options. The Ministry of Regional Development has a subsidy programme in the drawer that solves aid to the State for loans if they get above 5%. It wouldn't be about big money here, because, of course, it would be supporting the repayment of those loans over 5%, and it would certainly be a good signal for young people not to be afraid of these loans, too. Or this money can be used for multigenerational mortgages. This means the guarantee of the state that the maturity of these mortgages will be forty years and more, and I have already given this example many times, that, for example, the savings in Prague would be somewhere between CZK 5,000 and CZK 6,000 per month, which is, of course, very important money if young people today have to deal with inflation, the energy crisis and so on. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he would support, of course, the whole coalition, these amendments and send a signal to our young people that we really want to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, too. Mr Radek Vondráček will be next and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, Minister, I have no interest in a long speech. We were meeting here on that budget in 2022 at a time of unprecedented budget make-up. And I don't want to go back to that. I didn't understand the meaning at the time, I don't understand it at all today, for me it was just a political gesture and a game of numbers. But find out who's interested, my performance in the tapestry, where I dealt with the situation at the Ministry of Justice, and there I said that those who understand it see only two variations - either the budget will be amended in mid-year or September. Well, when did this amendment come to the Chamber of Deputies? She came in September, so one of those variations was really true. The budget was cut from the very beginning, it wasn't built on the real needs of the resort, and especially in the area of prison, it was built essentially on reserves, on the unused expenditures from the previous periods when I dealt with the Minister of Justice Blažek, he said that he was simply a member of some government, so he has to act accordingly. Well, I do not object to the fact that Minister Blažek is not here today, because he is in Georgia, if I am not mistaken, he is duly excused and actually my partner in the debate is the Minister of Finance. I'm going to do two things -- on the one hand, the salary thing, well, I heard the Minister's little comment here -- yes, the unused reserves, but that means it's going to show up somewhere again. This will be reflected in the maintenance of these buildings, it will be reflected in investment, it is only an internal debt that is postponed in time and which will come out one day, and it cannot escape. I just don't understand why this budget can't be done normally, why it can't be done the way it is. Why do we always have to play with numbers and in some way lie in our pockets? Do you remember, Minister of Finance, that we were talking here on the adoption of this budget about the so-called "bagatory executions"? This means that the costs of the bailiffs are paid, and I said that by then the representatives of the Justice Department on our committee, the constitutionally-legal committee, said that the costs were estimated at 700 million, you had, I believe, 270. That's what we've been talking about. I said it wouldn't be enough. Then why isn't it fixed? I expected the budget amendment to come and that the Justice Department would somehow be leveled. But I was really going through it, and I didn't find anything extra for the Justice Department, and it's just a waste to me. And I didn't even propose an amendment in that situation because it wouldn't have passed anyway. And now I have information that the money is coming, that maybe they have the means... Those courts pay the lawyers their fees, they pay the bailout bailouts here, they have other mandatory expenses. And I have information that they have until October. Then what happens? We haven't treated this in any way in this state budget amendment. Aren't they gonna pay the lawyers' fees again? We've been there before. That was, I guess, in 2009, when the defense attorneys threatened to serve executions on the state. I don't think that's the way. I just don't get it, except that the result looks better on paper, so there's no real, real reason. How are the courts budgeted to cover the increase in energy prices and basically everything? He didn't fight for any increase, at least I didn't find it anywhere in those papers. In September, after large discussions and after great pressure, it was announced that the judiciary would increase its tariffs by 10 percent, but the resort did not receive any money. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Well, I'm getting to that. So we disagree with you, so we do not understand it, and why did the Judging Union adopt a rather steep resolution at its last meeting? Why is tomorrow's press conference of the presidents of the Supreme Courts talking about the collapse of justice? That's a situation I don't remember being in law school. I was enrolled in an attorney's office in about 2003, before I was a paralegal for three years, so I had, like, 20 years, 22 years in the judiciary. There's been a salary problem the whole time I've been there to be fair, okay? I've noticed a little bit that the Minister of Kněžínek has managed to win some $5,000, otherwise the justice system is still a bite, okay? And that's, that's the basic problem, that now 10 percent have been added to the tariffs, and those judges are saying that, and that's what the President of the Judging Union, Dr. Vávra, says today in an interview, they're going to say it at the press conference. You're saying it's not true. Well, we don't understand it, the only one who understands it is the Minister of Finance. They just say: so you increase 10 percent in tariffs, but you don't give us any funds. As a result, the under-average workers, they'll do better, the average workers, they'll stay on their own, and the best and the good workers they deserve, they won't have to pay. That's totally demotivating, and that's what's bothering the judiciary the most at the moment. Again, I'm saying it's a long-term thing, but on the other hand, this crisis has exposed it. We're really in a crisis right now. And the writer has a starting salary of CZK 18,000. You just can't get anybody in Prague for that. Now, if you don't mind, I'll make a brief quote. It's really not from my head, it's the current thing, okay? This is on the official website of the Supreme Court: Despite repeated assurances from government officials that they will advocate redress, the salary assessment of the court staff has been desperately low in the long term. Starting salaries at the level of about 20,000 to 23,000 gross, not to mention their indignity, make it impossible to secure the courts on a personal basis. The average salary in justice is approximately CZK 10,000 below the average salary in the public sector. More and more quality workers are missing at all levels of the judicial system and the situation continues to deteriorate. In a number of cases, court employees leave to work for others - better paying - state forces in case they do not leave justice altogether. Those are the people you invest in. These are people who are qualified to have some qualifications, access to some often confidential information. And it's really alarming that this guy will tell you that he's going to the supermarket because he has more money there than in the Czech justice system. The representatives of the courts discussed the need for immediate redress with both Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. I'm afraid it's no good. The government, contrary to its own programming statement, refused to increase the amount of resources for the salaries of the judicial staff, despite expressed understanding of the situation of the judicial staff and the efforts of the Minister of Justice, Pavel Blažek, in order to allow the staffing of the courts. The September 10% increase in civil servants' tariffs, which was not implemented by an appropriate increase in the volume of funds, did not really raise salaries. End of quote from the pages of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic. The Presidents of the Courts warned that they could not guarantee the conduct of the courts under the current conditions. I'm not gonna use those ad absurdum arguments that people might be released from custody, because that detention procedure, when someone's taken into custody, just doesn't have anyone to sign up for the trial. But if I take it really, the development in this direction, then imagine that this situation could actually happen. Court officials were hoping that if things didn't change... or say that they have added that if the situation does not change, a number of courts can significantly limit their activities. He will comment on the matter in more detail at the Wednesday press conference. The Presidents thus reiterated the appeal that was made at the Assembly of the Judging Union in Tábor. The Prime Minister said today that budget options are very limited. So much for the quote. [[16.40 hours]] Let's get back to what we're interested in. But what is really central, and you can look at it, I have here a table that the average salary for 2021 in the so-called government sector is 43 223. The average salary of 93 employees of the Ministry of Justice in the same year is 41 336. The average salary of 317 civil servants of the Ministry of Justice in 2021 is 60 257. The average salary of employees of the Financial Administration in 2020 amounted to CZK 43,115. And then if you look at the average salary of the court staff - 32 800. There's just a completely jump difference. Justice is in a difficult crisis. And in conclusion, I would say one more thing. I don't think we're gonna argue here with you, with the democratic parties, about the fact that the justice system is the basis of the rule of law. To think that there is a rule of law without independent justice is an illusion. And at this point, the judge is talking about systemic threats to the courts in the Czech Republic. We're talking about a threat to the rule of law. So if this state has the money to accept government agents for the fight against misinformation, when a crisis information team can be created inside to deal with the moods among officials and then contact them, to conduct dialogue with them, to rear them if we have the money to limit freedom of speech in the Czech Republic, and at the same time we have no money to have independent Czech justice, we cannot have a rule of law in this situation. And I know that the situation is difficult and that we are in some unprecedented crisis, but that money must be found at the moment, because the rewards in justice are so low that the crisis means that it is leaving and the activities of the court in the Czech Republic are threatened. So much for the budget, which or the amendment to the budget, which we will approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mrs Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I really need a point of fact, because I watched the speech carefully from the lobby. And I would just like to point out, apart from, of course, the totally fatal situation, when I say it so dramatically, in connection with the evaluation of the work of the court staff, let's not forget the conditions in prison. I've been through the last 14 days as a prison in Peace, in Pankrác, of course, in Upper Slavkov. It doesn't matter. Several prisons. In all prisons, it is clear that the period to come will be very complicated. Currently, those dietary benefits for one day CZK 65, maximum 70, even if they are to be increased a little bit by a few crowns, are absolutely insufficient, and I think we are closing the perpetrators of crimes for their crimes, but they should not be in conditions that do not meet European standards. So I join the foreman, Mr Vondráček, and note that the current budget does not cover the basic costs or the necessary costs to ensure that prison sentences are served with dignity, as they refer to European standards. Of course, Minister Blažek knows this, and of course he is trying to do so, so we are happy to help him, and of course this is a matter that can be very negatively reflected in the results of such a prison sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, too, and now with priority rights, Minister Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u66	I couldn't make it in about two minutes, so I took the priority right. But I would have responded to those questions or Mr Vondráček's speech. Compared salaries, no matter what I say to the average class, it's not entirely correct. It's a pay comparison. I have a comparison in specific classes. In order to be able to compare individual institutions and their average salary, we need to see what the average pay grade is. Because that's where the education structure is reflected. I'm sure we wouldn't like it if we used the average salary in the judiciary, and we added, we calculated the average salary of the judges plus the salary of the employees, and we got a whole new number. So, from 2021, logically numbers to know and compare. Yes, 32 800, what Mr Vondráček said here is the average salary of civil servants of the court. I hope I'm saying this right. The average class is 8.9, between 8:00, or, more like, ninth grade. It's 30,637 for this type of employee. At the office of employment 31 667, at the prosecutor's office 32 738, which is actually similar to that of the court, there is a difference of CZK 20. It is 34 000 at the Czech Social Security Administration and 34 400 at the Cadastral Offices. It's just for comparison. And now that we compare the individual institutions in terms of classes 8 and 9, which are the most common ones, as it corresponds to, for example, 9th grade, and that's how I say that the ratio is distorted, in 9th grade, the Czech Social Security Administration, which had such a high number, has a 29 225 average salary. Offices 29 241, cadastral authorities 30 532, police 33 000, courts 35 346 and prosecutors 40 249. If you take the lower one, the 8th grade, then once again the highest of the comparison is at the state's attorney's office 34 422. Police about 31 000, then the courts are 30 300, and much more so are the Czech Social Security Administration 27 700, employment offices 27 800, cadastral authorities 26 100. I'm not saying this to say that they have high salaries. All I'm saying is that if we give the institution's average salary and we don't compare the average pay grade that takes into account, for example, qualifications, degree of education, it's not exactly accurate. I am glad that Mr Vondráček said that this is a long-term problem. I've had a curve here since 2011, as civil servants' salaries went up in the D.A.'s office or in the courts. And it's really the number he said. But compared to that, it doesn't look so dramatic that it's 10,000 lower than elsewhere. Well, because it's all of them. That's, if we take it, the public domain, that's including the judge's salary. No, no, the 32 800, if I take the average salary in the public sphere, there are judges in the public sphere, of course, and all those who are paid out of this money. I've been looking for it for Homeland, so it's page 43 numbered in the explanatory statement, 43 is the number, otherwise it's who looks on the Internet, page 45 of the explanatory note. In the general treasury administration is 1.3 billion crowns to increase from September for all chapters. Why wasn't it sent? Well, because the budget isn't approved yet, this amendment. So that's what I'm saying. To this increase - I am trying to communicate with Mr Vondráček, through the Vice-President. It's not true that we raised tariffs and didn't send money. It's in the explanatory memorandum. I don't understand that anyone doesn't know. Now I don't mean the MPs, but the ones involved. And it's logical that if we approve today, it'll work out in the Collection of Laws, then the President has to sign it, and then the money will be released. It's really page 43 of the explanatory memorandum. 2.2 billion is additional expenditure related to the increase in tariffs from 1 September. 900 million has a direct chapter of the Ministry of Education, while other chapters 1.3 billion are in the general treasury. Once it's approved, the money will be distributed. I hope I described it well. It doesn't mean that the sub-averages will help, the averages will stay on their own, and the above-averages will pick it up. That would be true if there was a zero. It's 1.3 billion. This corresponds to the calculations from the MPSV, how much was the increase in tariffs from 1 September in the first group. On average salaries, I say, it's not a hit-and-run, I'm not saying it's a good thing, it's just the comparison isn't exactly accurate. I had one, too. I did not receive these tables until I had more detailed documents processed after I dealt with the representatives of the courts. We'll continue to deal with them. So I'm not making it easy. [[16.50 hours]] As far as back-to-back executions are concerned, I can repeat our debate from last time. There was zero in the original draft budget, wasn't there?, for 2022. If what you're saying happens, I don't have the signals yet, that's what the government's budget reserve is for, because in my understanding of the world, it's a mandatorial expense. We have a government budget reserve. If it turns out that for 6 weeks, 7 weeks it is necessary to increase it by the end of the calendar year, we will certainly make such budgetary arrangements there. It is not possible for the State to fail to pay its obligations. I'm sure we agree on that. We won't argue about that. And we certainly agree that the democratic state needs independent justice. And if we want to somehow systemically raise those salaries, that means some way of jumping, then we can get ready for that. We need to be able to justify it, we need to tell ourselves why one group, and I'm not questioning it, we're adding it to the others, because the moment we do that, logically, the representatives of the other groups will come, they'll have a table here, and they'll ask why the Czech Social Security Administration is lower in this grade than here or elsewhere. That we need to get the money there, that's right. We are discussing this with the Minister of Justice. We haven't finished the negotiations yet, but we will continue to do so. That's all I have to say. And I'm sorry for all the numbers. In case of interest, I'm able to resend the tables to the comparison so we can continue the debate. And I'm saying, with all the bogus executions, if necessary, it's gonna come out of the government's budget reserve, because it's gonna run out of the state anyway, and the state has to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First of all, Mr Radek Vondráček and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the constructive response. Let me tell you something about the justice. They have a table, I have a table from the Municipal Court in Prague, there is a starting salary of 14 650 crowns, but in the fourth grade it is 16 200. She's just gonna get in, and the court's gonna have to settle it with other means. Why in God's name is he always... [[Secretary Stanjura's notes off the microphone.]] He gets, the worker gets a guaranteed salary, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u69	Mr. Secretary, I'll ask you for a microphone next time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u70	But in the payroll table, the fare, he gets less. The best is a paid judge candidate and assistant judge. He's got a salary of 30,000. The guaranteed wage is 29,400. The only one seems to be getting CZK 600 above the tariff, but most of the lower categories are 5, 6, 7, 8th grade, so the court is actually calling them from other sources to have a guaranteed salary. And I don't think that employee structure is so much different in terms of education and so on from other authorities, because even with those misguided workers, you just have to have quality people and you have to have them educated somehow. If it's a mandatorial expense, you bagate execution, why don't you just have it there? Why is it freaking out again? You were dealing with the judges. Then why don't the judges know? Why doesn't anyone know? You say it's in the general treasury, but tomorrow is the press conference on the collapse of Czech justice! That's a complete failure of communication! And I have one last reminder. The 10 percent that's added to the tariff, then it's taken from the rewards. I am a member of the Chamber of Deputies Committee. The exact same thing is here in the Chamber of Deputies, and these people deserve a raise too. So I'd like to hear the assurance from you that what you're saying about justice and the interior of the House of Deputies also concerns the staff, because 10 percent have joined here, but as far as I know, the chancellor said he doesn't have any more money for it, and that's your chancellor. [[Time warning]] He's not our chancellor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u71	Time! There. The next is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and the Minister after her. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u72	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. So the Minister of Finance told us that the explanatory memorandum on page 43 states that there will be an increase in salaries. But we don't approve of the explanatory notes. It is, of course, complementary. I want you to show me in the chart because we're gonna approve, okay? And I don't understand one thing, if, then, why can't it be in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior? I don't understand why the Ministry of the Interior chapter couldn't be exactly the 10% increase. So when I look at the chapter of the General Treasury, the cross-cutting indicator of employees' salaries - the other salaries are zero. I don't see that number anywhere. Of course, what I can do is I can call or ask your deputy, but of course, the reason message is part of it, but we approve the numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u73	Thank you and now the Minister with a point of fact, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u74	First of all, Mr Vondráček. We weren't discussing the 10% increase with the judge. There wasn't a single word in that meeting, so he couldn't explain it to them, if we understood each other. If they ask me, I'll tell them. But we were discussing something else. It was at their request. The topic was what you actually described, a long-term unsatisfactory level of salaries for these employees. That was the theme when we were equipped with tables, graphs. We've been explaining our positions so we can match our numbers, because every time we have different numbers, then we can't make a deal. I don't blame them, it wasn't the subject of negotiations. If it comes down to it, we'll just tell each other. Why isn't it in the chart? Because it's always been done that way. Okay, well, I'll get it worked out next time. I asked. It's always been done that way. If there's a problem, then if we ever do that next step, we'll write it down in chapters. That's actually it. I don't think we can budget by having 100, 120, 140 billion unused claims. I think that's wrong budgeting. That's why I'm glad if those unused entitlements are involved in the budget, and that number is going down. I still understand when it's unused, it's under obligation. This means that the performance is a contract, but it is not in the given year and continues the performance. But we also have long-term budget money that isn't enough to invest, it's not under a commitment, and I think it's distorting the state's management. So in the long run, I'm going to try to make sure that the unused expenses without contractual collateral don't really exist, so it's never going to be zero, but it's going to go down. That's all. Every time I ask, "Why do you have that?" - because somebody always took it from us in the past. But that's no argument, if we understand each other. This is the problem of unused claims that are not under obligation, or under contract.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u75	Thank you for keeping time. First of all, a factual point - Mrs Válková Helena. [[Mrs Schiller is also applying for the floor.]] A fact note takes precedence over a priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u76	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, and for the heads-up. You're right, of course. I just wanted to ask the Minister if he knows that one of the working bodies of the Constitutional and Legal Committee works here, it's a subcommittee on justice. We're in contact with justice officials. We already had a representative of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the representatives of the Regional Courts. And it came to us, from the repeated meetings with the justice authorities, that they are mostly dissatisfied, and that is for the absent Minister of Justice, with the lack of strategy, she was already missing in my time in 2014-15, I was not enough to introduce her there, and of course, the strategy depends on the costs. One example for all that comes to you, of course, and I just want to point it out here within two minutes. These are the permanent monthly costs of maintaining, updating, managing electronic systems, which currently exist in the Czech Republic in the courts, as we have been informed, 53. Can you imagine how much it will cost you, Minister? So that's the first thing. And the other. We are nearing the end of the year, and I think, and I would very much like to be wrong, that populist questions such as: we should freeze salaries for judges. And I'm warning you that some of the lawsuits are already far enough behind those frozen salaries for 2022. I wouldn't like to see what I was dealing with in January 2015. I remember it well. We paid hundreds of millions back then. So just a heads-up that justice is logically going to ask more and more of you, because it's debt from the past, which is now multiplying by the current situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u77	So good evening. With priority rights, Madam President? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm always stressed when I see those two minutes counting. I agree - I'm going to do something else, but I agree to reduce consumption. I tried, too, it was a fight, a fight, and we moved on. If you pulled it out, you'll notice we've moved it. Now, I'm gonna give you a little hint that the $30 billion is gonna end up there, too, in those consumed claims, but, okay, I already said that, so I'm not gonna say it again. I just don't want to say the advice, the memory, the retrospective, of course, I've been discussing, I've also been approached by the Attorney General, the judges' representatives, the justice with the salaries, and those salaries have been bad for a long time. I had a chart drawn up back then, I'm sure there'd be somewhere on the financials, it was in 2018. And that's when I really had these categories compared -- and you're right, they always have to compare pears to pears, the pay grade. And I actually remember that the lowest salaries, if we compare it correctly like this, were in the justice system, they were writers. It was really dramatic in the courts there. Then there were some of these attorneys at the D.A.'s office, then they were labor offices, compared to the three, and then it was the Czech Social Security Administration. And then, historically, we did it once, and it can't be done regularly, but we did it that year, that we increased those salaries by a percentage difference. That means, these categories here were 15 %, then the next category was 13 %, then it took 10 % and so on so that we had a little bit of, of course, that the tooth was so big that it couldn't match everything in that one year, but we did, too, and maybe on those graphs that you have there, you could see that we just jumped in that year 2018. So just an experience that it is not - that is to say, in support of the fact that it is not a problem this year, but it is a long-term problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u79	Thank you very much. Next for the debate is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Mr Kettner will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u80	Good evening, almost evening, it's dark. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to begin by thanking Minister Bax for waiting until the last moment, but I can calm him down, and I will not be aggressive today, and I will not attack him too much. I would just like to sum up all the three readings that we have done here in connection with the state budget amendment for this year, especially in the field of culture, because this is the area that I am of course very happy to do, and I am very happy to discuss some issues with the Minister, and so far we have not been able to find common ground. And it still seems as far as my amendments and my colleagues are concerned that we may not have found the support there. But I'll talk about it later. I would like to start by repeating what I said at first and second reading that the budget presented for this year is a bit of a fairy tale about how we took the billion at the beginning and returning it to the end of the billion, with the fact that it is not entirely comfortable for me and my colleagues to redistribute it into those chapters. We have increased the amount of the contribution to this chapter, or we will increase the amount of more than 600 million crowns. It looks very interesting, however, of which CZK 314 million is a fine to the National Heritage Institute, so it leaves or leaves, hopefully, only CZK 280 million. And it is an amount that I certainly - and I hope it will - will cover the increased costs caused by the energy crisis, but also by inflation, which will, of course, be reflected in the operation of the contribution organisations established by the Ministry of Culture. And that is why I and my colleagues have proposed an increase in the contribution organizations, which are set up by the Ministry of Culture, by CZK 200 million, because I am convinced that how households are starting to save will be reflected, for example, in the entry into these contribution organizations, and they will start having problems with their set budgets, and the Ministry of Culture as a founder will have to bail out these deficits, just as it has been happening for several years at the National Theatre for example. So that's why I put forward a proposal for an increase of CZK 200 million in this chapter. Unfortunately, I have not received any support from the Committee on Budgets, and I am therefore taking this opportunity to call on you, and I ask you to support this proposal, because, although, of course, in the large amount of the entire state budget in terms of expenditure, it is a small amount, but it can help quite significantly the contribution organisations set up by the Ministry of Culture, and paradoxically, it can give comfort to the Minister so that he can deal with some things more quickly. So that is this amendment. And the other one, which I have put forward to compensate for the impact of the energy crisis and inflation on the theatres, orchestras that may not be established by the state, however, the support deserves to be given to the difficult period that awaits us, which we are now experiencing, and will survive for a few more years, and in some way be able to continue their activities, which, of course, is respectable. I was just discussing with my colleague from our club, who divides the contribution organizations established by the Ministry of Culture into the Prague ones, in quotation marks. I explained to him that it is not only about the Prague ones, but that the Ministry of Culture has its contributions outside of Prague, however, the other bodies I was talking about a moment ago are more in the region than they are in Prague, and I therefore asked for an increase in this chapter by CZK 200 million. I haven't even met with the support from the budget committee here. And even here I will call on all of you, even though you may not have the support of the Minister of Finance to support this amendment, because it is indeed a conservation, continuity and an important factor in the field of culture, that is, in the area of the State Support Programme for Professional Theatre and Permanent Professional Symphony Orchestras and Choirs. Otherwise, when it comes to increasing the next one, I'm going to give the Minister a little more credit, but not too much, that's an increase in the film incentives, where, of course, it's right that we've increased them. What we haven't agreed on in the long run is a racket, but that's our song that we're going to be playing all the time, because it's about the opinion that I have a little different about this because I think there's another way to deal with it. However, I hope for me that - and now I will sharpen for next year, I have looked at the draft budget for next year, which is more favourable for culture, but there will come quite a large part of the European funds, I am glad that they will be involved in culture. But I'm sure that's where I'll be interviewing the Minister when we have the first, second and third reading of the state budget for next year. So I want to thank you on this way, and I hope that you will support the two amendments that I have been talking about here, which unfortunately I do not have the support of the Committee on Budgets, and I wish that we should put aside the policy here and support the culture, because it certainly deserves it, even for one of us or for some of our colleagues, it may not be important, but the area of culture is for me, and I think that it deserves that support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u81	Before I give the floor to Mr Kettner, who is duly registered, Minister Baxa will speak with priority rights. Before he gets to the counter, I'll read two apologies. Mr Babiš apologizes from 17:00 for work reasons, and Mr Kolář also apologizes from 17:00 - for family reasons. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond briefly to Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's speech. I am just saying, my dear colleague, through the Vice-President, that I will probably not be at first reading on a foreign business trip, but I will discuss the draft state budget next year with you anytime after that, because I consider it really important that we discuss these matters together - or differently, but in any event. [[17.10 hours]] As regards the draft budget for 2023, on what has fallen here, I want to say one more thing to the European funds. It is not obvious that the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture contains the money. The National Recovery Plan is not eligible and we can draw from it, or individual sectors, resorts, only if it is prepared so that the challenges can be drawn out and drawn out. In my ministry in January this year, I found that in such a state of preparation no money from the National Recovery Plan would have been received, and it would have taken (?) A few months before I and my team managed to get the National Recovery Plan back on track, and now the challenges are actually being drawn up gradually and the most important part will be next year, including a large amount of funding for cultural infrastructure in the regions. As far as the film incentives are concerned, I would like to reiterate that this year's CZK 570 million, that is, the amount that is in the draft budget or in the draft budget amendment for this year, plus 600 million in the draft budget in 2023, will allow us to open up a system of film incentives. This is the most important, fundamental, substantial report, because it has simply come to light that the system's film incentives have not been addressed in recent years, that we have now had to stop the system, and thanks to this government-supported double-dot, we will be able to re-start the film incentives. At the same time, legislative change is being prepared. Now there's 150 million of that cap of the so-called ceiling. We want to rework the system overall, and it is not yet certain that this ceiling will be in that amendment to the Audiovision Act. We'll see, it's not necessarily a permanent thing, but I think it has its reasons. With regard to the support of the contribution organisations, I think that both in this year's draft amendment and next year's proposal, it is clear that we really care about the organisation going through this difficult period. Of course, even in our contributions, it is logical to save as it is to save everywhere, but let me just remind you that our contribution organizations fall or fall into that price cap. That's important. This means that they will also be able to draw energy sources from 1 January at discounted prices, adding some form of further support, and I think that this will allow us not to say problem-free but good functioning and fulfilment of cultural services. I also propose an increase in the subsidy programme for regional cultural institutions next year. This year there were 300 million crowns in the approved budget, I am still from unused expenses, when it was very difficult to choose who to actually contribute or who to help, so I decided to contribute to these regional orchestras and theatres, so there was 350 million crowns for this year and next year it is proposed to add 100 million this year, which means 400. So we think about these organizations, too. I think that the vast majority of their founders show the goodwill of aid at present, but so generally I say that this double national increase, from the unused expenditure for this year and the already proper increase for 2023, is at the same time a challenge and a gentle nudge for the founders to see that the state, although not its organisation, is ready to help, and therefore that is certainly an impulse for them to make their support very significant. So I just want to conclude by saying that we are certainly in agreement on these ways of support. I think this year's proposal is balanced, meaning where our attention is drawing. For next year, I would say a very optimistic draft budget. If not at first reading, I will certainly perform at second reading to comment properly, and I think it is clear that the government is thinking of culture, and the overall proposed increase in the Ministry of Culture budget for 2023 by more than 20 percent is clear quantitative evidence of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u83	Mr Kettner will now appear, Mr Hendrych will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u84	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the members of the government present, I am here at the counter to appeal once again to support my two amendments, which did not go through the Committee on Budgets, which, on the one hand, did not surprise me, on the other hand, very disappointed. As I said here once before, we should be here for the citizens. We are not specialists in everything that is happening in the Czech Republic and what the Czech Republic needs, but rather we should listen to people from the field and experts. My amendment - first of all, I will focus on the so-called other non-investment expenditures that have already been cut in the classic budget. And I'm in contact with the experts. A lot of my friends are elementary school principals, teacher. And he really is the problem. Indeed, it is a wonder that we often do not give ear to the experts. I personally trust the experts. When I go to the doctor, he's graduated, he's had many years of practice, and when he tells me to take this blue pill regularly, I'm definitely not gonna argue with him that I don't want the blue pill that I want pink or purple because blue evokes certain negative things in me, so that someone doesn't misinterpret it. No, I really believe those doctors. And we should also trust the pedagogical public and the experts. My amendment was directly supported by the Education Chamber, the Education Union, the Union of School Associations of the Czech Republic, the Association of Primary School Directors, the Association of Apprentice Equipment of the Czech Republic, even the Confederation of Industry and Transport. I don't know how much more information you want to understand that this is a real and real problem. It's really the last time, because it's really the last chance. We push Czech education into a corner and the question is how much more education can take. I think we're really getting to the edge. By the way, I would also like to take advantage of this possibility of being at the counter: information has even begun to spread that, in order to get this money for one part of education, I want to take it to another part of education. That, I beg you, is not it? I'm not going to correct one iniquities by causing another. I'm really not gonna be playing some judge in this school that's gonna say, "This part of education is more necessary than any other." No, we need working education as a whole. And the whole school deserves our support. In conclusion, I appeal once again to you, let us give our hearing to professionals in the field who actually work in the field, move, and I think that they know best what is really needed in this segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u85	Yes. The next party to the general debate is Mr Hendrych, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I will return briefly to my amendment, which I have read here at second reading and which concerns the addition of half a billion crowns to the housing allowance. I will return a bit to the procedure that actually followed my amendment because I did not understand the attitude of Minister Jurečka, who is not present here at the moment, who filed, even the day after me, a substantially identical amendment increased by 35 million, but did not differ very much. I gave it a day earlier, and in addition, he basically tabled an amendment to a total of 7 billion in Chapter 313. I think it's a very unconventional, very non-standard procedure. I don't understand it to this day. To this day, no one has explained why it was not known in August when the material was distributed to Members. I do not understand why there was no mention of this at first reading, nor do I understand why the Committee of Budgets did not actually discuss it. And what I do not understand at all is that the Minister did not make time during the second reading at the time and did not speak before the other Members, rather than me, and did not clarify and explain the whole issue. I think that's very strange and I don't get it at all. [[17.20 hours]] However, we agreed that this sub-chapter needs to be strengthened by approximately CZK 0.5 billion for the housing allowance, because the amount does not correspond to the increased assumption for its drawing. But I'm gonna stop by here for a minute, because basically the Ministry of Social Affairs itself predicts that the number of applications will increase from some 20, maybe 25 percent of the beneficiaries to 30 percent. It's kind of like it's consistent, the assumption I calculated myself with my assistants, and what, in the end, basically, what the Ministry of Labour has achieved, however, we're at a very trivial number. Thirty percent of the right is very few, and I'm here to tell you that this social policy tool is not going to work the way you imagined it would, in fact, be one of the key tools to help low-income families within your Umbrella, and I've been pointing that out several times this year. I came from foreign experience, from foreign studies. I talked about it during the second reading. And basically, my hypothesis came true, which I'm not at all happy about, but unfortunately, it is. I dare even say to myself, say one of your own hypotheses that you knew, or the Department of Labour knew it, I'm not saying that all ministers, not everyone is an expert on everything. But you knew that by the time you started promoting this instrument, it was from the knowledge of the experience and knowledge of the very scientific literature that it would not work, and that therefore you would de facto save resources in the state budget. And basically, you were just pretending that it would work and that this instrument would help. Obviously, according to the current drawdown and apparently the allocated amounts, this is not the case. And I will, of course, follow this further and see what the overall evaluation will actually be in the state final account. With this contribution to housing and other social benefits, even if it is not an official terminus technicus, there are other issues involved, that is the issue of basically functioning, the actual functioning of the Labour Office. Who follows the media, or is interested, which is definitely better, is interested in this in detail through the statements of the workers themselves, whether in the ranks or in the leaders of the Labor Office, so he knows that the labour authorities are overloaded, that the labour authorities are suffering from high fluctuations. It comes both from the overload of the workers and from the really very low wages. And we are getting into a situation that is already being described by the media today, that the labour authorities are not following up on some social benefits - and this specifically applies to the housing contribution - within legal deadlines. We specifically asked the Social Policy Committee the representatives of the Ministry, the Deputy Ministers, and the Director of the Labour Office about this. They basically confirmed it to us more or less. And this, of course, is very wrong. It is not possible to wait three months to complete the benefit. They even leak information that some specific people have to do until the contribution is finished and before they really get it into their account, that they even have to go into debt. This is, of course, very bad, and that is what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs should focus on. Focus on making the labour authorities work more efficiently. And I think that without investing in human resources in this institution, that's not going to happen in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. Before my colleague Nacher gets the floor, I'm gonna make one apology. At 18 o'clock, Mrs Jelínková apologises for no reason. And now, my colleague Nacher. Mr Brabec will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear government, or rather, Minister, there is no one else here, colleagues and colleagues, I will take a few notes and have a few questions if the Minister can answer them, I would like to. [[Stanjuro]] I'd almost say I'd even be happy. One. We're actually discussing here, they say that the state budget is the most important law of the year, unfortunately the ministers aren't really here except the finance minister, which is annoying. The MPs aren't here. There's a half-empty O.R. Since yesterday, when I answer to the press, there's been some rumor that maybe somebody's gonna build it. And I'm saying that not that the state budget, I can strongly disagree with it, but I'm sure I won't obsess it. And neither does anyone. We've still got the last six, including me, six performers, it'll be over in a minute. Let's see how the vote goes. We may have a strong view for and against it, but I do not think that, in principle, the discussion of the state budget is being sharpened. So I don't know where the rumor came from that the MPs aren't here, the ministers aren't here, and I'm sorry, the first thing. Two. We're actually discussing the budget this whole year for this year. Let's just say that. I've been taking notes here, I'll show the Minister that I have them in writing, I don't read anything, so I've been taking notes that we've been discussing all this year. So, in the beginning, the decision on the budget provisional was that the proposed one did not approve. Then there were three readings, a new state budget, and then there was a debate about health insurance and a reduction in the contribution of 14 billion for state insured people. And I've always said in that discussion that this is actually a continuation of negotiations on the state budget. And then actually, this print is 284. So let's just say that we're actually discussing the state budget this whole year. Well, if you remember, I was in the first discussion - in other words, here in the air as the first question that it was almost worth not having the budget provisional and approving the budget of the previous government, because you could actually change it like that, like you're actually changing your own budget right now. Well, I've already said in February or March that I think you're going to have to come up with a novel in six months and change the state budget for 2022 anyway. I remember saying that because I was standing there when I said that, I remember my words, you can look at the log. And my words came up. So I'm not the general here after the battle, what he would say now, if you'd listened to us then, even if we didn't say so - no, I said so. And now my words have come up, because in some of those parameters, the budget was no longer realistic for me at the time. And, of course, we didn't know the development, I'm not saying that, but I said -- and look up the log -- we'll meet here in six months, and the minister will present a new budget. The third point - what is the target? The goal is to help people, as you have said, and how you present it in the media. Then I'd like to ask you about the state budget construction you came up with. I want to understand. Because the government will present an amendment to the state budget for 2022, but at the same time, the amendments with which the Ministry of Finance, to which they agree, will only be tabled by coalition MPs after the government comes in with the budget. And that there are no tiny sums, is that in total it's 45 billion. One amendment is from Marian Jurečka, which is worth 7 billion, and one is from fellow Adamec and others, that is the 38 billion - 30 and 8. A total of 45 billion. This means that the Government will come up with a proposal to which coalition Members will then read the amendments. In other words, let me ask myself a question, and it is a substantive question, I hope the Minister will answer me, isn't it an attack: Why didn't the government come up with the changes that would already contain the 45 billion or part of them? Fourth point. You stress the new expenditures, I understand that, and I am ready to vote in favour of these things, even for the opposition's amendments, and for the coalition's amendments, but you are no longer stressing the inflation revenues that this budget is higher. That is also fair to say, it is some 125, 127 billion crowns. It's like a note, it's not a question. [[17.30 hours]] Fifth remark. The government says it's going to help entrepreneurs, it's too late for me. Again, it's not like I'm a general here after the battle, I've been saying it all along. So I would like to ask if you really think, if we approve, that the 30 billion that are going to support entrepreneurs are really going to run out this year. And that it will not be so that either the whole amount or part of it, or a significant part of it, a smaller part, it doesn't matter, it will be transferred and entrepreneurs will not draw it until 2023. If you're really sure that all you have to do is manage it so that entrepreneurs will draw the money in total of 30 billion in 2022, that's by the end of this calendar year. And then it's more like a political remark, which is how I'd end it today. We're talking about helping people, businessmen, it's changing some parameters. I did the math. I cannot shake the impression that, in addition to the assistance here, this is also a lot about the policy, and that you are very happy to stress that the opposition is friendly to the coalition at this particular time, but it does not work the other way around, because when I looked at it, neither of the 28 opposition amendments has an agreed opinion. I do not believe that all 28 opposition amendments are so poor that they do not deserve the support of the Ministry of Finance and Coalition Members. So we have actually seen a disagreeable position 28 times or without an opinion on the Committee on Budgets, because there was not enough coalition Members. I'm a little worried that this policy is going to overwhelm the real substance and content at the time of emergency. I understand that the budget is a high-level policy, a normal budget in normal times, is adopted in October for the whole of November, December, we know this for the whole following year. And most of the time, the coalition is swaying the opposition on this issue, it's always been that way. I would not complain, we sometimes supported each other here with the small things I remember, I voted in favour of some of Jakub Janda's proposals during the last parliamentary term as a coalition MP. But I understand it's high ground policy. But this isn't a standard time, it's not a standard budget, it's not a standard discussion. This is an amendment to the state budget for this year at an extraordinary time. And I think she deserves more than 28 proposals being 20 times 8 negative positions. So much. I don't know if it's a question, it doesn't even make sense to hear the answer, unless the minister answers me, but it's more of a treat. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u89	Yes. The next will be Mr Brabec, Mr Rais will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, fellow ministers, when I look at those empty benches, I think of my favorite story, the obušek out of the bag, and I would say 'it is a government that the world has not seen'. There really aren't many left. However, I must say, and I say this objectively, that in the case of my counterpart, the situation is really more complicated, because, as we know, Minister Hubáčková resigned and the new Minister, not yet the new Minister Hladík, is the question of whether she will come at all. So I probably wouldn't have a partner here to discuss anyway. But I want to say to my things - I will really be very brief, and unlike other colleagues who say they will be brief, and they are not. I had two suggestions at first reading on the chapter of the environment. One was about strengthening the chapter, which we all probably know under the name Green Savings or New Green Savings, and here it really happened that - for what I would like to thank - this chapter was strengthened, originally there was CZK 150 million, and I originally wanted to increase it by CZK 350 million to CZK 500 million. This is actually about public buildings and some energy savings. So there was an increase, if I am not wrong about CZK 300 million to CZK 450 million, which is definitely a shift, and I think a shift to good. That is why my amendment or the subject I gave at first reading came true. And then there was another one, which unfortunately did not come true, but Minister Hubáčková promised that it would be dealt with from another amount, that was the Landscape Care Program. So there is CZK 150 million and my proposal was CZK 300 million. Since these are very interesting events in the countryside, there are hundreds of them, they are events that are undoubtedly important also for municipalities, for a number of organizations, associations, associations and so on. Fighting drought, planting trees. So there remained 150 million crowns, but it was promised that these actions would be implemented by the National Recovery Plan, and perhaps even more. While there, as we know, is a VAT problem, but it was promised that it would also be dealt with. This means that one of these two proposals was more or less fulfilled, for which I am glad, and the other was promised that by way of a detour, the money would get there. We'll see. I think the debate on next year's budget will be far more interesting from the point of view of the environment. First of all, the interesting topic of the Modernization Fund and so-called 50 billion Czechs, as the classic says, where to get the money from. But I'm saying, that's the story of the next budget. So that's the environmental chapter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u91	In the general debate, Mr Rais is also signed in, and Mr Metnar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u92	Dear Vice-President of the House, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would first like to remind the Government's programming statement, which we discussed here about a year ago, where emphasis is placed on improving the quality of teaching, research and cooperation with practice and a lot of take-off sentences, and I would try to compare it with that reality. Even then I pointed out that there are few numbers and that there are many flowery phrases. One of the few numbers there is that the government will ensure an increase in the average wage for pedagogical workers in the Czech Republic to 130 percent of the current state of employment. Of course, it is also necessary to include not only teachers but also various administrative workers, technicians and so on. They forgot about it then, so we have to count on it too. I think it would be appropriate to recall how she approached the wage problem of the previous government of Andrej Babiš. There it can be clearly said that basically what was promised was fulfilled. The programme statement, which everyone can read, will increase their salaries to 150 per cent for teachers in terms of 2017 has done so. The current government is moving away from its programming statement. You can say it's my personal guess, it's not. I found a pretty nice publication on the Internet from my colleagues Münich and Smolka. They have the Teacher's Plate publication in 2021: The peak reached and what next?, where it is said that basically the predictions they have there show that they don't have the 130 percent that they're moving away, they just go down below the 130 percent. But it's not all over yet, so I guess you could say it's gonna be okay. But what I see in that budget certainly doesn't match the idea of a 130 percent increase in wages. [[17.40 hours]] On that general point, in those general declarations, I would stop at one thing, that is the share of the expenditure of the Ministry of Education chapter on gross domestic product in 2022, which is about 3.48, while the objective of representation and universities, and it is basically the objective of previous governments, was that it was necessary to achieve at least about 0,5 percent of GDP. The Czech lecturers' conference and basically the Higher Education Council are aware, which I think are the two most respected representatives in education, have pointed out the current situation, which is also due, of course, to the rise in energy prices, but also to the government's wage policy, so they point out that there are relatively large amounts missing, namely, for the next years they are writing about 5 billion crowns, then it has increased. These amounts aren't covered for this year, this deficit. That is why we have tabled two amendments, together with my colleague Ivo Vondrák and my colleague Fridrich, when we draw attention to the fact that we are essentially more or less asking that at least part of the missing funds be transferred from the government reserves, in two options - either on salaries and energy only, that is the one option, in the other version it is in terms of energy. Here I would appeal - of course the government's statement is negative, as has been said many times here, that the government is simply not erasing with us, and I have no choice but to ask for support, perhaps someone normal, reasonable, who is from universities, will be aware of the situation that is there, that money is missing for science and research and that money is missing for salaries. I'm saying, who else would be more competent than the College Council and the Czech Lecturer Conference? I don't know anybody like that. Financial scissors are opening, not only within universities, but also regional education, so many of my colleagues are thinking basically that they will pass - mostly assistants, assistants, that they will transfer to regional education, specifically to secondary schools, where the conditions are more financially advantageous for them personally. On this occasion, I would like to express my support for the amendment of my colleague Kettner, who dealt with the movement of ONIV from the hands or the environment of secondary schools. Those directors, on the one hand, we're talking about how they're supposed to be managerial, basically how they're supposed to function, and on the other hand, we're taking away the only financial or one of the few financial instruments that really allows them to manage high schools. So I'd sum it up. On the one hand, the government's programming statement, the high priority of education, the promotion of science and research, the links to industry, on the other hand, the reality is that essentially the share of the expenditure of the Ministry of Education chapter on GDP is below average and decreasing. I am concerned that the government does not actually respect recommendations from the representation of universities, which I think are the authorities that are apolitical and who really want education to be of good quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u93	Thank you very much. With a point of fact, the President is signed in Excellent. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister. By your means, I just want to respond to what Mr. Rais said. As far as the government's commitment is concerned, you may have misjudged it or linked it to what was your government's commitment in the past period, that you were really referring to that initial state of accession to the government. But in our case, that's not the case. If you look at our government's programming statement, it's the criterion to which we relate to the salary of teaching staff, so that's 130 percent of the average gross wage in the state. So that's how it is. And what I want to stress is that this commitment does not change anything, but that commitment is given to the end of this government's term of office. So, of course, it is also working with this in the context that the situation is not, of course, optimal, I do not deny it, you are right that even with regard to how these salaries are growing today, there is stagnation here, but the commitment that our government has given, so it continues. But as I'm saying, it wasn't supposed to be filled this year either. So here, please, let's be correct about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Rais is making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u96	Because my colleague told me that once before, so I looked into the statement, it actually says average monthly wages. You're here plus minus a year and it's done? It's not done. That's what I'm pointing out. You didn't put it there, that it would be over. It's just not done today. So that's what I said. And frankly, I can repeat that scissors are being opened essentially between - let me not make a difference in education - between industry and education, there we are both on the same boat and we have to deal with this in some way. If we really want to move the system, we're gonna move it with our heads, not our legs. So there's a need to put emphasis on education and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u97	Thank you. We are now returning to the general debate, Mr Metnar is signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u98	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to say that the Government of the ANO movement has proposed and approved a budget for the Defence Department for 2022 of CZK 93.5 billion. The current government reduced the budget and approved a budget of CZK 89.1 billion in March this year. The share of the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence's chapter against GDP thus has a declining trajectory from 1.4 percent to 1.3 percent, which I see as a bad political signal from the Czech Republic to NATO partners in the current security situation. When this year's budget was approved, I tabled two amendments to return these shortened funds to the defence budget. The reason for the return of funds to the budget was that these funds should be used quickly and efficiently in the framework contracts concluded or, where appropriate, speed up the implementation of framework contracts with regard to the operational needs of the military. As an example, I mentioned the use of framework contracts for ammunition, equipment components and others. In addition, I suggested that our government then approved valorisation of soldiers' salaries of CZK 1,400. When I return to that March, my amendments were not accepted and therefore there was no increase in the Ministry of Defence's budget for 2022 or in this amendment. That is why I have decided not to support this amendment of the budget for this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u99	Yes, Mr. Metnar. Next in line for the general debate is Mr Kott, Mr Koten will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Members of the Government, dear colleagues, very briefly I would like to comment on two amendments, House documents 1283 and 1282, which I, together with my colleagues, President Schillerová, Karel Tureček and David Pražák, put into the system. Both amendments concern the Ministry of Agriculture. Amendment 1283 concerns a sum of 10 million, and it is that funds have been allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture for association activities, which actually solves to some extent clearly highly professional periodicals, which help members of both the Czech Beekeeper Union and the Czech Moravian Hunting Union, and to some extent these funds also include training of instructors, test commissioners, where the federal organisations are to some extent bailing out the work of the ministry, which would have to carry out this activity anyway. So that's one amendment. The second amendment is by a larger amount, it is CZK 1 billion, and these funds should be used for water and sewer infrastructure, as I have already defended this here at second reading. I believe that this year's weather was relatively favourable, to some extent the wells that were actually exhausted in recent years and where we were forced to supply the various municipalities or local parts of the cities with tanks are currently flowing there. However, I think it is not a political issue, but it is a matter that we should be dealing with across the political spectrum. And since some of the projects are already being finalized, some of them are even issued building permits, I believe that since the funds have also been allocated here and the state budget has fallen out of here, we should return the funds to at least these two areas at the Ministry of Agriculture. I would like to ask you to support our amendments, knowing that we are actually returning the funds to the Ministry, because they have already been allocated there, as I said before. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u101	Yes. Next in line is Mr Koten, who I give the floor to. And the last one entered in the general debate will be prepared so far, which is Mr Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, let me introduce and ask for the support of my amendment to improve security on our eastern border with Slovakia. We are all aware that there is now a relatively large group of police officers who work there in some three-shift operation and need to make work easier. My amendment is that there is an increase in the amount of state budget reserves for the Ministry of the Interior, on the purchase of special equipment capable of detecting on passing vehicles the number of people who are there, even in the cargo space and the like, without the vehicle being stopped and controlled. Of course, the means, if used in this direction, will increase the efficiency of border controls in a huge way, thus reducing the necessary number of police officers to serve on this border. And I think it will be for the best, because police officers are currently unfortunately lacking in the classic actions that police have to deal with in their regions, and therefore they are actually taking policemen away from their work, which they are supposed to do, whether it is an accident service, i.e. commuting to accidents. Now it happens that the police have to drive up to 130 kilometers to investigate a traffic accident, and this, of course, extends the time of drivers who are waiting to solve a traffic accident. So let me ask you, therefore, to support the amendment that is being conducted in the system under number 1337, and thank you in advance for the support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. Another and so far the last one entered into the general debate is Mr Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u104	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to follow up on the discussion of Professor Rais's colleague, who was concerned with the increase in the budget for universities in particular. I'll be brief and factual. We realize that the 4.2 billion that schools need have no chance of getting this year. I know, and I firmly believe that the situation will change a little in the next year. However, allow me to ask you to support at least CZK 800 million, which will help universities to cope with an increase in the costs of energy, which are what they are. I want to ask you again, because I know and hear it from all sides, and not just from our schools in Ostrava, but from others, that otherwise they will have to shorten semesters, they will have to limit teaching. If that's what we want, please, let's not accept it. But if we want to maintain quality, and we know that this is nothing simple, I would ask you once again to make sure that the 800 million crowns, which in this budget are not nearly as important a item as the others, are to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u105	So far, this has been the last in the order of entry into the general debate. This is Mrs Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have, of course, also examined the information that has been given by the Minister of Finance that the funds concerning the 10% increase since 1 September are therefore in the general treasury administration. So I still don't understand why they can't be in individual chapters, because, as I've been told, then the different departments will have to ask and they will have to take budgetary measures. So I think it's probably a good idea that if firefighters and police officers have increased by 10 percent since September 1, they should have it right in that chapter. And if they have it right there, they're gonna have to draw it and they're not gonna have to wait for some kind of approval or some kind of budget measure. Because I think even though the amount in the general treasury is there, it's still not sure if the resorts are gonna get it. They're gonna have to ask for it, and then they're gonna have to take that budgetary measure. Therefore, once again, I would like to call on the Minister of Finance to support our amendments, because if they are supported, the ministries, such as the Ministry of the Interior, will have the funds in quotes right away and can give them to those firefighters and those police officers in quotation marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Therefore, I see no one to be seen in the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Yes, the plaintiff is interested. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor. I owe the answer to two questions. First question. Why were the two major amendments - I think large volumes - not part of the House's press? It's just a time perspective. The government approved this bill at the end of July, came to the Chamber of Deputies on 17 August, based on the sharp increase in prices at the turn of August and September, we decided, firstly, that this year will not be 25 percent of the austerity tariff, which would correspond calendarly but 40 percent, that is the 8 billion. Secondly, the $30 billion was asked if the entrepreneurs were going to run out this year. Probably not, but in order to write the programs that will help them, we're going to allocate the funds. So I would say that I consider it almost impossible that the whole amount would be exhausted this year. I say that quite honestly. [[Noise in the hall.]] On the other hand, the amount is maximal, based on qualified estimates that the aid could relate to higher units of thousands of business entities that theoretically meet the conditions to which it might reach. I think that's the last two irresponsible questions that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u109	Minister, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, and I'm asking colleagues who have returned to the O.R. now to settle down, if necessary, and I'm going to ask them to keep it down, because the noise in the O.R. is...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u110	Now, on my part, just a brief evaluation of the debate. Thank you, everyone. I counted two performances without wanting to name them, which was past the effect of the third reading. I think she was unnecessarily personally offensive, but that's the responsibility of each of the performers. For the others, I would like to appreciate the tone of the performance, even if I disagree with what has been said or I have a different opinion, so I would like to appreciate the tone of the debate. Finally, I would like to ask that we approve the amendment to the state budget, and I just want to remind you that the highest amount of these additional expenditures goes first into the area of managing high energy prices, whether it be an austerity tariff, whether it be the temporary crisis framework for large companies and other measures. And the second highest area of the increased expenditure is a social area where, of course - and it could not be expected - it allocates resources to the second extraordinary valorisation, and by increasing the living and existential minimum, by changing even normalities, this logically increases the contribution to housing in particular. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u111	Thank you for your attention. I will ask the rapporteur for an interest in the final word. It's not like that. Nevertheless, I will now ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. I will ask the rapporteur if there have been any proposals in the general debate which we should now vote on first, such as the repetition of second reading? [[Member Bernard: That is not the case.]] It's not like that, so I'm gonna ask you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly on the procedure: The motion to reject the law has not been filed, so we will vote first on the legislative technical regulation, which is in the material you have received, mentioned under W. No legislative technical amendments were made at third reading. We will then vote on the various amendments and continue on the basis of the material put into the system together with the budget committee resolution. I assume you all have it at your disposal. When we deal with all the amendments, we will vote on the bill as a whole. I'm going to ask you now to agree to this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u113	I want to ask if anyone is proposing another procedure, if there is a counterproposal against what has been presented, or what is mentioned in the said material? This is not so, I do not see any proposal, so we will vote on the draft procedure, as the rapporteur has read it. Yes, I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. In the meantime, I've got a gong so all my colleagues can arrive. The number of Members seems to be stable. I will just repeat for those who came later that we will now vote on the procedure, as proposed by the rapporteur, namely the procedure that you have in press 284/2. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? There were 160 Members in vote number 4, 159 in favour, and no one was opposed. The proposal was adopted, we adopted the procedure as proposed by the rapporteur. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Therefore, we will first vote on the legislative technical regulation of proposal A, which is registered as the first one under letter W. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u115	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number five, 160 Members were enrolled, 159 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u116	Furthermore, we will vote on the amendments. The first is an amendment under the designation A; it is further - without any address - about the amendment of Members Šimek, Bernard, Nový and Munzar. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u117	Designer? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 6, 160 Members were enrolled, 142 voted in favour, and 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u118	In addition, the proposal B1 concerns Chapters 317 and 398, submitted by Members and Members pokorný Jermanová, Dostálová and Schillerová. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u119	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number seven, 160 Members have been voted in favour, 77, against 71. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u120	In addition, the proposal B2 concerns Chapters 317, 398, submitted by Mrs Pokorná Jermanová and Mrs Dostálová. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u121	The designer disagrees. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 160 Members voted in favour of 75, against 70. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u122	In addition, the proposal B3 was submitted by Members, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, Babka, Brož. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u123	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Agreed. I'm opening the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u124	Disagree!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u125	Disagree. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number nine, 159 Members voted in favour of 75, against 70. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u126	In addition, the proposal B4 is submitted by Members of Parliament Pokorná Jermanová, Babka, Brož. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u127	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 160 Members voted in favour of 76, against 81. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u128	Furthermore, the amendment under letter C was tabled by Members Heller, Michálek, Klíma, Žáček, Lochman. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u129	Designer? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 11, 160 Members were enrolled, 80 voted in favour, 74 voted in favour, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u130	In addition, Mr Kobza submitted a proposal D1, the Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u131	The plaintiff's position? [[I think there's a vote check going on.]] Checking the votes. Do we have a message? Yes. The Member shall take a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u132	Hello, Mr. Vice-President. I voted in favour. I'm late for high school. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u133	Yes, we will therefore vote on the objection to the vote. I begin the vote and ask who is in favour of such an objection to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 12, 160 Members have been voted in favour, 136 voted in favour, 12 voted in favour, the objection has been accepted. We will therefore repeat the previous vote. I ask the rapporteur once again to state what we will be voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u134	We will therefore vote on the amendment under letter C. This is a proposal from Members Heller, Michálek, Klíma, Žáček and Lochman. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u135	Designer? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 13, 160 Members have been voted in favour, 85 voted in favour, and the proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u136	We continue with the amendment under the designation D1, the petitioner, Mr Kobza. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u137	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 14, 160 Members were voted in, 16, against 84 voted in, and the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u138	Furthermore, the proposal D2, once again by Mr Kobza. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u139	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 15, 160 Members have been voted in favour, 16, against 86, and the proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u140	In addition, Mrs Šafránková submits the proposal under letter E. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u141	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 16, 160 Members have been voted in favour, 16, against 127, and the proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u142	In addition, the F proposal was submitted by Members Rais and Vondrák. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u143	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 17 was signed by 160 Members, in favour of 75, against 67, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u144	Furthermore, Mrs Štefanová's G1 proposal. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u145	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 18, 160 Members have been voted in favour, 74 voting against 75, and the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u146	Furthermore, Mrs Štefanová, once again, proposed the G2 proposal. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u147	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 19, 160 Members were voted in, 76 voted in, 76 voted in, the proposal was not adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u148	In addition, the proposal by H to Mrs Pošarová. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u149	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 20, 160 Members have been voted in, 74 voted in, 83 voted in, the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u150	Furthermore, the proposal Members of Zlínsky, too. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u151	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 21, 160 Members were enrolled, 16 voted in favour, 137 voted in favour, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u152	J of Mr Kettner. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u153	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 22, 159 Members voted in favour, 74 voted against 60, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u154	Furthermore, Mr Kettner's 2 proposal. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u155	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 23, 160 Members have been voted in, 75 voted in, 61 voted in, the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u156	In addition, the proposal to the Members of Hendrych and Juchelka. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u157	Designer? [[Disagree.]] Disagree. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 24, 159 Members voted in favour of 74, against 76. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u158	Furthermore, the proposal by Mr l Juchelka. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u159	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 25, 159 Members were voted in favour, 74 voted in favour, against 65. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u160	Furthermore, the proposal by M Members Adamec and Müller. The Committee on Budgets recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u161	Designer's okay. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 26, 159 Members were enrolled, in favour of the vote 157, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u162	Furthermore, the proposal by N Members: Babka, Richter and Babiš. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u163	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 27, 159 Members were voted in favour, 74 voted in favour, 82 voted against. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u164	In addition, the proposal by Mr O1 of Mr Černý. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u165	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 28, 159 Members were voted in favour of 16, against 87. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u166	In addition, the proposal by Mr O2 of Mr Černý. The Committee on Budgets has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u167	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 29, 159 Members were voted in favour, 15, against 80. The motion was denied. This is my colleague Vondráček reporting. I was wondering if it was just a hump? [[Yes. - Fun.]] Thank you. Mr rapporteur, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u168	Mr Koten's proposal. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u169	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 30, 159 Members voted in favour of 73, against 82. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u170	Furthermore, the proposal by Mr Jurečka for Q. The Committee on Budgets recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u171	Designer? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 31, 159 Members were enrolled, 156 voted in favour, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u172	In addition, the proposal by R Members: Kott, Tureček, Schillerová. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u173	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 32, 159 Members were voted in favour, 74 voted in favour, against 84. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u174	Proposal by R2 Members: Kott, Tureček, Pražák. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u175	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 33, 159 Members voted in favour of 75, against 83. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u176	Proposal S1. They present Members and Members Lang, Mračková Vildumetzová, Mašek, Ryba. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u177	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 34, 159 Members were voted in favour, 74 voted in favour, against 77. The motion was denied. Yes, I'm registering the application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. There. We've blocked... Now! It's on. We will wait until the number of Members and Members is settled. And I think you can continue, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u178	Design S2. They present Members, Member Lang, Mračková Vildumetzová, Mašek, Ryba. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u179	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 35, 159 Members were voted in favour, 74 voted in favour, against 78. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u180	Proposal T. Presented by Members Brabec, Havlíček. The Committee on Budgets is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u181	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 160 Members voted in favour of 75, against 84. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u182	Proposal U1. Members of Sládeček, Hrnčíř, present. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u183	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 160 Members voted in favour of the vote No. 37 and 16 voted against 137. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u184	Proposition U2. Members of the Sedláček, Hrnčíř, present. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u185	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 160 Members voted in favour of 75, against 80. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u186	Proposal V is tabled by Members Vondrák, Fridrich, Rais. The Committee on Budgets did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u187	Designer? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 161 Members voted in favour of 74, against 75. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u188	The amendments have been exhausted, Mr President. I will now ask you to vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u189	Yes, all the proposals have been voted on. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022, according to the House press 284, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 40 vote, 161 Members were voted in favour, 86 voted in favour, against 72. The motion was accepted. And I am saying that we have given our consent to the bill. This is Madam President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, what can I say in conclusion? That it caught up with you. All your talk, the opposition's Counts Council, and even though you have 127 billion extra revenue, you finally approved the deficit that we were budgeting for 2022! And you can't hide it for spending the war in Ukraine. And you know it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-001-001.u191	I'm done discussing item one, the government bill on the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the programme set out in the 42nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am now ending. I would remind you that on Tuesday, 25 October, we will continue the interrupted 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Until then, have a good day and goodbye.
