ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u1	121. Reminding the genocide of the Ukrainian nation during a famine organized by the Stalinist regime of the Soviet Union (1932-1933) To this point, you have received House Document No 684. [[There's noise in the room.]] Quiet in the hall, please! Thank you. And I will ask that Mr Pavel Žáček, who will also become his rapporteur, take the floor for the plaintiff of this point. Thank you. And before that, Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to ask everyone to calm down in the hall again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u2	Thank you, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, in the context of the current horrific war crimes of a genocidal nature committed by members of the armed forces of the Russian Federation in Ukraine against the civilian population, innocent men, women and children, accompanied by Putinův propaganda calling for the destruction of Ukrainian statehood, sovereignty and freedom, it is necessary to return to one political failure, which was the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic number 535 of 30 November 2007, adopted on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of famine in Ukraine between 1932 and 1933. Together with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose to adopt a new updated resolution to commemorate the genocide of the Ukrainian nation during the famine organised by the Stalinist regime of the Soviet Union between 1932 and 1933, based primarily on the European Parliament resolution of 20 October 2008, which we will also recognise genocide as other MPs, the genocide of the Ukrainian population organised by the Bolshevik Soviet regime. As has already been said, this House document 684 was inserted under this number into the system. The Ukrainian famine in the early 1930s, the Ukrainian glodomor or dungeon, was a famine deliberately induced in the territory of the then Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, caused by the violent industrialization of the Bolshevik regime, compulsory contributions, collectivization and mass repression in the agricultural regions of the Soviet Union. According to known American historian Snyder Snyder, this was a targeted attempt to eliminate Ukrainian national sentiment. For the sake of rapid industrialization and collectivization, the Soviet leadership violently confiscated and sold cereals abroad in exchange for industrial technologies while trying to nationalize agricultural production, with widespread famine being a major and deliberate negative impact. After the breakup of the Soviet Union, the evaluation was carried over, based on new archival materials, that it was a targeted genocide of Ukrajinec by the Stalinist regime. For example, Lemkin Lemkin, Timothy Snyder, uses the term genocide, as well as Timothy Snyder, who largely rely on correspondence between Soviet nomenclature policies at the time. Against this, Soviet dissident Alexander Solženicyn emphasized that many Rus, landowners called the Soviet regime as a sphere, as well as many other Neukrainian nationalities, were also victims of the famine. Hunger in Ukraine was preceded by famine in Povolže from the civil war of 1921 and was followed by famine from 1946 to 1947, or after World War II, when the Soviet Union recovered from the Nazi occupation after which the drought came. Hunger was part of a wider disaster of Soviet famine, which mainly affected southern Russia, eastern and central Ukraine, Cuba and Povolže. The fact remains, however, that the famine in Ukraine had specific features. It was also accompanied by the destruction of the country's cultural elites. Stalin expressed in private the belief that unsatisfactory supplies of agricultural production from Ukraine are the goal, I quote, of Polák and petljurovs. Most of the victims lived in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, they were ethnic Ukrajinec, they were Rus, Žid and Polák. For the sake of completeness, the famine also affected Ukrainian Čech, such as those living in Crimea. Prior to the famine of the Ukrajinec population in the Ukrainian SSR in 1926, it accounted for 80 per cent, that is to say 23 218 860 inhabitants, their share fell to 76.5 per cent of the entire population until the next census in 1939, that is to say 23 667 509 inhabitants. Even at the end of the famine, some historians report even a lower number of Ukrajinec, such as Lemkin Lemkin, says 19.6 million, which is 63 percent. Here we see the effects of famine on the Ukrainian population. Throughout the Soviet Union, according to US sources referring to the original Soviet statistics in 1927 and 1937, the number of Ukrajinec fell from 31.1 million to 26,4 million, while the number of Rus as part of the Rusification grew from 77.8 million to 93.9 million. Our common objective should be to name and unambiguously condemn these types of crimes against humanity in order to prevent any repetition of them, or to support their investigations at international level, regardless of the nature of the regime that committed them. I thank the Ukrainian historian David Svoboda for the background to this introductory word. I shall read the full text of the resolution in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u3	Thank you, rapporteur, and I hereby initiate the general debate that Mr Balaš has signed up to. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to support the motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to commemorate the genocide of the Ukrainian nation during the famine organised by the Stalinist regime between 1932 and 1933. All I'm going to do is recapitulate what's hidden under the concept of genocide. The Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 8 December 1948 in Art. 2 defines genocide as any of the acts referred to below committed in order to destroy, in whole or in part, any national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such and includes the killing of members of such a group, the causing of serious bodily harm or mental disorders to members of such group, the deliberate introduction of any group into such living conditions as are intended to cause its complete or partial physical destruction, measures designed to prevent the birth of children in such a group, the violent transfer of children from one group to another. For the second month, we have seen what totalitarian will is capable of, what a state is capable of, absent elements of democratic control in which freedom of speech and political pluralism are suppressed. That is why it is important to recall the Stalinist repression in Ukraine, the repression of peasants, especially against Ukrainian peasants who were guilty of just wanting to live as they were used to. The result of this persecution was nearly 5 million victims only in Ukraine. Unfortunately, the Stalin crime was covered by other, perhaps even worse crimes committed in the name of another totalitarian government, and the crime remained unpunished and not investigated. [[12.40 hours]] Nations that have learned from their past live in prosperous democracies. Those who haven't learned are still living a lie and risk repeating history. The authors of the concept of crimes against humanity and the crime of genocide are two important international lawyers. In the formulation of both concepts, their authors were mainly based on the experiences gained in the first half of the 20th century, in which two devastating conflicts took place. Conflicts that have been accompanied by contempt for the human rights of individuals and entire groups of residents. Conflicts that were accompanied by mass persecutions of the civilian population, often the population that combined only the language or place where they lived. Since the first genocide in 1915, the situation has repeated several times, and it seems to be repeated today. World War I brought to power perhaps the worst totalitarian ruler in human history, Stalin and Hitler. Stalinian persecution began only a few years before Hitler's and continued after World War II. I mentioned that the authors of the concepts of crime against humanity and crimes against genocide were two lawyers. These lawyers have a lot in common. They were both advisors to legal teams who participated on the case against the Nuremberg trial. One was an advisor to the United States legal team, the other was the United Kingdom. They both ended their star career at universities as professors of international law. Hersch Lauterpacht in Cambridge, Lemkin Lemkin with the mentioned colleague at Yale University. But there was something else between them. One was born and raised on the border of Poland and Belarus, the other just a short walk from Lviv, then Lemberg in eastern Galicji. [[Haliči]] They both studied at Lviv University at her law school. Both lost their loved ones during the Shoo in Halic. Only two survived from Lemkinův's family, his brother and sister-in-law. Both knew not only the horrors of Nazism but also the horrors of Stalin's terror, the horrors unleashed against Ukrainian peasants in the early 1930's, the repression of a group of uncomfortable residents whose victims were nearly five million people, whom Stalin and his minions deliberately threw into a situation from which there was no escape. Lemkin Lemkin, as the spiritual creator of the concept and definition of genocide, calls Ukraine's famine a genocide in his article Soviet Genocide in Ukraine, published in 1953 and introduced to the public at his lecture in New York. While the Nazi repression and cruelty were finally punished, the Stalinists have been going through decades almost unnoticed. While a righteous punishment helped one to gain self-esteem and to deal with the dark past, those who have not dealt with their past commit constant, constant crimes, and still have not learned to this day. A state that doesn't learn from its past has no future. Order The Chamber of Deputies should thus recall that what the totalitarian regime in the Soviet Union was doing in Ukrainians today is committed by its gravediggers, representatives of the totalitarian Putin regime in the same place, again against the defenceless civilian population. Repression against the civilian population is, without any doubt, a crime against humanity. What is happening in Ukraine today, what Russian soldiers are doing, again borders on genocide. That is why it is important to condemn such actions and send a message that the whole world sees what the criminal Russian regime has unleashed in Ukraine, to send a message to Russian citizens that it is high time for them to learn from their own history, not to be fooled by the propaganda of the criminal ruling mafia. Send a message that without learning from their own failures, they will not have a future. That is why it is important to name and condemn what happened in Ukraine in the 1930s and to remind us that something like this is totally unacceptable in a civilized world, as is an unacceptable aggressive war against a sovereign state, as are unacceptable crimes against peace and humanity, war crimes and the crime of genocide. For me personally, the discussion of this resolution is even more emotional about the fact that one of the victims of Stalinian famine in Ukraine was also my great-grandmother and other relatives. We cannot only hope that the simple Rus will finally learn from the failure of their leaders and begin to build democracy and prosperity for all, not just for those who are bringing them down to the very moral bottom. It is in the interests of Russia, its citizens, its immediate neighbours, but also of the entire international community. It's in the interests of the future of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u5	Thank you, Mr Member, and I remind you that we are still in the general debate. I wonder if anyone else is interested in getting off? Yes, Minister Lipavský. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, I am very pleased that The Chamber of Deputies is discussing this proposal for a very important resolution. It is a resolution which, in essence, was already adopted by the House ten years ago, as Mr Žáček has already said. And I'm going to have a little personal perspective here. I have dealt with the subject of this resolution, the issue of the designation of controlled famine of Soviet terror against the Ukrainian population and its designation of genocide, also in the last parliamentary term as a Member. At that time, we came to the conclusion, after a mature consideration, that we would not submit such a resolution to the House, because we were afraid that it would not have to pass, because there was another distribution of political forces and there was another political atmosphere, and I am very glad that today the Czech Republic has such a House, where the resolution, I firmly believe, will now pass. So this is my very personal perspective on this particular resolution. Of course, the circumstances under which we adopt this resolution are tragic are very sad. Traditionally, this kind of resolution is adopted in the autumn, when the famine in Ukraine is also mentioned. I think anyone who was in Kiev, who went to see the Memorial of Famine and had the opportunity to see the famous statue of a starving little girl, and then there's actually a museum where there's information, so it's something incredibly, incredibly strong. So let me just remind you again that I'm very happy that the House is going to settle for it. Unfortunately, it is also up to date on the current issue, it is up to date on how Russian occupying troops behave in freshly conquered territories, but also on how they behave in Crimea against the Crimean Tatar. It is also a question of how we, as Europe, can cope with our own history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u7	Thank you, Minister, and I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. If not, this concludes the general debate. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word? No. Then we can proceed to the debate in detail. The rapporteur is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u8	Thank you. I would like to take the liberty of reading the incriminating resolution that you have, of course, before you, the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 18th meeting of 6 April 2022 to commemorate the genocide of the Ukrainian nation during the famine organised by the Stalinist regime of the Soviet Union between 1932 and 1933: [[That's 16 right there.]] [[12.50 hours]] "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, aware of the democratic principles on which the Czech Republic is founded, respect for human rights and fundamental rights and remembering the period of non-freedom and the period of communist totalitarian power by which the Czech nation passed, on the occasion of the 90th anniversary of famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933: - having regard to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms; - having regard to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms; - having regard to the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide; - having regard to the Joint Declaration adopted at the 58th plenary session of the UN General Assembly on the 70th anniversary of the famine in Ukraine, which supported 63 states, including all 25 Member States of the European Union at the time; - having regard to the Ukrainian Law on famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933, adopted on 28 November 2006; - having regard to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic No. 535 of 30 November 2007 adopted on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933; A. whereas respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are fundamental principles on which both the Czech Republic and the European Union are founded; B. whereas the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crime of Genocide criminalizes a number of acts committed intending to completely or partially destroy a national, ethnic, racial or religious group, the killing of members of such a group, the causing of serious bodily harm or mental disorders to members of such a group, the deliberate introduction of the group into such living conditions as are intended to cause its complete or partial physical destruction, measures aimed at preventing the birth of children and the violent transfer of children from one group to another group; C. whereas the famine in 1932-1933, which caused the deaths of millions of Ukrajinec, was cynically and cruelly planned by the Stalinův regime to enforce the agricultural collectivization policy against the will of the rural population in Ukraine; D. whereas recalling crimes against humanity in European history should help prevent the occurrence of similar crimes in the future; E. whereas European integration is based on the readiness to cope with the tragic history of the 20th century and the recognition that reconciliation with difficult history means no sense of collective guilt, but it forms a stable basis for building a common European future based on common values and a shared mutually dependent future, The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic declares before the people of Ukraine, especially survivors of famine and families and relatives of millions of victims that: (a) recognises the artificially induced famine in 1932-1933 in Ukraine as a terrible crime of genocide against the Ukrainian people and against humanity; (b) strongly condemns these crimes against the Ukrainian people, mass repression and violations of human rights and freedoms; (c) deeply saddened, he worships the memory of the victims of famine in Ukraine, who, in the years 1932-1933, was deliberately summoned by a monstrous totalitarian regime to break the resistance of the Ukrainian people to violent collectiveization and deface their national self-confidence; (d) expressing deep condolences on behalf of the Czech nation to relatives and close millions of people who have been victims of famine, who deliberately and purposefully caused a criminal Stalinist regime; (e) expresses its determination in the context of the current war aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine to promote international principles, including the detection of perpetrators of these crimes, which would prevent such tragedy from happening anywhere in the world in the future." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate in detail? I can't see. I've just begun a moment ago, so this concludes a detailed debate. [[A member of the Member of the Pupils is to speak.]] The final word?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u10	I'm sorry, I've been alerted to a technical error. I've read the 18th meeting, there's supposed to be a 16th meeting. The title of the resolution should therefore be 'The resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 16th meeting of 6 April 2022 to commemorate the genocide of the Ukrainian nation during the famine organised by the Stalinist regime of the Soviet Union in 1932-1933'. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u11	Yes, thank you. I wonder if you still have the final word? [[Rapporteur: No.]] No more, thank you. Since we are approaching the vote and there is a motion for an unsubscribe, I am taking the liberty of checking you all out and I will ask you to come forward again. At this point, we are taking the vote on the motion for a resolution. I hereby initiate the vote. Who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Who's against it? Voting number 126, registered 127, for was 125, against no one. Result: accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank the rapporteur and everyone. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] Minister Bartoš reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u12	I'd like to announce to the screen record that I was catching up, as I'm sure everyone noticed, I was pressing "for" at the given time, but the record says "stayed" on the record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u13	Are you questioning or not questioning?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u14	I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-005-121.u15	You're not questioning the vote, thank you. Let me continue with the interrupted point and that was the point
