ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u1	103. Proposal by Members of Karel Haas and others to issue a law amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws /house print 270/ - third reading Mr Karel Haas and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Lubomír Brož, are already taking his place at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the 270/5 Houses of Press, which was delivered on 4 November 2022. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to all of you as House Press 270/6. And now I ask the appellant whether he has an interest in speaking before the debate is opened? Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u2	Good morning, Madam President, my fellow Members of the Government, my fellow Members, thank you very much for the floor. I will try to be as brief as possible, yet I have allowed myself to sign up so that, before the debate in the third reading, I can somehow sum up the state of the House press 270. I will no longer comment in detail on the content of the press, I think that this is no longer quite appropriate in the third reading, and I will sum up some procedural matters. The draft law was discussed in detail in the expert committees and on the subcommittee, together three times at the meeting of the guarantee committee, twice at the meeting of the subcommittee. This means that there have been five really good times - I hope I can say this for all the participants - very good discussion, answering all the questions about the House press. This means, together, five discussions on the committee, on the guarantee school committee and on the subcommittee on sport. The second point I wanted to make here is that - and I very much appreciate it across the House - that before reading this House of Press, the decision of the Guarantee School Committee to support the House's press was cross-cutting - 16: 0: 0, no one stayed, no one opposed. Before the third reading, after a very good discussion in the Guarantee School Committee, the decision was made 17: 0: 0, no one stayed, no one opposed. I will therefore be very happy if the entire House, the House plenary across the political spectrum, reflects this politically cross-cutting decision of the guarantee committee. The third point which is just following the discussion of this House's press in the committee and in the subcommittee: thank you very much to all the actors involved in the debate. Perhaps colleagues and opposition clubs from both opposition clubs will confirm that we have been in touch, we have had - I think that with ANO colleagues at least three personal meetings, with colleagues from the SPD movement, with people always dedicated to the presidents of the MPs, as it should be, I think two personal meetings. [[9.10 hours]] We have tried to work on the vast majority of comments made by colleagues from the opposition. In fact, from personal negotiations with colleagues from opposition MPs - and perhaps that is the case - this is perhaps not a negative policy - there is no comment from our colleagues on the final proposal. This concerns the requirement for higher education of members of the Council of the National Sports Agency. It is not a political conflict in that matter, it is actually a substantive issue, a requirement for the level of education of the members of the National Sports Agency Council, so in that matter there are colleagues from the ANO movement whose comment it was, it was actually the only one we did not hear. All the others have been worked out. So the colleagues made a legitimate amendment, and it will be decided here in plenary. Another amendment tabled by the representatives of the opposition parliamentary club, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, was not the subject of our discussions, which I am not reducing in any way. It is my opinion that I am calling upon here for a negative opinion, not for the sake of any smug personal on my part, but who was present at the meeting of the Guarantee School Committee, so the Guarantee School Committee received a written opinion from the Chairman of the Supreme Audit Office. The President of the Supreme Audit Office was present at the meeting of the Guarantee School Committee and expressed a relatively - as to how to put this in a cumbersome - strong negative position. Perhaps the emotions were too strong there, but this does not change the substance of the Supreme Audit Office's opinion on this amendment. So much for communicating between the coalition and the opposition, once again, thank you so much for all these negotiations. I tried to keep my colleagues informed outside of the negotiations about basically any shifts, and they got the last basis from me at the beginning of this week. This background, and this is actually the only content point I want to mention here today, last week in the media - I first noticed it, and I leave it entirely to individual consideration, I will not label the source, I first noticed it on the First Messages web server, evaluate each of you in some way the profile of the source here - so on the source I noticed an article rather strongly rejecting, attacking this House's press as unconstitutional, especially from the perspective of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport. I, please, have responded to this so that I can be as prepared today as possible: the regulation of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport was put in the amendment on the basis of comments from the sports environment precisely because of the negotiations with the sports environment. It was not in the original version and I think that any legislative regulation is to be implemented primarily, it is to be prepared in cooperation with the highest possible experts that we have on the issue in our country, and optimally also with those institutions or entities to which the new legislation will apply. So I was in the second half of last week - thanking him so much publicly - in communication with the President of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport. I stress that the National Court of Arbitration for Sport does not set up this amendment, which actually only anchors its legal anchoring. The National Court of Arbitration for Sport was set up before this amendment by the previous President of the National Sports Agency and quite rightly, I can say so here, was appointed President of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport, I dare say one of the two largest experts in the field of sports law in the Czech Republic, lecturer of the Prague Law Faculty, Mr.Docent Brodec. With the President of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport, the text concerning the amendment of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport was prepared in the summer directly in cooperation with him as chairman of this court in quotation marks, this decision-making platform, and in the last week - I sent it to my colleagues from the opposition - yet Professor Brodec worked for us a written opinion which confirms the correctness, constitutionality, flawlessness of the legislative regulation. That's actually the only thing I've ever tried to respond to any of the reservations that appeared in the media space last week. So much for me in the opening words. I am ready - I do not want to go into the factual details that we have discussed the most, as it should, on the committee and subcommittee today. I will only ask all Members across the political spectrum who want to move the functioning of the National Sports Agency to the better, to support the proposal and thank you very much for any support. So much for my opening word, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u3	Thank you, too, and I am now opening the debate. I'll reload my apologies. As far as apologies are concerned, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes for the whole day for health reasons and Mr Viktor Vojtko from 16.30 to 22 hours for working reasons. Mr Jan Richter is entered into the general debate and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u4	Hello, thank you for your word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about the amendment to the Act on the National Sports Agency. Personally, I strongly agree that it is necessary to improve the functioning of the National Sports Agency. This office is one of the youngest in the Republic, and it is responsible for a huge agenda. It distributes funds to more than 6,000 children's sports clubs, more than 100 national sports unions, thousands of sports venues, and it would be foolish to think that the office will be created by one law and will operate for decades. In three years, a lot of work has been done at the NSA, clear and public criteria have been set, according to which subsidies are distributed, and at the same time gaps have emerged, which need to be resolved by the amendment to the law, and I completely agree with that. Unfortunately, this amendment does not provide any solution to the current problems of Czech sport, and the only thing arising from this amendment is a ten-member supervisory commission from politicians. Excuse me, but is there really someone here who believes that the Czech sports council will solve the problems of ten people who are supposed to oversee the agency? I don't think so myself. This amendment is a demonstration of wastefulness and a corrupt opportunity. There are always words about the need to reduce the administrative complexity of grant calls for clubs. Why didn't something happen in this novel? Why does the law require everyone, therefore also a children's sports club from a small village, which has, for example, only twenty members, and from the National Sports Agency, 30 000 crowns per year to have to document a statement from the register of actual owners of the association and other extracts and certificates from the financial office and so on? These small clubs, which are thousands, and are often led by one volunteer and enthusiast who works for children, are overwhelmed by unnecessary administration, which is required by law, not by the National Sports Agency itself. Why doesn't this amendment remember this when we're dealing with sports? We continue to talk about the concept of sport, but it is not a state concept of sport, and therefore even sports associations cannot have a concept, because the concept in sport means that you create a plan that affects at least one Olympic cycle, in a better case two, that means eight years, that means telling each other the goals and means to build, for example, different sports academies, to engage quality trainers, physiotherapists, doctors and foreign experts, but you can't do any of this, because you don't know how much money you get from the state in a year, so you can hardly sign quality people for one year. The concept is that you'll have them signed for at least four, six years. One year the NSA has 7 billion for sport, the next year 5 billion, now 7 billion for sport. How many in 2024, no one knows. If we want sport to have a concept, they need to know what they can count on. Once again, when creating this amendment, it should be thought that sport should be anchored in the law and receive a percentage of GDP per year. Then clubs and unions would know what they could expect in the future, and they could do sports conceptually. [[9.20 hours]] Do you want to simplify the administration of sports clubs and associations? Why, then, was multi-annual funding not discussed in the creation of this amendment? Each of the 6,000 small children's sports clubs must apply for grant challenges, as well as my club, each year for the same applications. Why has the Agency not been allowed to issue three-year invitations? Therefore, the club would ask once, it would have determined the money it would receive every year for three years, and two thirds of administration would fall off and work conceptually, as I have already mentioned. The possibility of improving the functioning of Czech sport is countless for people who are really engaged in sport. But this amendment will not bring them any, just another ten newly paid seats for politicians. And as I have already mentioned in my amendments under budget 2023, in this way we legalise only the political influence on the distribution of subsidies, but we do not deal with sport as such. That is why I will not vote for this amendment as a person who spends my whole life playing sports at all levels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u5	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Kettner is the next performer, Mr Jan Lacina will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. I must commend the appellant for his communication and for his professional approach to the preparation of this law. I'm sure I agree that the National Agency needed some way to adjust its guidelines on the functioning of its control. I think this amendment is in order. I agree, of course, with some reservations, but I think that all those reservations have been or will be implemented in the form of amendments that have been supported by the School Committee. This means that not only will we support the law as a whole, but we will support those amendments that we believe make sense and improve this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Jan Lacina, Mr Radek Vondráček, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u8	Pleasant Wednesday morning, I'd like to wish you well. I will join in thanking you, especially for Mr Karel Haas, who was the driver of the whole process, but also for all the others who took part in it. I would like to say - and today we signed it an hour ago on the subcommittee on sport - that the funding of sport by the National Sports Agency is about one tenth of what Czech sport receives and that municipalities play a key role there. Therefore, I expect from the new structure of the National Sports Agency that its main roles, the subsidy policies, will be stable, predictable, fair and timely. But then the National Sports Agency also has one long-term task and it is to work on the good name of the Czech sport, because at a time when the Czech sport will have enough respect and a good name in society, this will enable us, representatives of municipalities, to convince our colleagues in the councils of cities, municipalities, towns and regions to support the sport more than they support it at the moment. This, in my view, is absolutely essential and this is also the end of my contribution to this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u9	Thank you, too. I'm gonna reload an apology. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes within 10 hours for work reasons. Now, Mr Radek Vondráček, with his contribution. [[Mr Babka reports that he and Mr Vondráček are changing their order.]] You take turns, Mr. Ondřej Babka, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will speak only briefly on this subject and only somehow evaluate the whole development of the adoption of this law. I am sure to confirm what has fallen from my colleagues here, and I add my thanks to the petitioner or the authors of this law, because it was certainly an exemplary approach to how to communicate in the adoption of the law with the opposition. I say this in the sense that we would not have come up with any such amendment to the National Sports Agency, because we, as an YES movement, have a different view of how it should work. Unfortunately - and it was also mentioned here that this is a wasted opportunity - when we had a novel about sport here, or so we still have, so unfortunately we did not solve the problems that really bothered Czech sport. We did not solve them because the first idea to make the operation of the National Sports Agency more effective was to set up a multi-membered board to manage it. So in the end, we have three members of the board, which we are practically left with, just changing the names of our functions, which means he will be a new chairman, a vice-chairman and a member of the board. Unfortunately, we do not bring the National Sports Agency closer to becoming a Ministry for Sport in the future, which would certainly appreciate the sports environment. What the sports environment expected from this amendment means that priorityisation of sport would be resolved, and what the sport environment actually expects is that there will be quickly paid subsidies and that there will be enough money for sport, unfortunately the amendment does not solve this either. Of course, we will hope that these problems that the Czech sports environment has will be solved. Of course, what we do not like and we have comments about this is the creation of a Supervisory Commission, which they will therefore vote for, for some reason, five members of the Chamber of Deputies and five members of the Senate. Even at the first meeting we had, I took the liberty of predicting that, unfortunately, the Supervisory Commission would be composed of Members and Senators. I guess I'll leave it to each of you to see if you see this way of political control as effective. I understand - and I was a member of the subcommittee on the dispute during the previous parliamentary term - that the opposition then said that it had no control over what was going on in the NSA. Unfortunately, however, I do not find this method of policy control appropriate. Moreover, in that first proposal - and this was one of the comments that we had on it - that since the supervisory commission was to be created, so that these people would not be evaluated in any way, that means that the function in the Supervisory Commission would be free of charge. This was one of the comments that the YES movement had and which was accepted by the promoter, for which at least this is how we thank. Of course, this amendment only brings little things that are for the benefit of the matter. Here you can mention that the university sport will return to the Ministry of Education. For the YES movement, I will certainly ask you to support our amendments to this press, which we have tabled, whether it is the SAO's control or to alleviate the need for higher education for members of the newly emerging council. We will certainly not support this amendment for the YES movement, but we will hope that although we do not think that it solves the basic problems of Czech sport, it will perhaps lead to better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Radek Vondráček's speech is now coming up and Mr David Šimek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u12	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will reduce my contribution significantly after a certain agreement. However, I would like to thank my colleague Haas for communicating that standard, for having responded in writing and not being a member of the committee. However, I wouldn't surprise you if I made some arguments. I'm going to leave aside the vast majority of what others have been talking about and about the sports environment. [[9.30 hours]] I would like to focus only on one thing, and that is the establishment of some sort of arbitration court at the National Sports Agency. Unfortunately, although my colleague Haas tried, he did not dispel my doubts, because I really believe that the truth and the legal interpretation are elsewhere. I really consider it a controversial legislative act which is contrary to Act No. 216 of 1994 on arbitration and enforcement of arbitration awards if an institution within the National Sports Agency is called a court. And it can be well meant, justified, so it is contrary to the legislation of the Czech Republic and it is contrary to other documents. He actually mentioned the Haas Committee's reaction here. I found myself because of the few comments in the field that I don't own, which I just don't belong to, and I don't even have an ambition to belong to, and it's a complex sports environment, a complex environment of different sports organizations and mutual relationships. I just wanted to focus on the legal interpretation, and I'm really convinced that the article that was here, as far as I know, also mentioned, which came out on November 27th, which is called "Another black wound for sport," has a real basis, because there is one fundamental change. This is where the arbitration court, its jurisdiction, not only in the field of doping, but also in the area of disciplinary action. The Olympic Committee, not just him, responded to this account, and claims that it is an intervention in the autonomy of the Federal, that it is contrary to the Olympic Charter and that it is in conflict with basic constitutional principles already, contrary to the Civil Code, which also guarantees autonomy of registered associations, and leads to absurdities, when the statutes of individual associations would have to be changed and when the body, the arbitration court, if we had to think about it to the full end, would probably be the body that would have to be greatly strengthened to handle all the agenda in some real time. I respect Dr. Brodec, who responded, has some erudition and has responded to the Olympic Committee. Anyway, the argument that the arbitration court isn't actually starting out, that it's already under the NSA's internal code, and that, in fact, now the court is just... I'm sorry, court, and now we're just confirming him in the law, but with all due respect, he can't be serious. Unless... I even searched for a letter from the former President of the National Sports Agency, simply informed the Sports Union 9. 12. 2021 that the arbitration committee is ending - which I have nothing against in case it is called a commission and there is no confusion of terms here - and that the National Court of Arbitration for Sport is being established. It was already very controversial about the case law and the court to create something called a trial. I just don't want to be here... I want to explain to those athletes who might mean well that the court can't use that word, that's the alpha omega of my performance. Although Dr. Brodec is an expert, he is also the chairman, if I have looked at it correctly, the current arbitration court - so please, we cannot take any independent expert analysis of any third party. This is simply the view of a person who is in conflict of interest, who is involved in the process, as is the Olympic Committee involved, and in this debate we lack an analysis of a third party that is genuinely legal. And as much as I have consulted within, say, my personal contacts and in the context of constitutional lawyers, there would really be an unjustified exception for the area of sport, a different legal regime for resolving the dispute. That's what I'm trying to appeal to you here, that's not the point of the law. The law is about something else. The athletes are waiting for something completely different. But this didn't work, and if we approve, we consciously approve of a legal error. So I don't want to read the whole article here after the agreement, which corresponds to what I think about this thing, where it's already discussing individual provisions - if you're ready for the debate, I have the arguments. But you all may have a letter from Mr Kejval, you all have a resolution from the Olympic Committee - you have because I know that Mr Haas sent it to me by e-mail, whether I looked at it yesterday or the day before yesterday. I already have another reaction to Dr. Brodec's position, where first of all it points out that it really is not an independent legal opinion, which we lack here. I can say that the constitutional lawyers I approached say it's wrong that if it was called a commission, no one will say a half word, but you're setting up an arbitration court that falls under the National Sports Agency, which has no legal personality, which comes from the National Sports Agency, when you look at how it is composed, and the important thing is that it deals with not only the doping agenda, but also the disciplinary agenda. Then I'm... I say this frankly and fairly that I do not like it to the extent that if it were to go through this, I will try to find another 20 of my colleagues and initiate the Constitutional Court to review it. It's really a legal matter, and I'm not talking to the athletes. I got into some battlefield that I just don't want to have anything to do with, there's probably some interest groups, some people like it, some people don't, but the point is the contradiction with Act No. 216, 1994. Then there are factual objections to how this should work and that in a way it can cripple the activities of individual associations that decide disciplinary offences at first instance and that arbitration court is supposed to be an appeal instance. For this reason, because now the debate is the right one, I suggest we repeat the second reading, and either to change the terminology - I don't know how much haste it is, but please let us not let the Chamber of Deputies do something about what I think the major part of the professional public believes is the legal public that it is not okay. You'll say it's good in sports law, but sports law is discipline, which is if I'm very kind, very young, who just doesn't... it's not a separate area of law. At this point, it's just some kind of specialization, and those who don't deal with it may have a little broader insight, a wider perspective, and they say that it can't be done in this way, and it's very, very controversial. I propose a repeat of the second reading here, and so before that, my proposal to reject the law has already been made in the second reading. I have left the vast majority of my arguments and concentrate only on the fact that the Arbitration Court for Sport is not okay from a legislative point of view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u13	Thank you, too. The motion has been noted. We will now proceed to the next speaker and this is Mr David Šimek, Mr Pavel Klíma will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u14	Good morning from me. I am so glad that, after a year, this law finally reaches the Chamber of Deputies, third reading. I am very pleased that this is not a law that would sew with a hot needle and where the whole group of creators, when preparing the law, did not only discuss the sports environment, and as Karel Haas mentioned here, most of the comments made by the sports environment were implemented into this law. I also think that this law is a classic and good example of the fact that the creators discussed with all the representatives of the political parties represented in the House, all of them were able to make their comments, and we must say that they were essentially all implemented into this law. That is why I am a little sorry here about the criticism that some political parties will not support this law, because they essentially participated in its work and now do not want to support what they could have influenced, and the missed opportunity, if we mention here, unfortunately wasted those who were able to talk about it and did not take advantage of this opportunity. [[9.40 hours]] For myself, I am glad that this law has come into being. I believe that this is a good start for the promotion of sport, because I think it is very important that not only professional sport but also amateur sport in all cities and municipalities should be promoted in the future, not only legislatively but also financially. And I believe that even in the coming years, there will be more and more resources to direct more funding into promoting sport. Once again, I thank Karel Haas, our boss, who led us to prepare this law, and for our KDU-ČSL club, I must say that we will support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u15	Thank you and this brings us to the last contribution to the debate so far. And in fact, right, Mr Radek Vondráček is still reporting with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u16	Just a quick remark to your foreman. Mr colleague, through the President, saying that it is not sewn with a hot needle when you have brought a comprehensive amendment to the committee at second reading is an extremely courageous statement. It may not have been sewn with a hot needle, but it wasn't sewn in the House, it wasn't sewn on Parliament's soil and the processes it was supposed to sew, so we won't support it. I am not going to vote for this personally, because from my point of view, there is a clear error, a legislative error, and I cannot vote for it. The Chamber of Deputies has the mechanisms to fix this. It could be fixed. I don't think it's crucial in the law. So what I'm thinking is, why is he so smug about it? So what's the interest in this referee really being there and working in some way? Why can't we just...? Because I don't really have any interest in the sports environment, none at all. I'm not tied to any sport, I'm a total recreational athlete. Then why don't we fix it if we can? And if we had a serious deal, it wouldn't have taken long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u17	I also thank you for keeping time. As the debate does not continue in fact, we will proceed to Mr Pavel Klíma's contribution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. To begin with, a brief reaction to Mr Vondráček's colleague to the hot needle. The legal parliamentary initiative is completely legitimate. I don't know what's wrong with the fact that a group of Members agreed to file it and write it down. Thanks again to Karel Haas and the whole group. Ad hot needle one more note: I have feedback from the sports environment that they appreciate how much and how proactively they could add to the comments to the amendment that it has never actually happened before. And once again, it just shows that it had broad support in the debate. To my previous speakers - we have learned here that colleagues from the ANO movement, whether Mr Babka or Richter, said themselves that the agency did not quite work as it should. Because if it works, we're not standing here today, we're not making any novels, and we're just sharing in peace all the money that's written in the challenges the way it's supposed to be. However, we are in a completely different environment. An example of one of many that I could mention. Madam Mayor of Highlands: Can you advise me on who to contact when we need to find out if our firefighters have received a subsidy from the program My Club 2022 from the NSA? This organization doesn't answer phones, doesn't respond to e-mails, doesn't have any contact with the founder. Until 31. 12. Firefighters and sports clubs are supposed to have their money exhausted and still have no information. Worst of all, they're all people who devote themselves to children in their spare time, and then the NSA treats them like that. I was told at the M.S.U. that it belongs to the Prime Minister. So you want me to turn to him? Or what are these associations supposed to do? Thank you so much for any information that all organizations should get, by the way, and so on and so on. I can also respond by email from the president of the football club from South Bohemia, the mayor from South Bohemia, who have the exact same problem. So again, if the agency works, we're not standing here today and we don't have to deal with anything. I was interested in one thing about the mayor, the sentence: "Where should we turn - perhaps to the MPs?" But I can't imagine any of us taking any of our requests and going to the NSA to ask what she's doing. That would be unacceptable. And I think that we should all oppose this, whether we're sitting here or here, to stand up to any of us to go and see what stage any request is at. [[It points to the right and to the left.]] That's NSA's high ground, and these people have no choice but to bang on the door. It won't open up to them, so let's hope that the entire NSA reconstruction, as it's now set up, will result in us not experiencing these e-mails anymore, especially those situations we're not experiencing. And the words about politicizing the entire NSA: well, that sounds very smiling to me, because at this point, I see, if the Supervisory Commission can establish itself as one of its possible - and I hope that the representatives of the opposition will also be members of that committee - so, perhaps, when its rules of procedure or statute are being drawn up, we will agree that the possibility of clubs, or those who are unsuccessful, will be required to turn somewhere, but not that we here ask for individual requests, but to ask if the principle is well established, so that we may be able to ask the President of the NSA if the principle is set up so that these situations may not occur. As far as the arbitration panel is concerned, I think Mr. Haas is still going to comment on this. And once again, the authority of Professor Brodec is so... that he is the only one who sits in international arbitration courts, that, as he described in his response to the opinion of the WWTP - and I do not want to mention here that when we talk about the authority of Professor Brodec, I do not want to mention the authority of Dr. Károlyi who wrote it down. But I hope that the statute of the arbitration court will be laid down, especially for associations that do not have their arbitration committee, that they will be given the opportunity to turn to it. That's all there is to it. That's all for me, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u19	Thank you, too. The contribution was due in de facto, and Mr Ondřej Babka has his own space. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, my colleague, by your means, Madam Vice-President, I think we all have these issues that you described here that the applicants have, but how will they be solved by setting up a political supervisory committee? How will the Supervisory Commission solve these problems from politicians? After all, these are procedural issues that need to be addressed within the NSA. And if the NSA needs anything, it's to increase the number of employees or make their jobs more efficient, increase their number, because there aren't full states to make those subsidies and make those requests quickly approved and the money paid quickly. And it certainly won't help the sports environment of a supervisory committee made up of ten politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u21	Thank you. Another factual one is Mr Pavel Klíma and Mr Jan Richter will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u22	I'll do it again, even for Mr. Babka, once more. The Supervisory Commission and certainly none of the politicians have any possibility of entering any request. This is where we ate one thing. I just said the way it's been set up so far. And I'm asking, why didn't you set it up so that these situations wouldn't occur so we wouldn't have to stand here at all today? You had a unique opportunity, the agency was founded on August 1, 2019, during the two years you were with the government, why didn't you set it up? We're just in a phase here, I'm not saying it's wrong... And you were even talking about the Ministry of Sport. The novel offers nothing else, and no one wants the Ministry of Sport at this time of year, even if the sport deserves it. [[9.50 hours]] You can see that sport is a thing that officials or managers aren't supposed to define, but it's politics, let's agree here. And no one here is saying - and don't push us - that anyone would like to enter into any grant applications. It just isn't, and it won't be. And again, these people are in a phase that they don't have paid off my club in 2022. Let's hope this changes, and let's hope the Supervisory Committee doesn't have to deal with this at all, and it's all going to go the way it's supposed to go. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u23	Thank you. Once again, Mr Jan Richter and from there. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u24	Thank you. I wanted to comment on two things. One is that, as the previous speakers from the coalition camp spoke, it is true that you met the unions, you met the CUS, you met the Olympic Committee, but you did not reflect their comments. There's not even half of what the unions wanted. That's one thing. And the second thing - I can only say this to the supervisory court: I am also Vice-President of the largest Association of Football Associations of the Czech Republic and we have our supervisory bodies, we follow the UEFA rule, and you are killing the autonomy of these unions with these decisions. Then I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u25	Thank you for keeping time. I still have Mr Radek Vondráček's written application, so it is factual from the point of view afterwards. [[Mr Kubíček reporting from his post.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u26	Thank you. I'm still sorry. Maybe it didn't come out of my post. I wanted to ask you what's so pressing, why it has to be right now, and why we can't have the problem of this wannabe court, which is ambiguous, which inspires different interpretations... And we should ensure that every law we adopt in this Chamber of Deputies is not immediately needed for any additional interpretation, as it is. We should make the laws so that when someone reads it, they understand - it's supposed to be simple, it's supposed to be clear, it's not supposed to be confusing. So I wanted to ask really constructively what is stopping us from correcting this mistake, and why it is so very important that it is called a court and that there is a risk of unconstitutionality, because it interferes with the autonomy of associations in this disciplinary area, the principle of separation from the state and the principle that it is essentially self-governing and freedom of association in this republic. So I'm really asking a humble constructive question, why it's pushing so hard, why it even pushed through 14 days ago, today it's point number 1... I get it, it's the gros of the sports environment, but why can't we fix this? Because I think even those who submit it need to know that it's not okay, because Mr. Brodec's argument is that the trial was actually set up by the internal regulation, so now it's just being rewritten into the law, so the court doesn't actually rule by law. It's written in Mr. Brodec's argumentary. But I'm just saying, if excrement was created last half of the year, then if we put it into law now, it's still excrement. That means it's time to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u27	Thank you. And from the point of view of Mr Roman Kubíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would return to why the National Sports Agency was founded. It was created so that very quickly in some programs money got to individual users of individual subsidies. As far as the supervisory board is concerned, I did not notice that it would be the supervisory board of the German type, that is, it is a classic supervisory board that controls the management of the National Sports Agency. That's one. And I don't want to assume whether or not they're supposed to be politicians - if they're economists, it's perfectly okay for me. I can say I'm probably not gonna be here far from every mayor of the community being an economist in a way, so in this case, I have no reservation. But what really bothers me is the amount of money that came to the National Sports Agency. There was a goal that said that the funds would be increased, and the basis was to get the funds to the smallest divisions and to get the funds into large investment actions that municipalities were unable to cover out of their money in any way. It's kind of dropped out, and I admit, because somehow I was sitting on the National Sports Council, and we were dealing with a lot of things, that it was a hard and actually unfinished birth. So some things I'm sure I'm counting on, and some things, especially about allocated funds, are a profound disappointment to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u29	Thank you, this has provoked another reaction and again a factual one - Mr Pavel Klíma. I point out that we are still in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u30	Just a response to Mr Kubíček. You've spoken several times about the Supervisory Board. It doesn't say anything like that. There's a supervisory committee. On purpose, it's a term. The Supervisory Board has its legal content, which is why the Supervisory Committee is there, and I would like it to sound on the microphone. And as a response: it clearly states that membership of the Supervisory Commission is a public function performed free of charge. It's just that it was mentioned here at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u31	Thank you and one more factual one, Mr David Šimek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u32	I dare, Madam Vice-President, through you, to respond to my colleague Kubíček. I agree with you that Czech sport deserves more money and I believe that it will be in the coming years. But we also need to find the tools to get the money to the target applicants at all, because so far we are at the stage that billions remain on the accounts of the agency and where they were supposed to go, basically the last two years haven't come at all. So I guess the main goal now is to get the new management of the agency at all all the money that's remained in the account for the last two years to send it to all the applicants. Then, ideally, there is an opportunity for funds to be found in the budgets of the coming years for new applicants' applications, and I believe that funding will certainly be found in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u33	Thank you, and so if no one else is reporting, the appellant is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u34	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have tried not to smash the debate with factual input, so now I will try to respond to all the points that have been raised in the debate. It's legitimate. I'll start from the back. The diversity of factual opinions belongs to politics, I'm not sorry at all, I just thank you, the world is supposed to be of opinion color, but one thing I'm sorry about here is that you haven't reflected the comments of the unions at all. So I am asking you, I am offering you from this place publicly, I am able to forward to you written confirmations from October of this year, when it is by the comprehensive amendment that we have incorporated all the comments from all the roofing sports organizations, which are not part of the possibility of unofficial commentation - they are not part of inter-sector commentary proceedings, no one thinks about them in this regard, that is, it was our private initiative, when we were actually through the traceable structured instrument that you all know, through Google Forms, enabled the sports environment, all the key sports associations, all the roof organisations, to comment on the proposal and the way of the comprehensive - the comprehensive amendment, not the complex one, which I would be wrong to mark - the overall amendment we have incorporated all the comments. I could quote the opinions of the Czech Union of Sport from 10. 10., opinions of the Association of Sports Associations, this is the second largest roof sports organization after the Czech Union sport from 10. 10th of this year, the opinions of the Czech Association of University Sports, the Czech Association of Technical University Sports, the Association of School Sports Clubs, that is, the key sports organizations that thank you for all their factual comments being incorporated into the proposal. So I'm trying to disprove this place, that was probably the only obvious untruth that came out here. [[10.00 hours]] I would like to stress two things about the function of the Supervisory Committee. The National Sports Agency - who knows the structure of the Czech central authorities of the state administration, is a total of 17 of the 17 central authorities of the state administration, which are defined in Section 2 of the competence law, the National Sports Agency is the only central body of the government, which has a grant character and which distributes large billions of crowns. Yesterday's drawdown was at the level of approximately 6.1 billion crowns. Who you're monitoring the implementation of the state budget, of all 17, the NSA is the only central body of the state administration that has a grant character. And the fact that there should be a standard control mechanism for public institutions, central government bodies - and these are two different sets that have a subsidy character and divide billions from the state budget - that there should be a standard control mechanism, a standard, continuous, continuous supervisory body, so if anyone has doubts about it, I personally think that the distribution of billions should be controlled. We live in representative democracy, so I have never been ashamed, I have stressed at second reading that I think that if we live in parliamentary democracy, there should be a will from both chambers of Parliament to establish a supervisory or supervisory body. This is, please, the standard principle of our parliamentary democracy. In addition to the fact that the Supervisory Commission will not be able to fulfil its audit role, I will just stress a few very strong competences that the Supervisory Commission has in the proposal so that we do not reduce its role. Firstly, the amendment - and this was cooperation with colleagues from the ANO movement, we tuned the frequency - has a statutory minimum number of meetings per year, which, of course, does not prevent even more frequency. Secondly, members of the new governing body, that is, the NSA Council, are obliged to attend the Supervisory Commission's invitation to meetings of the Supervisory Commission, to submit the authorities, to provide the required explanations and so on. Thirdly, in identifying the shortcomings in the management of the National Sports Agency of the Supervisory Commission, it adopts a resolution that the Prime Minister is taking an initiative to inform, of course, the Board. Fourthly, in the event of the malfunction of the National Sports Agency - and I was here last time at the second reading asking a rhetorical question, to which you can answer each other, whether these last few years have worked well or have failed - the National Sports Agency can initiate, that is, you have the strongest instrument, it does not decide, but it can initiate the Prime Minister's appeal to the members of the collective management body, that is, the National Sports Agency Council. So much for the Supervisory Committee. Whoever thinks the operation of controls is wrong, then I understand the arguments against them. Who thinks that functional control, equipped with sufficient mechanisms that I have now specifically named, is the right step in the distribution of state billions, grant billions, so I think it should support the amendment. The second mention in Mr Richter's speech, through Madam President, was that the amendment does not bring anything else factual. Here are two notes and a few specific examples, because I like to speak in fact. First of all, it brings everything that has actually said to the sports environment that it wants to add to the novel, that is, really all the comments. I also offer it publicly, contact me, soldier cares, soldier has, so I offer to send really confirming email messages to all the commemorating sports roofing organizations that their comments have been incorporated. That might be the end of it, but I'm here with a few of the essential things that the novel brings in a matter of fact... because narrowing the amendment only to the managing authority and to the control authority is certainly wrong. I understand the argument again if you're opposed, but the amendment brings a lot of other things. Annual action plans are missing in Czech sport. Who you are from the corporate sphere or from the well-functioning ammunition, so hopefully that every year you have action plans for the tasks you want to perform, you have those action plans linked to the budget process, whether in the company or in the municipalities, that's what the novel brings, that's what we don't have in the National Sports Agency today. To this day, the National Sports Agency should only prepare preventive programmes against influencing sports results. But for God's sake, we have a lot of other negative phenomena in sport - racism, violence, doping, that means a clear task, the legal task of the National Sports Agency to deal with these other negative phenomena in sport, which brings up this novel. The obligation of regular and continuous communication with the sports environment. When there were falling and justified complaints about the fact that the National Sports Agency had failed to communicate with the sports environment, the obligation of continuous, regular communication, including the evaluation of the communication, including feedback, the amendment brings this. Fourthly, and I totally agree with you, the register of sports from the perspective of technology, from the perspective of technology, application, is certainly a wasted opportunity at this point. I am on the committee of several sports clubs from small sports and I know well that the register of sports does not help us technologically at this moment. This means the legal task of the National Sports Agency for the regular and continuous development of the sport register, now I mean the register as an application to help the sports environment, another task. There are two major sports events next year, in 2024 there are four major sports events. The fact that today the National Sports Agency does not have in its legal tasks to coordinate and maintain the prospect of sporting events in some medium term and informs the government and any government on a regular basis when it changes after the elections, after any election, the political representation of this country, so I think any government will appreciate that it will have an extraordinary importance on the table at the mid-term intervals of major sporting events. These are the World Championships, the European Championships, and they will have it updated six months in the three-year medium term so that the government is not confronted with how it happened this year and the government has granted it, it takes 60 million crowns, if I am not mistaken, for the January World Ski Championship in Spindleruv Mlyn, so that the government is not confronted with the ad hoc decision-making of the money that it learns about a few months before, not in the three-year horizon. I could go on like this and bring a lot of other positive points in the novel. In the speeches of colleagues, honored colleagues Jan Richter and Ondřej Babka, again through Madam Presidentes, there were arguments on the budget and arguments were made by, say, the parties to administrative internal, administrative management processes at the National Sports Agency. Indeed - now I have to say this - the amendment to the Sport Support Act does not really solve this. The money for sport is the state budget, which is where I think the steps have been taken. He can always be better, but I think he was. I don't want to comment any more, it's just not part of this novel. And the matter of internal administrative management organizational mechanisms is not a case report that belongs to the law. The last, perhaps, dominant area, was the area of the honored colleague Radek Vondráček, the National Court of Arbitration for Sport. I tried as briefly as possible in my opening self, then I didn't really respond to it, so I'm going to try to sum it up again. Unlike my honored colleague Radek Vondráček, who - and I find his opinion as a lawyer, as Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I very much appreciate - my subjective legal opinion, which I do not take away from him, as a result. He means there's a mistake in the law. I could argue the same way here -- well, all the petitioners believe there is no error in the law. And unlike such sources, and I said it quite openly here, I was surprised that there was an anonymous article on such a site as the First News, and there was no legal authority signed under it. I don't want to make it a legal authority race right now. Unlike my colleague Radek Vondráček, by means of Madam President, when I met this article, I addressed Professor Brodec, who - please, anyone in this House, will do a research on the area of dispute resolution in sports law, and I think that you will come up with two strong personalities, I point out that I am not in any way bound by Professor Brodco, I saw him for the first time in cooperation on this amendment - so do a search and I think that you will come up with two names, Mr. Brodec from the Faculty of Law in Prague and Dr. Šťovíček. I think it's two of the strongest names in sports law, whether material or sport law. [[10.10 hours]] I have pointed out here that Professor Brodec - and I have very much respected the decision of the previous President of the National Sports Agency appointed by the previous Government, appointed Mr. Professor Brodec as President of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport, I did not find out until summer when I was looking for who the President of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport - because I think that, as with any other law - and I think that the opposition may be quite right to call such standards as, she is in the EKLEP, she is undoubtedly going to the House, for example, the amendment to the State Attorney's Act - so that she communicates with the target group, that is with the state prosecutor and with the structure, which is probably right, for God's sake, not wrong. So we have actually addressed the National Court of Arbitration for Sport as the submitters. This brought me to the personality of the President of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport, already appointed by the previous President of the National Sports Agency. He's the one we tuned the lyrics to. Unlike anonymous sources, I'm not ashamed to cover for the petitioner here by a much higher authority than the Haas district lawyer standing here in front of you. I'm not ashamed to work with an expert in the area. The competencies - I hardly belong to it, but if there wasn't such a debate about it, I wouldn't quote it - maybe there was a FAČR here. I beg you, and my colleagues from the opposition have this at their disposal from me, except that Professor Brodec - and now it is not a PR for him, I would not really mention it, if his legal position had not been called into question here - he is a) previously appointed President of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport, he is included in the list of judges of the Football Association of the Czech Republic, he is registered in the list of judges of the Vienna International Arbitration Centre, he is listed in the list of referees of the Arbitration Court at the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic and the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic, he is the largest Czech arbitration court, he is a judge in the field of legal relations with abroad and as the only representative of the Czech Republic - es ist, which I have checked, historically it was not so - at this moment he is the only representative of the Czech Republic with the highest arbitration international authority in the field of sport. Who you are in the area of sport law procedural, you know that the highest authority is the International Sports Arbitration Court in Lausanne, Switzerland. You know the case of Pechsteinová, Mutu and so on. So Dr. Brodec is the only one, and he appreciates it Swiss - or this international sports arbitration court is set up under Swiss law, there is no automatic claim of every state to the position of arbitrator. This means, it is an appreciation of the sports authorities, the international competences of Mr. Docent Brodec, and in addition, he is a lecturer at the Faculty of Law in Prague. So I won't be so categoric as to say to my colleague Vondráček that the law is flawed, here he said: the law is right. We believe, after a very responsible debate, it had to happen quickly, actually in the three days of last week, because the article - I was confronted with it on Wednesday morning, and with the position of the Czech Olympic Committee - so in those three days we were among the petitioners, it is not one man show Karel Haas, so I discussed very responsibly the argument of the Czech Olympic Committee, one lawyer whose role I am not reducing at all, Dr. Károlyi, in some way you can look at the competence of Dr. Károlyi's researches, so I have done the same thing as possible, meaning in principle by addressing the highest authority both from the point of view that he is the head of the institution that applies the matter, so at the same time he is both academic and expert authority, so I secured a written opinion signed electronically and given by the opposition. Everything for me at this moment. I'd like to ask you to support this proposal. I will end as I started: Whoever wants to change the National Sports Agency for the better is looking for solutions and the solutions are reflected in the bill. Anyone who doesn't want to change the National Sports Agency for the better, I think he's more looking for reasons not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u35	I also thank you, and this speech brought about two factual ones - Mr Radek Vondráček, on the one hand, and then Mr Aleš Dufek reporting. And so now the Member may take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u36	That won't take that long. I'm just gonna react. I mentioned the article, but since it's not authorized, I didn't work with it. Of course he came to me by email, but I was based on the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Czech Olympic Committee on 6 December 2022, where they refer, or the designation is considered inappropriate by the arbitration court and contrary to the Arbitration Act, because you yourself admit that this is not a permanent arbitration court within the meaning of the Arbitration Act within the meaning of Act No. 216/1994 Coll. We have historical experience here in the Czech Republic. At the time, various quasi-courts were set up and decided many things, in particular concerning various consumer disputes relating to financial loans, insurance. It was a relatively large business and it was all cut down by the case law of higher courts, which said that such courts could not exist. So, according to arbitration or arbitration law, you can choose your ad hoc arbitrator, or you can turn to a permanent arbitration court that exists and is founded by law. This isn't any of it. And so it is. So I just wanted to conclude by asking if there's any chance, the esteemed government coalition, that you could fix it in the Senate, when there's obviously no will, and for some reason I respect that there's some union comments, which I can't see, that's what I'm going to be happy about. I am expressing some doubts that the style of the general amendment at second reading has indeed shortened the parliamentary debate, but my comment has not only been settled with the fact that you think otherwise. Yes, we'll look forward to that. It just can't go on. I have a different legal opinion, that's legitimate, but I'm appealing to the coalition's representative to see if there's anything else we can do about it in the Senate. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u37	Thank you. I'm gonna reload an apology. Mr Kubík apologizes from 10 to 12 hours for health reasons. So, for the last time, I ask, is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the debate. Now will I ask if there is interest in the final words? Neither the rapporteur nor the proposer, and therefore we can proceed to the proposals concerning the vote. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. First of all, we will vote on the proposal put forward by Mr Radek Vondráček, and it is a proposal to repeat the second reading. Let me just see if the numbers are coming up. That's right. And once again, so everyone knows what we're voting on. We will first vote on the proposal to return to second reading, to repeat second reading. I am initiating this vote and I am asking who is in favour of repeating the second reading? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes repeating second reading? In vote number 29, 168 votes were cast, for 58, against 102. This proposal has not been adopted. In addition, a motion for rejection has been tabled, and the committee has been discussing it, so I would like to ask the rapporteur's committee's opinion to say...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u38	The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u39	Thank you and the applicant's position on the motion for rejection? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I am opening the vote on the motion to dismiss this law. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 30, 169 Members voted for 56 against 106. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments and I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to introduce us to the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the procedure as recommended by the Guarantee Education Committee: Firstly, the proposal for rejection, which we have already voted on. Secondly, these are legislative technical adaptations if they are presented at the third reading. Thirdly, Amendments E1 to E3. It is true that if the E2 is approved, the A35 to A37 is unvoting. Fourthly, Amendments B1. Fifth Amendment C1.2. If this C1.2 is approved, C1.1 is non-voting. Sixth, if C1.2 is not approved, vote C1.1. For the seventh time, all Amendments A, as amended by the amendments and supplements referred to in paragraphs 3 to 6 of this procedure. If A is approved, B2 is unvoting. For the eighth time, unless A is approved, vote B2. For the ninth amendment D and for the tenth draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u41	Thank you, rapporteur. Now, there would be room for counterproposals, but before that, there will be room for the vote before that. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u42	Thank you. Only for the screen record: I voted against the previous vote, but I have a pro on the high. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u43	Also, thank you, it was only for the log. And now back to the procedure. Is there any proposal to amend it or amend it? It's not like that. So I'm going to vote on this proposed procedure. Who's in favour of this procedure? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 31, 169 voted for 166, against 0. The procedure has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u44	Thank you. There was now to be a vote on legislative technical adjustments, but now no one has applied with legislative technical amendments, so we are coming to paragraph 3 of the vote. And so these are amendments E1 to E3 where I will remind you that if E2 is approved, it is unvoting A35 to A37. Proposals E1 to E3 are the legislative technical amendments of Mr Haas resulting from the discussion of the House of Press with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u45	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The number 32 vote was 169 votes for 165, against 1. This proposal was adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u46	Fourthly, it is Amendment B1. This is Mrs Michaela Šebelová's proposal and it is an amendment to the resolution of the guarantee committee. It is proposed to delete the obligation to prepare an annual action plan for promoting sport for the Ministry of Education. Furthermore, the proposal explicitly states that the financial support for school and higher education sport from the state budget is without prejudice to the obligation of municipalities and regions to cover the expenses of legal entities engaged in the activities of schools and educational establishments which they set up. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u47	Thank you. The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 33, 169 Members voted in favour of 105, against 56. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u48	The next vote is Amendment C1.2. In doing so, I will remind you once again that if C1.2 is approved, then C1.1 is unvoting. This is a proposal, both of which are Mr Ondřej Babka's proposals. Proposal C1.2 proposes that a requirement for the chair, vice-chairman and member of the Board of the National Sports Agency be deleted to have a higher education. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u49	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? In vote number 34, 169 voted for 57, against 101. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u50	As an alternative to the previous proposal, Mr Ondřej Babka's proposal was tabled under number C1.1, which would reduce the requirement for the education of both the President and the Vice-President and a member of the National Sports Agency in such a way that it would be sufficient to have an education at a bachelor's level and that Master's education would not be necessary. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u51	I'm just sorry, rapporteur, I have a point here that it is no longer unvoted in the event of approval... Yes, it is. We're voting again, of course. Opinion: not recommended. And the plaintiff, please? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I have begun the vote on this proposal and I ask who is in favour of this proposal? Who opposes this proposal? Once again, in vote number 35, 169 voted for 75 against 86. Again, it was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u52	We will now vote on proposals A1 through A34. These are amendments to the amendments and supplements referred to in paragraphs 3 to 6 of this procedure and I will remind you once again that if A is approved, B2 is unvoting. It is now Mr Haas' amendments, which are contained in the resolution of the Guarantee School Committee of the 16th meeting of 19 October. This is a comprehensive amendment responding to a broad discussion on the committee. The proposal concerns various areas, among other things it explicitly defines what is meant by school sport and defines the obligations of the Ministry of Education in this area. It also introduces an obligation to communicate on an ongoing and regular basis by the National Sports Agency with sports organisations and limits the number of terms of office for which members of the National Sports Agency's Board may be appointed. Let me remind you that this is A1 to A34 and the opinion of the guarantee committee: it recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u53	Thank you. The plaintiff? [[Agreed.]] Thank you, too. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this suggestion: Let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? In the 36 vote, 168 votes were cast, for 161, against 3. This proposal was adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u54	Since we have approved the previous proposal, there will now be no voting proposal 8, which means B2. We will therefore proceed to the vote in paragraph 9, that is, Amendment D, and it is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal. This proposal provides as a mandatory part of the Audit Plan of the Supreme Audit Office for each financial year also for the control of the National Sports Agency. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u55	Thank you. The plaintiff? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I have begun the vote on this last amendment. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 37, 168 Members voted, for it was 71, against 88. This proposal was rejected. And if I am not mistaken, have we dealt with all the amendments, Mr rapporteur? [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] Thank you, that's right. [[10.30 hours]] We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the motion of Members of Karel Haas and others to issue a law amending Act No. 115/2002 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and certain other laws, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I've started the vote. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? In the 38 vote, 168 Members and Members were enrolled, for 107, against zero. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank both the rapporteur and the appellant. We've dealt with this whole point. I will now hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-001-103.u56	Good morning. We're getting to the next point, and that's
