ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u1	106. Budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2023 and the medium-term outlook for the years 2024 and 2025 /German press 325/ This material will be provided by Minister of Transport Martin Kupka. I beg him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the draft budget and the medium-term outlook of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. The budget represents a record value, a total of CZK 150.9 billion. It is an amount necessary to continue all the constructions that have been contracted and built, but at the same time to start the constructions that the Czech Republic has long been counting on, to which the Czech Republic has long been heading and representing the repayment of the historical infrastructure debt. From national sources, CZK 120.3 billion is expected to be released, plus CZK 30.7 billion will be debt financing. That's what we've been talking about today. These are the funds that we are already talking about and discussing with the European Investment Bank, and we are opening up other financing instruments so that, not only in the next year, but also in the coming years, we have the tools to finance the necessary infrastructure needs. In that next year we expect a lower rate of drawing European funds, a saddle will appear in relation to European finances, namely CZK 27,6 billion. This is not anyone's fault, it is simply given by a specific mix of those individual projects, where, in the transitional period between the two programming periods, there are simply fewer projects financed from the European Union. The distribution of expenditure between the two key items, investments and non-investments - the investment will be CZK 104.3 billion, in investments CZK 46.6 billion. [[non-investments?]] I would also like to state what concrete money will be built up next year. As I mentioned, this means continuing the construction of key projects such as the D3 motorway, the D6 motorway, where we will also start with other sections, the D35 motorway, the D55 motorway, if I mention the motorway constructions. We should start building a key section of D11 next year between the state border with Poland and Trutnov. At the same time, we should start with the completion of the last part of D1 at Přerov. A total of more than 240 kilometres of motorways and class 1 roads are being built at the moment, and it will be necessary to start with further kilometres next year. I just mentioned that the basic view of the most important one is not complete, but I don't want to keep you any longer than it is necessary. But I will also mention what will take place in the area of railway infrastructure. We will continue with the key projects on the first corridor. We will continue to build the whole node of Pardubice and finish next year's section of modernisation of the first corridor between Ústí nad Orlicí and Brandýs nad Orlicí. This will also mean a significant relief in terms of rail transport on the main corridor. After many years of preparation, we will establish a key construction of a new railway connection between the centre of Prague, Václav Havel Airport and Kladno. Likewise, we will continue to modernize the busy arteries of Prague - Beroun as well as the busy arteries Prague - Lysá nad Labem. What is important to mention is further investment in the construction of ETCS, i.e. security system, which should make the Czech railway significantly safer. Along with this, there are many modernizations of railway buildings, but also investments in railway crossings for greater safety. [[18.00 hours]] The debate on why we are using, why we are opening a fan of other financial instruments has already been here today. All I will mention is that the government's decision to take this path is based on the unanimous consent of the House to ensure the necessary funds for investment, at the same time the entire House agrees that the PPP path is correct and it is clear that PPP is nothing else as we know it but our efforts to secure so-called long money and other possible routes. We are discussing with the Ministry of Finance what instruments we will use for next year and will, of course, choose the best possible form for the state during the year. I believe that, in this form, the budget for next year is presented as really responsible for the fact that the value of a specific, numerical, at the same time represents actually an image of the Czech Republic's internal debt and of what constitutes an obstacle to the further development of the economy. I believe that the way the budget has been prepared and, as I hope today, we will strongly approve that this means a significant promise for both further development and stabilization of all those who are active in the field of transport, whether they are design offices, stable construction companies, and, of course, all those who use the Czech motorways, roads, railways and, of course, watercourses. Thank you very much for your attention and for supporting the proposal for both the budget itself and the medium-term perspective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I wish you a good evening. This House press has discussed the economic committee whose resolution has been delivered as House prints 325/1. I am asking the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Ondřej Lochman, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u4	Thank you. Good evening, fellow Members of the Government, Mr President. As has been said, yes, this paper number 325 has been discussed by the Economic Committee on 3 November 2022, and has authorised me to inform on the results of our discussion and on the Transport Infrastructure Fund for 2023 and the medium term perspective. The Committee has discussed the proposal and recommends that this matter be discussed and approved. I will not speak in detail again about what the Minister has already said. I'll add some of the main numbers for recaps and maybe some details. For 2023 it is therefore 150.9 billion, and of which it is 65.46 billion for state investors, ŘSD, i.e. the Road and Motorway Directorate, 70.36 billion for railways and 1.15 billion for the Waterways Directorate. From the point of view of funding, we have a cover for both the state budget and European funds. In terms of European funds, this is the sum of 27.54 billion and it is mainly the drawdown from the OPD, CEF and CRR programmes. With regard to individual expenditures, roads and motorways will go according to this document, if we approve it, in the next year 61.9 billion and 39.1 of which would go into roads and motorways directly for investment. The runway is 54.2 billion, of which 32.2 billion for investments. Of course, we also discussed topics such as security or crossing of roads relating to safety and the crossing of roads - for example, I will pierce here - will be allocated 400 million crowns. An amount of 1.3 billion is allocated to the so-called ETCS, i.e. track security and all accompanying devices. These are probably the main numbers I would like to add or repeat. Perhaps I would still say that it is very important - and this is also in line with the government statement - and information for regional representatives, that out of CZK 4 billion there is an increase to CZK 6 billion on 2nd and 3rd class roads, and here it is both repairs and investments in them. This will then be divided into regions by the SFDI Fund. So that's the basic information. As I have already said, after discussion, we recommend that this House press number 325 be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u5	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I'm gonna load up my apologies. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes from 17:00 for reasons of work, and from 18:00 for reasons of work, Mr Jakub Michálek apologizes. I am opening a general debate and asking who is applying for it? Mr. Mr. kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u6	Thank you for the floor. I will quickly state the position of the YES movement. I hope that it will be brief and divided into two parts. In the first part, I comment on the content of the material presented, what was presented by Minister Kupka. I'll be positive. In the other, I will return briefly once again to our different view of the debt financing, and since it has been very long discussed here in the morning at the large state budget, I will not go back to it for too long. What we certainly want to appreciate and appreciate is the pace at which the current government continues to do what was prepared during the previous government in the transport infrastructure, which went through approval processes, through authorisation processes not only through funding, but also through changes in legislation on which we agreed in the previous House across the political spectrum, line law 416 and so on. So we can certainly appreciate and appreciate what was mentioned, ETCS on the railroad. We have waited with suspense to see how the new government stands up to prepare high-speed lines, and I acknowledge that you have put the topic of high-speed lines in the programme statement and that you are holding it. Here, if I may add, in the budget of the Railway Administration, 1.5 billion are allocated to the preparation of those lines for next year, just for preparation, and that is certainly something that can be appreciated. We also strongly perceive the continuation of the pace at the Road and Motorway Directorate. The D35, D55 and others were mentioned. So much for the content, what we constructively appreciate as opposition. The second part is once again our dispute, where we simply see things differently. Here I will repeat briefly: we still see the difference in the state budget item in the Transport Minister chapter, where the subsidy item for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure simply does not sit with the item that is now in this print 325, i.e. the revenue of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure from national sources, 92 versus just over 123 billion. It is also a reason for us that the YES movement will not vote in favour of this House press. We didn't even support him on the Economic Committee. As I said, although we are converging in content, we appreciate the pace that Martin Kupka is holding at the Ministry of Transport, and unfortunately because of the construction and its impact on the draft state budget, or the state budget and budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, we cannot support this press. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u7	Thank you. I'm asking, who else is joining the general debate? I don't see anyone. If so, I am ending the general debate. I want to ask the Minister's final words or the rapporteur's... not so. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate? I ask the rapporteur to present a motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u8	Then I will introduce you to the motion for a resolution. I'm gonna make this very simple. We have only one simple resolution, and that is that "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has discussed and approved the House print 325, the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2023 and the medium-term outlook for the years 2024 and 2025, as presented.' If we approve, this will become a reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-007-106.u9	First of all, I'm registering for your check-out, so I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. For the record, I have concluded a detailed debate, the motion for a resolution has been read. The number of entries has stabilized. And I would put to the vote on the motion for a resolution as it was read in a detailed debate. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 138, 136 Members and Members registered, for 76, against 57. This motion for a resolution has been agreed with. I'm done discussing this point. [[18.10 hours]] I'll read an apology. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová has been apologizing since 18 o'clock for family reasons. And I'm opening another point, and that's it.
