ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and Act No. 265/1991 Coll., on the competence of the authorities of the Czech Republic in the field of prices, as amended /German press 302/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the material presented, the bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 265/1991 Coll., on the competence of the authorities of the Czech Republic in the field of prices, as amended. Ladies and gentlemen, today is our chance to ensure protection against high energy prices for citizens of the Czech Republic. It is clear that the Russian Federation's aim is to damage Europe's people and economies as much as possible, and let us put it plainly, it has good conditions for this. Europe has been very dependent on Russian gas and is now quickly seeking alternative suppliers. Russia could thus manipulate the price of gas by reducing its supply to Europe. Very sensitive markets then responded to this by rapidly increasing prices, and the price of electricity, which is growing just as fast, is also derived from gas prices. And all of this is reflected in the prices that a customer pays for energy. However, specific developments in markets are difficult to predict. This summer, for example, the rise in electricity prices has negatively affected the drought that has affected some states and has significantly reduced production in hydropower plants, as well as the outage of nuclear power plants in France. What will hit Europe's energy prices in the autumn is hard to predict and the situation has ceased to be sustainable. That is why we have decided with our government colleagues that we will protect citizens against the effects of this development and determine maximum amounts and introduce regulation of electricity and gas prices. As a result, citizens will be clear about how much they will pay for energy. The price ceiling will allow us to adopt an amendment to the Energy Act approved by the government on 14 September at its extraordinary meeting. We will be able to approach the ceiling if there is an exceptional market situation. And this extraordinary market situation has arisen, so we will set a definitive ceiling for prices immediately after this amendment has been approved. In addition to ceilinging energy prices, the government will also be able to determine other details thanks to the amendment. In the first place, the group to which this lower price will apply and the scope of the collection to which the regulated price will apply. We will definitely determine these parameters in the government regulation, which we will approve immediately after the amendment passes through the entire legislative process. After Monday's government meeting, however, we promised that the ceiling price of one kilowatt hour of electricity would be CZK 6; the maximum price of one kilowatt hour of gas would be CZK 3 CZK. As early as Monday, we also promised that the ceilinged electricity prices would apply to all entities connected to low voltage levels. This means that for households, small entrepreneurs as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises that are connected to low voltage levels. We also agreed with our government colleagues that if the proposed energy price reduction measure by the European Commission is now approved, we will also introduce price ceilings for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are connected to high and very high voltage levels. According to the Commission's approved measures, this ceiling may be slightly limited to undertakings in this respect, not to all their consumption but, for example, to 80 per cent of their maximum annual consumption over the last five years. The amendment that we are presenting today also makes it possible. Furthermore, it follows from this amendment that the regulated price will automatically be reflected in the contracts between the supplier and the customer, so customers will not have to negotiate a change or ask for something. Price regulation will be valid from 1 January 2023, however, the ceiling prices will be taken into account in customer advances this year, no later than 30 days after the government regulation. The price ceiling will include a few more rules. It is true that if the customer has a lower energy price than the regulated one, the customer will, of course, be entitled to the agreed lower price. In addition, a customer with a fixed price higher than the government price fixed will be entitled to adjust his energy price. Any customer who is entitled to a ceiling price shall have the right to conclude a delivery contract with the relevant supplier of the last instance if he so requests. Therefore, none of the customers will remain without their supplier. Last but not least, the amendment introduces a rule that energy traders will, of course, be entitled to reimbursement of a proven loss and a reasonable profit. With a request for their reimbursement, they will contact the energy market operator, OTE. This market operator shall immediately forward the request for control and observations to the Energy Regulatory Authority and subsequently pay the request in the event of its approval. The parameters and method of calculating the verifiable loss and reasonable profit will also be specified in the Government Regulation. The draft law was discussed by the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on 15. 9. 2022 and recommended to Members to approve the draft law as amended by the Government proposal. [[12.00 hours]] In view of the urgency of the adoption of the proposed amendment, it is proposed to discuss the amendment in question in a state of legislative emergency within the meaning of Article 99 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. This exceptional procedure is proposed in the light of the current energy crisis, which is a financial threat to most consumers in the Czech Republic. One of the worst feelings in man's life is uncertainty about his future, and the current very dynamic development of prices brought exactly these feelings to Czech households. That is why we and our government colleagues have decided to take the path of ceilinging energy prices, which will rid the citizens of the Czech Republic of the feelings of uncertainty. We do not promise the impossible, we cannot afford to spend more than hundreds of billions of crowns. However, we are proposing a solution that is sensitive to citizens, and we are also thinking about the state budget and its implications. I therefore believe that this amendment will receive great support across the entire Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. The Economic Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 302/1. Now, I ask that Mr Ivan Adamec take the floor of the Committee on Economic Affairs, inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u4	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, fellow Members, first of all, let me say that this time the preparation of the material for the Committee on Economic Affairs was perfectly sound. All the materials were on time, and since this is a state of legislative emergency, we cannot, of course, assume that the material will lie in the system of order in weeks. That's reality, that's what it was. I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by the quality of the proposal, I think most members of the Economic Committee also appreciated it. But, of course, we found some things in there that I'm about to talk about, which is worth thinking about, if that's all right, or if maybe somebody doesn't have a different opinion about it. As an economic committee, we had been planning a trip to Dukovan for six months, and the extraordinary situation that is here at the moment touched unfortunately this exit, when we were supposed to be somewhere else today and when we had to shorten the tour of the nuclear power plant by the reactor plant, because there was simply no time for that, because we were discussing this bill. I must say that the economic committee has acted very pragmatically, very professionally. Of course, there were some suggestions that maybe someone would make an amendment today, my colleague Kubíček reported it, I think it's legitimate. I know there are a number of amendments in the system, some of which change the diction of the bill completely. I'd like to say two more things here. One thing is that I'm dividing the law into two parts. One, which concerns the relationship of the manufacturer - supplier - customer, concerns the powers of the Energy Regulatory Authority, also the fact that the State can prohibit the sale of energy to a third party, is very important in my view, and there are all these rules as to how it will work in relation to those price-trended ones. This part of the bill will probably not be the subject of major discussions. I have here the only comment that fell at the meeting of the Economic Committee, a small legislative technical problem I will not mention here, but the notion of an extraordinary market situation. I confess that, of course, the argument that the Constitutional Court has already decided somewhere that it is okay like this... I am always careful, I would rather define this term precisely so that there can be no possible litigation, as it was at the time of the covid, when a number of government measures ended on these very formal shortcomings. I say that quite frankly. But, on the other hand, no one from the Economic Committee questioned that it would not have to be this way. So, after the debate that was there, the Economic Committee decided to adopt a resolution that I will now introduce you to. And I forgot to tell the other part - how to do the splash. Well, I guess that's what the debate is about now. I understand that, of course, the opposition is in advantage, because at the moment it can make stronger proposals, proposals that might improve the situation unilaterally, perhaps for the population, on the other hand, could also mean that we will have problems with the budget in general, but I will leave that to the opposition, no matter what it says here today, as it needs, as it sees fit. I certainly am not one of those who would question the fact that the opposition should remain silent here, as I have heard here today, and vote in favour of the proposals. Please, it's not like that. On the other hand, I have to say, and it's a bit of a mix-up here lately, and I would like the opposition Members to realize that, and I hope they don't paraphrase me at the moment. When I started in politics, I learned one thing from more experienced people that opposition is good advice for free. Not only criticism, but also good advice for free. So that's what I wanted to point out. The other part is actually a framework, it's the same as it was for the austerity tariff, it's a framework for the issue of government regulations. I think it's a practical instrument, because the government is actually a powerful component that responds to problems - I don't even want to say it - to the energy market. The Economic Committee, for the sake of clarity, unanimously decided by all the Members present on the trip. And I will read you the motion for a resolution. It is the resolution of the 15th meeting of the Economic Committee, which took place on 15 September. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the interpretation of the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela and Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade René Neděla, my report and after the debate, proposes this to the Chamber of Deputies: firstly, we propose that a general debate be held on the bill. We're suggesting it. We also propose that a detailed debate be held here on all parts of the bill. Then we propose to you - to us, the Chamber of Deputies, to end its negotiations on this bill no later than 24 hours on 16 September 2022. [[Noise.]] - I would like to point out that this is not our invention, it is according to the Rules of Procedure. - And recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree to a government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, and Act No. 265/1991 Coll., on the competence of the authorities of the Czech Republic in the field of prices, as amended, House Press No. 302, as amended by the Government Bill. Then I was only empowered by the committee to present this motion for a resolution and to introduce you to the negotiations of the Economic Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I will be available in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate, as the Committee recommends, as the rapporteur has now introduced us. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to vote. Before he gets here, I'll read the apologies. Mr Mašek Jiří apologizes for health reasons for the whole day, Minister Hubáčková Anna at 17 o'clock for personal reasons. That's an apology so far. I've logged interest in the check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to re-enter with your I.D. cards. For newcomers and colleagues, I will repeat what we will now vote on. We will now vote on whether to hold a general debate, as the Economic Committee recommends in its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. The number of people present has gradually settled. I therefore initiate the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 116 in attendance, for all 116. I note that we have adopted the proposal and I am opening a general debate. [[12.10 hours]] In the general debate, there are several entries with priority rights, in the order of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Karel Havlíček, Alena Schillerová, followed by the enrollment of Members and Members as you see them on the board, a total of 14 colleagues and colleagues so far. Now, I ask for a speech with the priority right of President Okamura and President Radim Fiala will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, there will be a government proposal for a ceiling on electricity and gas prices. The SPD has been calling for a splash for months, so it's based on opposition pressure. But Petr Fiala's government has put an extremely high price on energy. So the Čech will pay four times more than the Slovák because of the Fialův Government even after the electricity ceiling. I will repeat this again: due to the Fialův Government, Čech will pay four times more for electricity than Slovák. This is therefore an entirely inadequate solution and a mockery to citizens. The delayed solution presented by the Fialův Government is absolutely inadequate and is again contrary to government promises that it will not let citizens and companies fall. This is a factual increase in electricity by 100 per cent compared to last year and even by 300 per cent for gas. The government of the SPOLU coalition - ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates - has done nothing in the field of the energy crisis since its launch nine months ago. It ignored the proposals of the SPD, experts and solutions adopted by all the other European countries. It was merely waiting for the EU institutions to come up with something for it in Brussels, cursing themselves with a pan-European solution. But it's not. The Government's proposal entrusts the competence to put energy prices exclusively into the hands of the government, which is to set maximum selling prices for electricity and gas by its regulation. The Purple Government has already announced in advance that it wants to set this ceiling very high - at a level of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour of power electricity including VAT and for gas at CZK 3 per kilowatt hour including VAT. Therefore, due to the government of Petr Fiala, the total prices of electricity and gas for consumers, including other regulated charges, will be at the level of CZK 9 per kilowatt hour for electricity and 4 (?) Crowns for one kilowatt hour by the gas. So the Čech will pay four times as much for electricity as the Slovák will. Such prices are totally unacceptable to many citizens, and therefore to the SPD movement. At the same time, our Republic has a surplus of electricity produced in our country. With us, we have a surplus, or we produce more inexpensive electricity than our citizens and companies consume. And if we concluded contracts for the supply of gas and oil directly with their producers and not with German traffickers, the price of these raw materials would be much lower for Czech customers, as is the case, among other things, in Slovakia and Hungary, and we would have cheap electricity and only surpluses sold abroad. Moreover, the neighbouring Slovakia, which I mentioned, has a ceiling price of electricity of 1.50 kroner per kilowatt hour, Austria at 2.50 kroner per kilowatt hour and France even at 1.10 kroner per kilowatt hour of power electricity. The SPD movement has therefore prepared a number of amendments to the Government's proposal, where we want, among other things, to set maximum price ceilings for electricity and gas directly in the law, in various variants that are always lower than the government's proposal, up to CZK 1.50 per kilowatt hour of power electricity and to CZK 1 per kilowatt hour of gas. That's the SPD proposal. In terms of electricity and gas prices for consumers, the government's proposal is pointless high, to liquidation, and does not address the current critical situation in principle and in principle at all. Here I would like to say that the SPD will support any reduction in energy prices. I would like to emphasise this here because we assume that our amendments, which would really put a price on a bearable level, are unfortunately overruled by the government coalition because they have a majority here and do not think about citizens and Czech companies. The government's proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act to introduce the price ceiling of electricity and gas is inadequate and unfair, because it should not concern larger companies and industrial enterprises, which are, however, strongly threatened by high energy prices in terms of their competitiveness and often from the very point of view of their existence, which means the risk of redundancies and losses of up to tens of thousands of jobs. But that doesn't reflect Petr Fiala's government at all. Therefore, as a SPD movement, we will propose a comparison of the conditions for all electricity and gas customers in our territory for the current government amendment to the Energy Act, in particular in the sense that the government's price ceiling on electricity and gas should always apply to all their consumers, small customers and large customers. Moreover, the government's proposal to help large companies with high energy prices is completely unspecific and is intended to cover only a small part of selected companies. His criteria are very dubious, manipulatable and exploitable. In addition, this will only mean a further redistribution of funds from the state budget and an increase in state debt. Ceiling electricity and gas prices for large companies, as suggested by the SPD, is a much cleaner and less expensive solution. According to the Minister of Industry and Trade Síkela from STAN, the setting of price ceilings for industrial enterprises does not allow European, precisely Union, legislation. Even in this example, it is good to see how specifically membership of the European Union is really bad for us and how small the importance of the Czech Presidency, which the government is constantly bragging about. In a time of serious energy, economic and social crisis, the interest of Czech citizens and Czech companies must prevail over EU legislation. But that's what the servile and weak Fialův government can't enforce. The European Union's energy negotiations ended last Friday, as expected, with a fiasco and did not bring any real solution to the price increase. Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS and Minister of Industry Síkela of the STAN movement only deceive people. The SPD's long-term view is confirmed that no European solution to drastically high electricity and gas prices can work. His search is merely an extension of the current crisis, which for many of our households and companies is winding up. The statements by Prime Minister Petr Fiala from ODS and Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela from the STAN movement about the successful results of this meeting are just another lie to the Czech public. This meeting did not produce any results, only a few proposals were recommended, where one is worse than the other. The European Commission prefers a complicated mechanism for electricity producers to transfer part of their revenue to the European Union fund, from which they would be redistributed as compensation to consumers of electricity in the Member States. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS has long refused to accept our national solutions. At this extraordinary EU summit, it has now been confirmed that the vast majority of EU Member States have taken their own measures long ago. [[12.20 hours]] The SPD presented proposals to help our citizens and companies on ten points a few months ago. However, the government has long ignored these proposals. It is, for example, that first fills with the cheap electricity produced in the Czech Republic, which we have surplus, the needs of Czech citizens and companies and even potential surpluses were sold on the EU stock exchange. It is that we negotiate gas directly with the producer, just as the surrounding countries in Central Europe have. To get out, or at least to suspend the emission allowance trading system. That is what the Slovák tried to do, because Petr Fiala's government is such a pussy and is afraid to say it in the European Union, and European Commission President von der Leyenová has shown the true face here. The European Union has said that they will not stop it. So even the European Union is accelerating the expensive electricity prices, because they don't care if citizens have money or not. They're just thinking about their half-million-dollar salary or the other interests that the Euro Commissioner has there. They don't give a damn! They just laughed at us completely! In doing so, we need to step out of this system, completely abolish this system, which is artificially increasing energy, the EU emission allowance system. And we have also presented our proposals for reducing VAT on energy, but also on food, because the government has not said a word about increasing food prices yet. The SPD is repeatedly opening up the subject here. Polák have already reduced VAT to selected basic foods to 0 percent in February, which is why Čech go shopping to Poland because food is cheaper there. Petr Fiala's government is doing nothing! I was here a few months ago calling the invisible minister of agriculture, his name is Nekula, I had to look at the Internet, what's his name, because in three quarters of a year, I didn't even see him perform in the House. I asked him here to get off at the House on a microphone, tell us how he wants to handle expensive food. He said he wouldn't perform. He's probably scared or something! People don't even know the name of the Minister of Agriculture. nekula. It's for KDU-ČSL, so we know who's responsible. And because of this government and because of this Minister Nekul and the incompetent Prime Minister Fial of the ODS, the Čech have unnecessarily expensive food. And they're gonna get expensive. The government doesn't even care! So we also said in food, but also in energy - today is an energy meeting, today is the House meeting. We said, "Stop prices, cut VAT." For fuel, we also said cut VAT. We have repeatedly refuted the lie here, when the Minister of Finance Stanjura and others said: we have reduced the excise tax by a crown of fifty, which is what the European Union does not allow us to do. On the one hand, you have admitted how harmful the European Union is, that it simply keeps us completely in pliers, our republic, and, on the other hand, you have lied because of the excise duty - well, that harmful European Union does not allow us to reduce more, but VAT allows us to reduce, and that is what you have withheld from citizens! And other EU countries have already done so, that they have reduced VAT on fuel. So it would be good if you weren't fooling people, and you just cut fuel taxes! And so is the current legislation of the European Union. You just don't want to do it. You want to pull money out of the citizens' pockets because it brings you more money to the budget, which you then send to God knows where. So government proposals in the field of energy merely fail to address the consequences of the price increase and, moreover, do not address its causes. The SPD presented concrete proposals, there were many proposals here, and I listed only a few of them. And we've presented it to you a lot of times against Fialův's expensive, and finally, for three quarters of a year of inactivity, at least you're going to go at it, even extremely high, so it doesn't really help people in the finals, but for just three quarters of a year, your government has wasted tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of crowns on citizens and companies from their wallets, their hard-earned money, so for three quarters of a year, you're finally going to give it to the SPD's proposal and opposition to talk about cropping prices. But as I was saying, the ceiling is incredibly high, so it's just that you're tricking people before the communal and senate elections that are next week on Friday and Saturday. I go to meetings with the citizens every day. Yesterday I was in Kladno, two days ago in Liberec, on the square, and even citizens complain that you actually made such a trick question. You say, we're gonna put a price on it, and you're counting on the fact that it's not enough for citizens to count it that week before the election, because really, the bill doesn't come to them until the next months, and now you're actually trying to trick the citizens into thinking that you're gonna be putting something down, and you're putting it down, like I said, maybe the price of electricity is gonna be four times the price of Slovák for the Čech. So that's what it is for us to say right here, right here in the House, so that the citizens can hear it, that it doesn't really solve the problem at all, and it's still completely winding up for many citizens. So stop fooling people and stop playing this theater at people. And we really need to accept the systemic and fundamental solutions that the SPD is proposing here. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is also considering introducing a special tax on extraordinary profits for energy and petrochemical companies and the banking sector, the so-called sector tax, windfall tax, but with the intention to wait subserviently and alibistically for decisions and permits from the European Union. However, specific parameters and ideas have not yet been introduced by the government and the possible impacts and risks are not known. For example, it is a risk called. tax optimization, when the companies concerned in response to the introduction of a new special tax can largely artificially reduce their profits and tax bases by various means, and therefore the return of this tax may not be far from fulfilling government expectations. In the banking sector, in this case, there is, in turn, a risk of increasing credit charges and interest and reducing mortgage and loan lending. Government proposals in the field of energy merely fail to address the consequences of the critical situation and not its causes. According to the SPD movement, as I have already said, the long-term system solution is clearly the cessation of electricity trading produced in the Czech Republic through the Lipa commodity exchange and the provision of low-stressed energy prices for Czech citizens, leaving the system of speculative emission allowance trading, the contract for cheap gas directly from the producer and the withdrawal from the EU's crazy Green Deal project. And you really are from Mars because it's, like, Mr. Síkel - he doesn't realize it. Mr. Secretary, you don't realize, because when you walk down the street, most people don't even know you, so they won't tell you. They just don't recognize you. That means they can't tell you, so you don't have feedback. That's the trouble. When I go somewhere, the whole Republic knows me, which is why they call me - every day I have feedback from the citizens of the Czech Republic, which I meet on the street, at a gas station, just wherever I go, and where I go to buy, so citizens address me and tell me their problems. That may be why you're so distracted, Minister, from the reality. [[Commentary of Minister Síkela.]] And now the Minister tells me I'm a comedian. Minister Síkela for the STAN movement, which is intertwined with organized crime, corruption and mob relations, tells me that I am a comedian when I defend citizens here and want cheap electricity prices for them. This is Minister of Industry and Trade for the Government of Petr Fiala! Now he tells me I'm a comedian when I'm here fighting for the citizens to have the cheapest energy possible while you're here, Minister, for three quarters of a year doing nothing! You've been avoiding journalists since spring at press conferences. Journalists complained that you even banned questions after your press conference that you were incompetent, because you don't know what hits energy, all the big industrial companies complain about you, that you don't communicate with them, that you're arrogant, and you're confusing professional concepts, hall balla, the whole republic is already laughing at you in the media! If anyone's a comedian, you're here, live! And you should resign. And instead of dealing with citizens' problems, you're wasting your time in the Ministry putting up a Ukrainian flag. So me, too, when I had a foreign visit here, they said, is that some kind of Ukrainian ministry? Is this a building? They got it all wrong. You've got it all mixed up, your priorities! That means... But she's not that funny, Minister! With your own incompetence and inaction, and your entire government, you put millions of people and thousands of our companies in a liquidation situation. People don't have money anymore. He hears it every day. I don't know how many people are watching you on social media. I am followed by 400,000 citizens of the Czech Republic, on Facebook almost 300,000. Most of all politicians who are in the Czech Republic! You can also see that in public discussions only on Facebook he writes to me on average 3 to 5,000 people a day. So look what they think of your government. They're desperate, they don't have money people! They're desperate people! They don't even have the basic needs of life anymore! And you're going to say that I'm a comedian when I'm here defending the citizens of the Czech Republic on live air and fighting for them to have decent lives as winter approaches and at least the basic needs of life is assured? Your arrogance is incredible! And you can keep talking to me from the side, I'll quote what you're saying here, because it's live on Czech TV, so people can hear what you're saying, what you think about citizens! And how you despise this situation! And your arrogance. I'd be happy to interpret it exactly what you say. [[12.30 hours]] But let's keep going. The situation really is extremely serious. I have people crying at every meeting, they have tears in their eyes, as they are so miserable, because of your government, in such a lousy financial and social situation. Yesterday in Kladno, a family with two young children, a working family came to see me. And because they don't have the cost of living, now they've moved to a rented garage where they have stuff in their bags! Working people with two little kids! Now one of our members of the SPD has declared a collection on them, and we're helping the SPD, a collection, to put people together on a working decent family with two young children. And that's funny, Minister Síkela? It's absolutely unbelievable how your government behaves! Where did you get it in six months, where you drove working decent families with children! Not to mention seniors, disabled fellow citizens. He's crying at my meetings! If you look at my Facebook, we have a lot of meetings, a lot of people pushing in, a lot of people coming at us, our meetings. And those people there have their hands all worked out, working on industrial zones. You can feel it when I shake hands. They don't have money and they're in a desperate situation, and you're not helping them. And Mrs. Pekarová Adamová will say that the government is not here for people, and she will tell people to wear sweaters. That's crazy! Your government needs to leave as quickly as possible, because you will destroy the entire Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, you as a government were able to set the upper price limits last winter after energy distributors started to fail and people started to raise energy prices and backup on them to crazy heights. Thousands of households, pensioners, families with children, as well as many companies got into hell's troubles because of Petr Fiala's government. You can't blame this on Putin if you cut yourself. Now, almost a year later, you come up with half a long solution, and that's at the pressure of the opposition, otherwise it wouldn't have moved you. Unsolving may be a complicated neoplasm. But he's just as complicated and unpleasant as what you do, you don't solve, and you still have the nerve to brag about coming up with something. And you even have the audacity to attack us, who here we are fighting to make sure that citizens have really, real, ceilinged electricity prices and our companies too. So what did you come up with? With people and businessmen after years of covid restrictions, after a year of crazy price growth on all fronts, you're gonna put a 100% increase in electricity prices and a 300 percent increase in gas prices? And at the same time, you tell companies that you don't give a shit about them and that you don't put a price on them? You have a bunch of excuses why you can't put a real price down. What a word, a lie! The lie has become the main crutch of your government. Firstly, you lie when you say that it is not possible for Czech power plants to primarily supply energy to the Czech market, thereby reducing the price to pre-lonish levels without regulation. You're lying that the West would stop giving us gas for punishment. The gas doesn't basically give us Germany. Try not to lie to yourself for a few seconds. The Němec are taking him out of Russia. And Germany needs our nuclear and coal power because they shut down their nuclear and coal power plants themselves, but that's probably their problem, not ours. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this several times, and I don't understand what the government doesn't understand. Energy prices are the basis for the competitiveness of any country's economy. Everything we produce and produce, from potatoes to steel, is dependent on the price of gas, oil and electricity. If energy is expensive, everything will be expensive. That's what kids in kindergarten would understand. And if you, my lords, are refusing to understand this, literally the high-ranking members of the government, or for free, dears, then I believe it is not some idiocy, but a clear intention to harm the Czech economy. To damage our entire country, damage and rob all our citizens. You'll be talking about compensation. If Sobotka of the ČSSD and his crew were in charge here, I would understand such nonsense from their mouths, but the ODS is in control with the support of several parties to or below the eligibility limit. You promised people low taxes and a minimum of the state. And today? You steal from citizens and companies in the form of really catastrophic energy prices, on which you directly parasite, and then you comfort companies that you may sometimes give them some charity. The covidový crisis was a crisis that was largely caused by hysteria. This energy crisis is similar again. It's a crisis that the Fialův government caused by its incompetence and incompetence to a large extent. Yes, unlike the rest of the world, Western countries have a problem because they have imposed sanctions on Russia and Russia is paying them back today. So it is a truly trivial situation where Russia is making record profits from sanctions, and Central and Eastern Europe, citizens, are getting into a situation where they are powerless. However, the Czech Republic is in an exceptional position regardless of sanctions. We have a surplus of electricity. Without any major problems, we can largely replace the gas outage with electricity because we have an excess. Unlike the rest of the world, thanks to the power plants, we can produce it extremely cheaply from the socialism era, at a ten-haler per kilowatt. We can disconnect two gas plants without our market feeling it. So what's the problem? Yes, ideology. When we, or the Czech Republic, are servants and colonies of the West because of this government and we must supply our energy to Germany. In exchange, we can buy their surpluses and consequently dispose of Czech farmers and producers. You call it European solidarity, or EU solidarity, when we poorer subsidize and support wealth growth in Germany and other countries west of us. It's Germany's dream come true, not ours. And here I would like to say again that let us not put an equal between the word European and Union. This is what the European Union's advocates, it is such another lie to them, such a media lie that they say European solutions, but it is not a European solution, it is a Union solution. So, aside from the fact that many European countries are not a member of the European Union, the second thing is that in many countries of the European Union, those of the Western, almost half of the voters vote for Eurosceptic candidates. Let's see - there will be elections in Italy. Let's look at the result of the presidential election in France, when Marine Le Pen, a friend of mine and a colleague of our faction, won almost half the votes of the voters, the Francouz. So let us not give an equal between European and Union. That's not an equal. On the contrary, you are anti-European. And the European Union is against the interests of Europe. So it's exactly the opposite. The interest advocated by the SPD is the closest possible cooperation between free and sovereign European countries without the dictation of Brussels, and that is the difference. It is also necessary, in principle, to reject what Prime Minister Petr Fiala has been doing here all along, and so says the Minister of Industry, Mr Síkela, and other government officials, Vít Rakušan, STAN. That's the party where the organized crime is, it was written directly by the police, it wasn't invented by Okamura's saying, it's directly from the police file that was published, we've all seen it in the media. And you say that when someone disagrees with the European Union and does not agree with the war in Ukraine, you say that it is automatically pro-Russian and pro-putinian. Don't lie! That's not true. That's your lie and your lies about those associated with you journalists, not everyone's connected with you, they're decent journalists, but it's a huge lie. And people are already affected by the way you lie. Because when someone is a patriot and is critical of the European Union and does not support the war in Ukraine and does not support the conflict and wants peace and does not want war, you do not lie that such a person is automatically pro-Russian and pro-putinian. You lie about the SPD, you lie about our voters, you lie about the citizens, you lie about the hundred thousand protesters who were on Wenceslas Square who weren't there because they were victims of misinformation about how Prime Minister Fiala lied and insulted these people and their families. Those people were there because they were desperate and they didn't have the money to pay for energy and basic life needs. And I'm going to tell you one very important sentence that we stand for as an SPD. Providing the basic needs of our citizens must not be the subject of ideology and activism. And you turned it into ideology and activism. And because of your incompetence and incompetence, there is no alternative for this winter for the Czech Republic but to buy cheap gas at the producer, i.e. in Russia. But that doesn't mean anyone's pro-Russian. The Rakušan did it, the Austrian chancellor was still checking after the start of the conflict in Moscow to continue the supply of cheap gas for Austria. [[12.40 hours]] My friend, friend, Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó, who I have dealt with twice in person in the last two months both in Budapest and in Prague, has now brought more cheap gas supplies for Hungary from Russia for the winter. The Slovák have the direct contract, the Němec have it. But you took hostages because of your ideology, you took the citizens of the Czech Republic hostage, and you prefer to buy the same Russian gas through a German fence. And I think people have had enough. They've had enough! Because you, with your hundreds of thousands of salaries - I know, Minister, you're a very wealthy man, and the media did, too, so you're cut off from the real world, you've earned a lot of money in the bank, all right, I get it. But you just really miss the empathy. Miss Mrs. Pekarová Adamová, we all see that. So I just want to tell you that - and you're not lying - when someone wants cheap energy for citizens and is looking pragmatically for the cheapest possible solution possible, such as the surrounding democratic Germany, Austria, Hungary or Slovakia, that is pro-Russian and pro-putinist. Enough with the lie! And I'm calling on those journalists who lie about the SPD and others like that to stop this lie, it doesn't work on people anymore. Because I'm telling the SPD if we were in the government and we were part of the government, I'm going to set up that cheap gas, and I'm already talking to Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó about opening the door for us. And we are able to provide cheap gas for companies and citizens of the Czech Republic. We, SPD, Tomio Okamura. But you have to put down the government, hand over the resignation, and we have to replace you. But, of course, you're sticking there like ticks, and all the citizens are gonna pay for it. And now they're gonna see it, even after you've put a bullet in it, how expensive it's gonna be. That's the way it's gonna be, and you know it. One of the excuses and misguided lies of the Fialův Government is that the ceiling on energy prices for large companies does not allow us to adopt EU guidelines. I suppose you mean that it would be illegal support. So low electricity prices are illegal support, but if I get companies into crisis, then the subsequent compensation is holiday support? He wouldn't even invent Špidla. And I'm really not the only one wondering what record-breaking bottom this government has been able to fall for. Again, this also points to the European Union's harmfulness and the servility of Petr Fiala's government, which does not defend the interests of our citizens and companies, but the interests of Brussels and Berlin. But I'm going back to that direct gas contract. Yes, I was the only one who called here in the last parliamentary term, and I said that several times in my speech to the microphone, but Minister Síkela was not here when I called for energy security and food security of the Czech Republic. I called for a diversification of resources. I said, let's not be dependent on Russia. I've said it repeatedly. Let's not be dependent on one source. The government of Petr Fiala, the Fialův's five-calice government - some Members here laughed at it when they heard it, and they were also in opposition during the last parliamentary term, as we were, and Andrej Babiš acted as if he had not heard. I warned when the crisis came, addiction to one source would be a problem. None of the previous governments - and the SPD has never been in the government, so we are not responsible - so no one worked on the energy security of the Czech Republic. And now we are in a situation, and I want to stress that for this winter there is no other option for cheap gas than that direct contract, but that doesn't mean that someone is pro-Russian, that's pragmatism. That's right, and so are the surrounding countries. For example, Austria and Hungary, of course Germany, Slovakia, we have already discussed this. But I also add with one breath, let's work on that energy security, no matter what the nearest period, no matter how soon we are no longer dependent on that one resource, let's not depend on that Russian. That must be the target. Let's not be dependent on one resource, but for this winter, we all know - let someone tell me where to buy cheap gas for the Czech Republic, for our households and companies, now that you've messed up, neglected your incompetence, and now we have September, starting to cool down, people need to drown and businesses need to produce. So don't lie that Okamura here says we should buy cheap gas - for a) I say in Russia, for a) I say for this winter, and b) one breath in the long term I was the only one who says, let's not be dependent on Russia and on one source. Now I've been watching this desperate quote from my 2011 Art of Dominance book. Yes, I wrote, I pointed out that we should not be dependent on Russia, that dependence on one power is a problem, because the powers defend their interests, whether it be America, Russia, whether it be China, and it is not good to be dependent and help beyond peace, beyond the necessary degree to finance these powers, because they will always defend only their interests. So in that book, and I'm glad the SPD enemies posted it, too, I pointed out that we shouldn't be dependent on Russia, I said we should be diversifying, I pointed it out in 2011, I haven't even been in politics yet, so thank you to these people who are publishing it with the aim of others, but that's exactly what he's saying. And I can only ask - the book is proof of this and everyone sees black in white that I was never proputin or pro-Russian, but for me the Czech Republic was always first. Czech Republic, Czech citizens and Czech companies in the first place. [[Let's hear it for the SPD.]] It's black and white. So it would be good for the government to stop making excuses for their incompetence that they always lie and blame everything on someone. But we want a solution from you. Beautiful Czech proverb - not words, but deeds! And you're missing those actions, just words and, above all, personal attacks on the opposition. You have personal attacks on the opposition and especially personally attack hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic because Prime Minister Fiala personally attacked almost 100,000 protesters on Wenceslas Square. I don't know the organizers, I don't know who organized it, I'm talking about the citizens. You personally attacked them for being desperate, and you identified them as affected by people with some misinformation. What misinformation? I mean, every citizen gets those bills, and even those companies get them every month, they see what you've messed up and what you've done here. Well, today we have a real emergency because of you. A national crisis caused by the Fialův Government, German interests and Brussels bureaucracy. And again, the European Union's harmfulness is showing, and it also points to the servility of the government of Petr Fiala, which does not defend the interests of our citizens and companies, but the interests of Brussels and Berlin. The price moratorium on electricity and gas prices for all customers, i.e. the ceiling, is a perfectly legitimate step. Like I said, the SPD designed this place six months ago. And it is not only legitimate, it is one of the fundamental economic solutions capable of leading us out of the current crisis. That's not what I'm saying, that's what every judgment economist says. It's not just me, it's what every doomsday economist says, every businessman, every businessman, every person in this country with a hint of common sense. The solutions are clear and simple, and one of them is - the price ceilings, in the real amount, which Purple government impoverished households and companies are able to tighten, which is a maximum crown of 50 per kilowatt hour of electricity and a crown per kilowatt hour of gas, as suggested by the SPD. Of course, the gas ceiling at this level requires a direct contract, we all know that. But that's what you're defending for ideological reasons. I don't know why you don't want to do what the Rakušan do. I don't get it. Well, I get it because I know you. Because you don't give a damn about citizens and companies. At the same time, ČEZ must be nationalised, and I say this frankly, the state must have a 100% stake in the state enterprise CEZ. It is also necessary for the state to own gas reservoirs and energy infrastructure, of course, leading through our territory. In the case of ČEZ, the solution is quite simple, you just want to. All you have to do is call an extraordinary general meeting that will approve the sale of minority shares. Of course, this can also be done by an extraordinary law. This also applies to forced purchase of energy infrastructure. The State should own a strategic infrastructure in order to have a direct effect on prices. And the sensible states in the West have set it that way. Here, of course, the current governments - this does not concern the SPD, we were not in the government - have stolen Czech strategic infrastructure into foreign hands, but also into the hands of Czech entrepreneurs, Czech big businessmen. As if I had nothing against entrepreneurs, they took advantage of the opportunities given to them by the governments at the time, but the problem is that the state is, of course, having a hard time affecting those energy prices in the event of the crisis. Of course, legislation needs to be amended and adapted in such a way that we really, not just to the eye, support the energy self-sufficiency of households, municipalities and regions. The aid is now set up in such a way that it really goes into the profits of design and implementation firms. The island's photovoltaic and wind system can now build a complete layman and it is not so expensive. You can get household electricity for a few tens of thousands of crowns. Of course, municipalities can add, for a few tens of millions, for example, cogeneration incinerators to wood and other waste or biogas stations again to wood waste, hay, municipal waste and sewage waste. In Austria and Germany, there are small cities that are not only energy-sufficient, but even supply surpluses to the national network and improve their budget. Of course, I've been pointing this out for years, even in my books almost 20 years ago. And I warned against addiction to Russian sources. Not because I'm pro- or anti-Russian, but because every addiction, and it doesn't matter who, is always unhealthy and risky. And, of course, energy security and self-sufficiency are always advantageous and economically advantageous. Enough cheap energy would be the best competitive advantage for our businesses and businessmen. [[12.50 hours]] And, of course, it needs to be stressed that I have not mentioned inflation yet, high inflation. Let's be clear and straight, and you know that the main factor that's spinning the inflation spiral is expensive energy prices. So your government is responsible for inflation. You guys, by not dealing with it, you're still spinning the inflation. I'm not saying full responsibility, but I'm saying it could have been lower. Not that we have been a country that has had one of the highest inflations in Europe over the past month because of your inactivity, the inactivity of your government. So you are literally harming all the Czech citizens and companies' wallets only by your incompetence and inactivity and by simply - well, by being incompetent and inactive, the whole Republic already knows that, and therefore, according to the survey, almost 80 percent of your citizens don't trust your government anymore, the overwhelming majority of citizens have already noticed that, but if you at least listen to the advice, the advice of those who have the solution, but we reject it for ideological and political reasons and you have taken the whole Republic hostage. As you know, there are also increases in the number of new executions, but you don't care. By the way, we have introduced the SPD law here on nationalisation of executors and on the ceiling of the RPSN as they have, by the way, also in Slovakia, and even in most EU countries. It's a law against usury, because it's usury that's the first step towards people falling into those execution traps just because your government doesn't deal with expensive energy and expensive food, so, of course, people get into desperate situations. And you don't give a damn, you're rejecting our bills and rejecting them. We have also proposed an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, an increase in the discount on the child, an increase in the contribution to support working citizens and working families with children, we have also proposed an increase here, all the laws are already passed by the SPD, an increase in the contribution to care for disabled citizens, an increase in the contribution to mobility for disabled citizens. We have a whole bunch of laws here. We want, we said here, we suggested that pensions should increase to all the same amount, not a percentage, as you say. We filed a proposal for a minimum decent pension at minimum wage level for compliance with legal conditions, of course, that means either years worked or disability, so that the inadaptable would not receive anything. And from that amount of credit. You don't give a damn that there are pensioners who have pensions of 8, 10, 11,000 and are in a totally desperate situation. You guys don't give a shit about these people. Well, of course, I'll just remind you that in the spring, you rejected our bill from the SPD pen to end the abuse of unadaptable doses, which would bring nearly a billion crowns to the Treasury. So you support directly, you are directly against the people, against the Czech government, against the interests of our citizens. The solution is advantageous for us here, as we know, and that was also my speech. But instead, we see Petr Fiala's government doing the exact opposite, which is doing everything it can to completely ruin our country. I think the Minister of Economic Miss Kalousek might be proud of you. However, it is also necessary for people with at least some professional level to join the key ministers' and prime minister's seats. Unfortunately, such people did not get caught up in your incompetent government because they won political trades with the government's trades in the distribution of posts. And that, by the way, is why Mr Síkela, the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is a banker of origin and industry and has never dealt with trade. Not even the energy, so you don't know which one's beating. But the problem is, if you do it at your house, no one will mind, but unfortunately, this is a problem for all citizens. Here we can see clearly why a bill on the referendum and rebuttal of politicians is needed, and why you, from the Fialův's government five-calice democracy, are defending the teeth of nails. You are already so desperate that the SPD movement, which is the only one in favour of the referendum law here, so you call it undemocratic, with the exception of the referendum law, is in all the countries of the European Union, even in your beloved Ukraine, although they do not respect the results of referendums that are not appropriate to them in Ukraine. So you're already so far in the lies and slanders of the opposition and the SPD that the party that champions the summit of democracy means the referendum law, the party that has a political dissident in its ranks, the political prisoner of Jaroslav Bašta, who has been bravely and heroically locked up in prison for opinions for two and a half years and has been kicked out of college for the 68th time and has not bowed down and served any regime, Jaroslav Bašta, and then when he was released after two and a half years, and in those Borech sitting, in a prison in Borech, ten years before Václav Havel, then he went to sign Charter 77, so you don't know what else because you have nothing on the SPD, we don't even have organized crime, nor corruption, nor we have anyone charged, and no one in the MP's club is even like that, even among our members, so you don't even know what you't know about it anymore. So you call democracy a non-democrat, and you yourself who defend democracy to the teeth of your nails, and again I say that, with two exceptions, all the countries of the European Union have a law on a reference, so you are already slipping down to a very low level of argument. Given this democratic deficit, when Petr Fiala's government is also defending the referendum law here, I call on citizens to hold, as a referendum on this government, at least municipal and Senate elections that will be held in a week on Friday and Saturday. Dear citizens, all of you come to the election and do not vote for a representative of the government's five-wheeler, the best way to express our dissatisfaction with how this government is destroying the country. And here I'd say one more sentence or a few sentences. She did it government five-calice, ODS, STAN, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and TOP 09, she did it for these municipal elections. You have been hiding in a number of cities and municipalities under purposefully formed associations, for example, it is called, I will give examples, non-existent associations, such as Better Prague, Better Most, Pro Brno, Za better Ostrava. You made it because the municipal elections allow it, the law, you made a dedicated association so it wouldn't be named according to the sides of your government five-wheeler, because you know that your support is falling, and under these artificially created associations your members, members of the ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates were hiding. So I would like to call on the citizens and warn the citizens, please follow the candidates carefully and find out who is running for them, because these parties of the government's five-calice, which are so bad for the Czech Republic and they're not doing anything for you, so now they're on purpose because they're afraid, so they were hiding under these special-purpose parties, which they named differently, so you have to look really carefully at the ballot and see who's on those candidates, because they're often hidden there by the members of the TOP 09, STAN, Pirates, KDU-ČSL and ODS, because they're afraid to go to the polls. SPD candidates, there's always the name SPD, we don't have to hide, we go ahead, we succeed, or we fail. But you're hiding. So that's what it takes to put this straight, so the citizens know how the government coalition went about it. With you, it's a huge number of candidates for cities and municipalities, where you're hiding after some other names, it looks like it's somebody local who wants good. But you're not under the name of your party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. Mr Karel Havlíček, Vice-President, will now speak with priority. Excuse me, I've made some actual remarks. Minister Válek is not here, and Mr Exner is interested in a factual remark. [[is present]] Yes, so the Minister has been logged in before, so please, Minister, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u8	I'll be very brief. I'm sorry, it's not entirely happy from Moravák. Yes, it's from Moravia, so the Czech is not the best. However, I am 100% certain that the Minister of Agriculture is not called Nekula. Personal name consists of name and surname, his last name is Nekula, I'm 100% sure his name is Zdeněk. The overall personal name, that's how the Czech says it - it's nothing, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, it's not personal, but there are young people on top, so they don't get confused. We have a personal name according to the register, it kind of has the birth name, and the last name, that's the one that's born in the family, the last name of the Minister of Agriculture is Nekula, and the birth name is Zdeněk. He's baptized, so he still has the middle name, which also allows the registry. I'm sorry, from Moravák, that I repaired the Čech, but I felt it was my duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Exner. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u10	Madam President, honourable Members, I have no doubt that Mr Tomio Okamura would like to go to Russia very much, and I am glad that he himself has said so, and I hope that this will not fit in. I would, through Madam President, tell Mr Tomio Okamur a few facts. We had gas from Russia to the European Union 40 per cent before the war, from Russia to the European Union, now it is 9 per cent. CEZ Group supplies 95 percent of electricity to its clients and only 5 percent supply on the stock exchange. The exchange isn't a price-setter, it sets supply and demand, it's just a market. We don't have to deliver anything to Germany and we don't have to buy anything, we have a free market. The cause of the energy crisis is not the Fialův Government, but it is Russia's war in Ukraine, and it has been led by disinformation, energy, and economically against the whole of the European Union before. And Russia has attacked Ukraine, and that is what we should be based on. And if Mr. Tomio Okamura wanted a cheaper price, he wouldn't be here to delay these theatre scenes and let us finally discuss the law we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Excuse me, with Mr. Babka's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I was intrigued by the Minister's speech. It is true - and you, Madam Vice-President, used it - that it is important to use the first names in the address, as mentioned here, because when you say Minister Válek, it could mean that he is in charge of another resort. So right, Minister of Health, Mr. Vlastimil Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u13	Yes, thank you for reminding me, we'll fix everything. It is still with a factual remark by Minister Vlastimil Válek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u14	Thank you, Madam President. What's not can be. After all, there were ministers here who collected resorts like our Olympic medal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, Minister. The President made a factual statement. You're pulling back, okay. Therefore, Vice-President Karel Havlíček may now give priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u16	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, first of all, I would like to point out that, as an extremely important law, perhaps the most important which we are discussing here recently, which will touch every household and which may also touch companies, at least some, is virtually none of the governments. There is, of course, Minister Síkela as a translator, thank you very much for the fact that Minister Anna Hubáčková is here and that Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek is here, but the others obviously do not care. I also thank all the Members who are here, especially from the opposition, that the benches are full, and I thank the handful from the coalition who is ready to discuss this. I think it says a lot about things, and let's not be surprised that a five-calice or the government is called an elitist government. I understand that the government doesn't want to listen to criticism, I understand that there is a very difficult situation, but that doesn't mean that when it criticizes itself, the criticism isn't justified. Why do I think the criticism is justified? Firstly, I believe that the government has misjudged the energy situation in the past. We can talk about why that is. She focused a lot on the past, the criticism of the past, not focusing on what would happen, not focusing on the solution, and what I lack in particular is the competence that is replaced in a better case by politics, in a worse case of disdain. The government has focused entirely on budget mantra. Big mistake these past few months. Not because I don't understand that the budget is important. It is very important, but the government has misjudged the situation when it is no longer just about the budget of the Czech Republic, but it is about households, their poverty, it is about companies, and it has started to transfer the debt to other entities. That was sometime since June. Logically, this also results in an extremely late reaction, because then everything is sewn with a hot needle, one mistake after another is piled up, and the solutions and the designs look accordingly. If we're going to look for a sensible solution, we have to - and without that, we can't move - understand the starting point. Very often we catch it like a cat by the tail in the full finale. And we need to understand these bases both in the context of the Czech Republic and in the context of Europe, even in a kind of dynamic form, not only in terms of what was, but also what is likely to be. I can't start any other way if I'm going to find a common solution, even though I can imagine that the government and the five-calice will outvote us so that I don't describe these exits and I don't know how they're going to evolve. So let's start with the European Union, because we can't put it together without it. The fundamental problem and one of the reasons why we are in the situation that we are in is German energy policy and its energy failure. [[unintelligible]] But what's important is that it doesn't change. Yes, well heard, the decommissioning of nuclear power plants will continue, and most likely the last three will end this year, and coal decommissioning is a permanent process in Germany. This is one of the main reasons that there are few resources in the European Union, that Germany has focused a lot on gas and that today the prices are where they are. Of course, the serious reason is war, aggression in Ukraine, uncertainty arising from this in the markets and so on. But be careful, this doesn't end either. That means no one can tell how long the war will last today, and logically, the uncertainty will deepen. For another long-term green policy of the European Union. We can have a long discussion here about what everything has been underestimated, what ambitions they have been, to what extent they have been real or realistic, but in any case, a policy based on emission allowances has failed completely. But let's keep going. The reduction of gas extraction in Europe for ecological reasons, the refusal of shale gas extraction, the ban on fracturing. I don't want to go into details, but let's note that one of the first things the new British Prime Minister did was to cancel the ban on fracturing. Translated into Czech, abolished the ban on shale gas extraction. These are very important things which, of course, have an impact on the fact that Europe has become dependent on gas imports. Yes, Minister Síkela rightly said that one of the reasons is that they are also being abandoned - but this is a short-term process - even nuclear power plants in France, but this is really only for maintenance purposes and it will come on soon. What's the result? The consequence is that Europe is dependent on gas imports, and, unfortunately, Germany has been radically oriented, whether we call it pragmatism or any other reason, on gas imports from Russia. As a result, we have extreme price differences in individual world markets. It is difficult to explain to our companies and the citizens of the European Union that they currently have eight times cheaper gas in the United States. We can even speculate how much money is made on one liquefied gas ship that is being sent to Europe. And even somebody went to the trouble of counting it. So supposedly, the profits on one ship of that gas are equal to the value of that ship. But the gas is cheaper in Japan, which has always been extremely expensive, is cheaper in Australia, and I am not talking about Asia and other countries at all. These are the facts that we need to take for our decision-making, whether short-term or long-term. Let's go to the Czech Republic. The situation here is not bad because of past governments, and I deliberately say to past governments. Our government, the previous, previous - the past in our energy field is not bad at all, because fortunately we have here created a very reasonable energy mix based on a core, coal-based, albeit gradually dampening, partly already on renewable sources, and in the final we have a very balanced energy mix, which we are within our government to warm up my soup, strengthened because we have prepared a complete Dukovany. The new government was right to send the tender to the finals. Similarly, we proposed ending coal not in 2030, as we were convinced by environmental organisations, even by some members of the current coalition, in 2030. Luckily, we put him in for 2038. And even though this government did one of the first things, it proposed it for 2033, so it turns out that it came to its senses and it's gonna get longer. I even think it should still be over 2040, we're in an emergency situation. [[13.10 hours]] In principle, however, I must say that gas is not the greatest threat in our country, because, fortunately, the Czech Republic is not dependent on gas, at least with regard to electricity production, like some other countries such as Germany. It's even under 10% in our country, and if I said it completely hard and we didn't make electricity from gas, we'd survive it. Which is good news. In other words, we are self-sufficient when it comes to electricity generation even after we subtract gas. The negatives we have to come from, whether we like it or not, are also given. And they're given by the past. During the years 1996 to 2004, we privatized everything that moved energy. From refineries, gas transport, gas distribution, gas trading, reservoirs do not belong to us and unfortunately privatized ČEZ. This is a reality that leaves virtually no room for manoeuvre in the government in the finals so that it can fundamentally influence a number of things. I don't blame this government, either, and logically, even the previous government couldn't. Another thing that is a fact is given, we will not change anything about it, is the geographical location of the Czech Republic, and therefore a high dependence on Germany. I do not mean industrial now, it is also given clearly, but I mean energy, especially with regard to gas imports. At least in terms of where the gas comes from to the Czech Republic. He's coming from Germany with German pipes. And because Germany was working out its dependence on Russia, and by building Nord Stream 1, it completely overpowered, so logically strengthened the Czech Republic's dependence on Russian gas. Please nicely, not because our previous or previous government wanted this, but purely because the gas is mixed in German pipes and the gas from Nord Stream 1 or Jamal beat the Norwegian gas or any other. To put it simply, this will not be solved by a contract with Nora or anyone else, because if Nord Stream 1 works, we can pay whoever we want, but it will always be in the vast majority of Russia's gas. That's a fact we can't control. Another thing is if Nord Stream 1 didn't work. Well, let's not forget one thing that's pretty important, and that's that we fatally crashed our trust in renewables through the solar tunnel from 2006 to 2010. It will cost us 600 billion crowns and electricity production is below 3%. So let's not be surprised that I don't want to say almost all-social resistance, but a pretty substantial resistance to renewables, especially photovoltaics, which, of course, is not a good thing. But if the state, companies and families spend CZK 29 billion on photovoltaics each year, it is obvious that people do not take this completely, completely. These are the basic bases without which we will not put together any solutions. The solution, however, began to be prepared by the government. And why we're criticizing this and where we think there's been a mistake, I'll try to explain in the next few minutes. We all know that the problem started at the end of last year and escalated sometime in March of this year after aggression started. Since then, we have drawn attention as opposition to a number of problems, to rising prices and propose, and I am not saying that genius, but we are proposing a relatively large number of solutions. Of course, our proposals also evolve over time and as the situation curls up and gets worse, the solutions must gradually change. I wouldn't blame the government so much, the fact that the situation is changing and that it has to respond to the current situation. The problem is that the government underestimated virtually everything. Let's face it - nothing happened. There was talk, I'm not saying it wasn't. Promised. We've been waiting for signals. It explained what might happen. They were looking for reasons. She kept looking back. But in the finals, there was nothing that households and, of course, even companies could touch. Except that he started preparing an energy-saving tariff sometime in April. I have said many times here why I do not like the energy-saving tariff. Because he's pretty complicated in terms of distribution. He seems low to me, or he seemed low to me. And in the finals, the worst part is, he was too late. But I could rise above this, and I would say yes, it's some kind of tool that makes sense. But he made sense in the spring and maybe sometime in June, in July. But since then, it has been quite obvious that these prices are escalating in such a way that the energy-saving tariff will be behind its zenith by the time it is put to life. The government didn't take that into account. In July, we argued about it, everyone laughed at us. And the energy-saving tariff has become this government's flagship. As it turned out, we all know. At the end of August, the government categorically said that any ceiling was out of the question that it was a populist and extremist solution to come up with a ceiling 14 days later. She came up with it right. What am I declaring? That the government was absolutely not ready for this. 'Cause if she was ready, she'd already have some solutions in her drawer. He's got all kinds of scripts ready. But by rejecting this absolutely, and by confusingly starting to put together some scenarios and concepts from September 1 through various multinational companies, the government shows that everything was sewn with a hot needle. On top of all that, the government has been naively betting on a single European solution. I am not saying that there is nothing to be done in Europe, nor am I saying that it would not be ideal for us to have a solution within Europe. But the fact that it relied on a revolution, that perhaps even the price formation of electricity could be separated from the gas or that something fundamental would be done with emission allowances, with all due respect, was naivety. And the expectation that woke up, I don't think it had any real foundation. As it turned out, we all know. There's been a break. The break didn't happen the way the government's trying to push us around, in that all of a sudden prices jumped up. Yes, prices jumped to absolute extreme for a few dozen hours. But if you were communicating with the energy, you knew it would come back quickly. The prices, if we look at gas, for example, are July, August, September, even now may be lower than they were at the end of July. And as far as electricity is concerned, it has once again reached that level of August, even at the beginning of August. So it wasn't because prices were escalating. It was because of that, and let's be objective in this, that they stood on your back captains, that they stood on your back of different players from your five-calices, your whole five-calice, various factions, that they started criticizing the media very strongly and, of course, even the energyists who understood that there would be no way. So you pulled the handbrake and started changing. Thank God she's starting to change. That's a step right. But what model did you prepare? You've prepared a model such that it's gonna get caught. But instead of going to the ceiling of producers who today produce electricity in the Czech Republic for 500 crowns per megawatt hour, I round it up, on average, so you went to the prices of traders, or the prices that go towards customers. Instead of taking advantage of the extraordinary market situation, I say to the word and to the letter in the gas and electricity market, which allows you to transfer the weight to power generators, to withdraw their gigantic profits, which are higher in order than they used to be, so you succumbed to the pressure of large energy companies and in the finals it pays from the state budget and the difference with the trader for how much they buy, and on that ceiling. No one will understand. No one will understand that the Czech Republic, which can produce for CZK 500 per megawatt hour, is an exporter who has enough electricity, even a surplus, so it sells it in the Czech Republic at higher prices than the countries that buy it from us. The Spot Prize last Friday was EUR 360 in the Czech Republic, EUR 130 in Poland. Poland is an importer of electricity, we are an exporter of electricity. No one will understand that at all. The second thing is setting the ceiling. Nine thousand crowns per megawatt hour. You say 7 to 9,000 crowns. Okay, make me correct, maybe 7 to 9,000 crowns I take electricity all the time. There's only one thing I still want to repeat. We make for 500 kroner per megawatt hour. That's what the devil's all about. That's what we've been trying to communicate all along. You're telling us you saved homes from total apocalypse so they wouldn't pay 12, 13 grand for a megawatt hour. I agree with you on that. Yes, it is. But you saved them so that it wouldn't be the twelve, but it would be seven to nine thousand. Although you know very well how much they bought in 2020 and 2021. It's traceable. And you know what fixations are. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] [[13.20 hours]] And I understand Minister Síkel on one thing. In saying well, but if we go, Havlíček, even lower, it will cost hundreds of billions of crowns. Yes, Minister. If you go through the model you've chosen, that means you don't touch those margins and those profits from those manufacturers, if you go through those traders who are going to buy it dearly from those manufacturers, then of course, we all understand that, every other ditch down or a thousand per megawatt hour will cost tens of billions of crowns. That's right. But again, we were supposed to go the other way. The third thing I miss in a fundamental way is motivation. I don't understand why you didn't put the motivational element there, I don't want to say the Austrian way, but it doesn't seem bad at all, it means setting a certain limit, like 80 percent, to which better prices will be paid, and over 80 percent would be paid, for example, the current market prices. Among other things, it is a request from the European Union. And I actually have this feeling, but I'm not sure that this amount is there, the 20 percent, but I'm not quite sure, I'm just saying that out of the water right now. So it's also another thing that only illustrates that you did everything under pressure, in haste, unprepared, and quickly combined even with those involved, these are energy companies, manufacturing, this whole program. So why do we say 1,500 crowns? You mock us, but there's nothing funny about it. Because we say, 1,500 crowns, let's still talk about electricity, we say, so it's there - we can only influence it - we don't really affect it - 1,500 we say as output price from electricity producers. And what are we leaning on? That, in an exceptional market situation in the gas and electricity markets, we can pass this on to those producers - but beware, it is provided that we take into account their cost and reasonable profit. And what I'm asking is, if they make for 500 and we want them to have 1,500, not 8,9,000 at the output price, is that triple a reasonable profit? I am of the opinion that this is appropriate, not to mention that they were moving on this amount two years ago and CEZ made CZK 20 billion a year without any problems, this year it will earn CZK 80, 90, maybe 100 billion. And that's what we want to change. Otherwise, we are in a situation that CEZ will make this huge money and then it will be difficult to withdraw from the dividend and very complicatedly redistribute. So if we were at that amount of CZK 1,500 as the output price, it's clear that it's not 1,500 for the customer, because to do that we have to bring VAT... [[Mrs Schiller speaks off the microphone.]] Madam Speaker tells me to go slower. I'm sorry if I'm going too fast, I'm so full of it, I have to bet, so don't be mad. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] And I'm not just full of it, I'm just really pissed off. And really, it's not about politics right now. I'm pissed because it's completely unnecessary for consumers, it affects companies. I just spent a week going to foundries, to industry, and it's, it's a disaster. Never mind, but back. So if we were to put a price on the 1,500 crowns on that output, of course, that's more in the final because we have to calculate VAT, we have to count distribution, transport and so on, and in the finals it might be somewhere around the 3,000, but that's still a bearable price for the electricity, while today the government's ceilinging it to 7 to 9,000. So that would be almost a third of what the government's putting down today without putting this huge money in the state budget. Let me be objective, he'd have to put some in it anyway. Why? First of all, we missed the time, and if we had been doing this since March, we would not have let the fact that electricity was sold for the whole of next year, the part was sold at the beginning of this year, even at the end of the last year, be objective, but the fact is that it continued to sell happily, so ČEZ has sold for 100 euros plus minus 70 percent for next year. That's what we missed, which means it's gonna go on and on and on and it's clear that if the traders have bought it, even virtually, then they have to pay for it. Well, that's what the state would pay for, but unfortunately, that's our fault. And the second thing that's connected to it is allowances. Yes, I said here 500 crowns cost us megawatt electricity production, with the only exception, and these are so-called dirty sources. I can't do it with the coal. There's more, of course. Yes, in this case, the state would have to compensate the coal producers for the emission allowances. I guarantee you that if we were to figure out how much they have to give them, and maybe it would be some kind of discussion that they wouldn't have to compensate for everything with what's going to be there today, and believe it won't be the 130 billion that it's going to be more, so the state is better off in the finals. So these are households. If we look at the companies, even if it doesn't directly affect this law, let's talk about it for a while. First, the news is good. It's a good thing the businessmen and small medium companies were involved. Here I have to say, it's impossible to blame this government, and here the effort was, I think, perfectly fine, and thank you for that. Anyway, the whole corporate support thing is like a copycat with the household support thing. We've been alerting this since March. Since March, Minister, you promise. Since March, you've been saying you're preparing a temporary framework. I even know you had it ready. I also know that you were fired at the Treasury Department, but you should have fought. You're not the Deputy Minister of Finance, you're also the one who's supposed to fight for companies, businessmen and entrepreneurs. And at the end of August, you said with your calm head that by the end of the year there would be no direct support for businessmen. To be precise here, there has not been one so far, except for guarantees that did not turn out famously, we know that it was a fiasco, including because there are extremely high interest rates, but that is not the government's fault, and therefore, that you have finally put our recommendations on, and that is the forgiveness of payments for renewable resources, which will therefore be slightly affected by households. Unfortunately, it's already very late, so with regard to the energy prices, the impacts will be very low for the companies as well. So nothing major has been done except for these little things I've been saying. Relax, you said there'd be nothing for the rest of the year, and then the thunderstorm came. First of all, they stood up to the rear unions, associations, chambers, we obviously didn't let it go, the media went against you, the captains and so on. Of course, the prices went up, which you saw, too, so you pulled the handbrake, like those of the households, and you started to deal quickly. So you started putting together in a hurry, or you revived me to be more precise, because you had something prepared, what is called a temporary framework, but we all know that the temporary framework is not going to solve those companies. It's better than nothing, but if we're talking about 8,000 subjects and the fact that those subjects won't have better energy prices, they'll still have high ones, and those who buy on the spot, so they'll go hang themselves, so what they'll have, it's true, in a certain form, not completely simple, a certain form of covering their costs. Again, thank God for this, it's better. But the problem is somewhere else. The problem is that you have not dealt with our Presidency at European level for several months, and you have not even solved our Presidency to try to set up a stakeout for companies as well. [[not used]] I know you're gonna tell me it's not easy. I agree with that, governance is not an easy thing to do, but no one forced you to do it, to do it. We had to fight the problems of the covid at the time of government. With all the respect you have to deal with today, and you really don't have it easy, I don't envy you at all, so what we had to do was worse. That was totally unpredictable, we didn't know what would close, it wouldn't close, how Europe would behave. And it has not been a week for us to negotiate with the European Commission any exception that we needed to make. And they all told us, they can't, they can't do it, they can't do it. Eventually, the vast majority of things managed to reach an agreement. I can't blame you for that. The problem is, you've let it sleep since March, and now we're gonna catch it again, and we're gonna need a few weeks, if not months. So, once again, a waste of time. You could have at least made the gesture that you could have given the temporary framework of this support a few months ago, that is, not just to pay back what is now and beyond, but to throw it, for example, since April or May and so on, for example, since the Confederation of Industry tried to reason with you in vain. So it's for the businesses. Of course, I realize that everything I say has its risks. I'm not crazy, and I know that everything you say you can say you can, you can always say you can't, that's why you can't, that's why you can't, that's why you can't. But again, that's why you're the government, that's why you have huge apparatuses, that's why you have a responsibility to deal with this. It's about the political courage I miss with you! You guys, instead of going in there to do it responsibly so you don't worry, sometimes I feel like you're scared of your own shadow! It's about... [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] It's about the fact that you have to deal with ČEZ. Yes. And you can say - and why didn't you? Because there was no war. Because it wasn't such a critical situation. Even so, ČEZ and I tried to look for different models of distribution of ČEZ and so on. I know it's under the Treasury, but I take it as government responsibility. I didn't see any major shifts in ČEZ's resolution, minority shareholders and so on. It must be done in advance! That's what I said here, not leaving it at the last minute! We must make better use of the Presidency. But not on the basis that we have some ambition and a dream that the European Commission or other actors in the European Union will then throw us off the table. Let's wake up. Let's be realistic! The Czech Republic will not decide what is happening in the European Union. The Czech Republic, if it puts together a solid set of countries, such as V-4 - and here you can see that it is a great shame that it does not work. And please don't tell me - especially the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who isn't here at all, I haven't seen him for a long time, and why, yes, when we're dealing with this important thing? Don't tell me what a great bunch you have with them. Just because you have coffee with them, that you eat dessert with them, doesn't mean Vé 4 is working with them. The four of you are working together if you're pulling together and promoting these things together. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] [[13.30 hours]] So the solution to this European Union is that we have to use our Presidency skillfully, put together a set of states that are able to pull together, and make a clever effort to lobby what we need. That it's difficult, I know. But we have never had as much advantage in the last few years as we do in the Presidency today. For the next one. It means don't go under lobbying. So we can understand each other. Of course, I've already heard from the producers and so on the electricity and they say, slow down a little bit, we know we have to contribute too, but you're overreacting a little bit, we also need the profits. Okay, I know you do, gentlemen, I love you all, but not ten times as tall as the ones that are. But to tell you the truth - and now I'm talking to you electric generators, we all know each other very well, and I'm not saying it at all in a bad way, I don't hold it against you, you lobby quite correctly and logically. If I were you and I was the manager of the plant, well, I lobby the same way because I want to keep my profits, there's nothing special about that. The mistake isn't who lobbies, it's who gets naughty. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] And it wasn't pleasant for me to see when you suddenly started changing your policies at the end of August, although, again, you said for a while before that we were populists and extremists, and that in no way according to our opinions that you started applying them, one of the first things you did was that you started dealing with those who were immediately involved. That you've commissioned studies for multinational companies, so be it. I think you should have had them by now. Why didn't you use the MIT system where you have over 100 people in the power plant? Why did you not take advantage of the great workers in ČEPS, who, among other things, gave us very good scenarios of coal and energy decline in the entire coal commission? Among other things, if you'd followed these scenarios, if you'd called a coal commission for once, you might have figured it out. Well, you've dealt with those who will be directly involved. And these are experienced routines, experienced managers who will see to it that the measure that you eventually developed will be as much about them as they will need. So this is the result of your 14-day work now. And one more thing. Even though you told me, Minister, not to advise you - but I don't advise you, I'm just stating it as an opposition MP and you need to get used to saying it, even if you might not like it. Please give less to PR agencies and ideological advisors and do not look for obstacles where they are not. Because energy is about technology, and in the finals, it's about some pragmatic solution. Although I understand that ideology is easily hacking into it. A typical example of what you are trying to push the nation through is that if we act unpredictablely in electricity - to say the right thing, if we don't sell the electricity we make for 500 crowns, we don't sell for 9, 10, 11, 12,000, so that Europe will run with us and that it will return to us in gas supplies or in oil supplies. Good morning. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Oil. Please, what are we talking about oil? Who owns oil here? Didn't we notice that our refineries were privatized between 1996 and 2004? Complete. We don't own anything here! Kralupy and Litvínov belong to Polish PKN. That's reality. Who buys oil? The Czech State? Czech companies? No. Oil buys PKN. And he buys it for his races in the Czech Republic, for his races in Poland and for the third one, he is somewhere in the Baltic countries, Lithuania or Latvia. That's where they buy oil. And you really think that Europe is going to give us back electricity for something other than that crazy price by not getting PKN oil? We can't be serious! PKN will get the oil without a problem. And do you know where he keeps it? Do you know where he's getting it? He's taking her from Russia. And do you know why he's taking her from Russia? Unless, of course, technologically, he can. Well, because the Rus are giving it to him very cheaply today. Targeted. The Rus, of course, is pushing it under the price because he needs to get rid of oil and because he knows there's going to be some sanctions, and the Polák's doing it cheerfully, I mean, PKN is buying oil here. And do you know what the difference in the refinery margin is year-on-year? Ten times the size! So the Polák, PKN, makes ten times as much money in oil because he's taking oil from Russia. That's the solidarity that's in here! [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] So we're not really deciding whether to get here or not to get oil. All we decide is how much oil is going to be in the tanks. If I wanted to poke, Minister, I'll tell you you've had 84 days there, although there were 94 days for us. But I don't blame you, and I don't poke like you poke me, because for us, the oil was between 85 and 84 and 94 days. I just want to tell you that when we handed it over to you, you're so precise, pinktlich for what was what, when it was being handed over, it was 94 days, and today it's 84, but I know the reason it's because of the Material Reserve Administration. But I can inject myself in you when you said we were stoned sometimes. [[Applause for Members YES]] And as far as gas is concerned, it's not a hit parade in terms of us as the Czech Republic deciding who we're going to take the gas from. Didn't we notice that we don't own anything in this gas? It doesn't belong to us. It doesn't belong to the guy who fixes the pipes. There's nothing in the gas! [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Distribution privatized, trade privatized, preparation privatized, the magazine doesn't belong to us - and we're gonna think we're gonna decide who's gonna deliver the gas? You must be talking to the Rakušan, the Maďar, or the Němec. Yes, they decide. And on the other hand, there are commercial companies that definitely, Minister, do not support Czech energy, let us forget it, they support their business. And a very good business. Because look how much they're selling us that gas. I don't blame you, that's reality. You don't have that effect. It's not your fault, because it's really a relationship between commercial companies. But let's not worry about them giving us gas. Because in the finals, believe me, there will be no shortage of gas. And that's good news. Europe began to work very hard, stacks were added, terminals were conquered. And that Russian gas addiction isn't what it was six months ago or a year ago. And most likely, we will not have a shortage of gas from that Europe. Plus, it's going to be a little bit more saving. But what is threatening in a absolutely fundamental way here is the price, which will rise up, for the reasons that I have said here and which I have tried to introduce in some way, to analyse and that we all know very well about. And we believe that at this price that gigantic profits are earned, they're not gonna give it to us because we hit a little price on electricity? No way, it's naivety, this can't even happen... I don't even... Not even technically. I'm not gonna talk anymore, I'm a little on edge because I'm full of it. And I'm just gonna say one thing. We have prepared three amendments. And those amendments, if we do not accept it, I really will not fully understand it. One is about savings. Whether you do or not to apply them in the end, in the parliamentary proposal that I will put there and then load it, the point is that we are giving you the space to set a limit as long as the price is lower and where it is higher, so that we can motivate you to save it. If you apply it, great, if you don't, then no. So that's why I think it's a conflict-free amendment, basically supplementing what you've forgotten. The second thing we have put in there is an amendment concerning the transfer of the costs to producers. And it is nothing more than that we are taking advantage of the extraordinary market situation in the gas and energy markets and ordering producers to make such a price or price. It's up to you what you order. And again, you can go with that crazy model of yours that pays the state budget, pays the households and businesses, or you can choose the model where you go to those margins and those manufacturers' prices, and it's up to you how much you set. Our opinion was CZK 1,500. And once again, at 500 production costs, this is a sufficient margin, and we meet that by taking into account cost and reasonable profit. And the third thing that we're putting there, that's obviously political, you can and you don't have to put it there, but it's that you've made a blank check and you're de facto giving yourself the prices you want to put down, that's three crowns or six crowns, only in government regulations. In other words, you're getting a blank check to do whatever you want, but you're already suggesting that the end price is actually going to be the six crowns for electricity and three crowns for gas. So we are giving it the opportunity to put a ceiling on it at this time, up to 3 crowns and 1.50 crowns respectively. And when you say that the 3 crowns seem too small to you and that it would have to be paid, we say that for b. You said 6, we say 3, cancel the energy-saving tariff, cancel at this point the forgiveness of renewable resources, which is already behind the zenith, even though we recommended it, cancel all the other support you are planning, and put it on the lower ceiling, and at that point you will save. Just take on the tariff how much you save, in my opinion maybe 30 billion crowns, and maybe even more. And put it in the price. It'll be clearer, clear for everyone. I mean, please, at this point in time, a normal mortal who's watching us can't confess. We're in it, but imagine what we're talking about here. Once we say kilowatt hours marketing, then we say megawatt hours, once we give it in euros, once we give it in crowns, once we give it from the perspective of the so-called base load, then we give it according to another unit, then even by cubic meters. A normal mortal no longer knows what we're talking about. No one can know about that. [[13.40 hours]] Let's simplify the support. Let's just set it up over the ceiling when you've decided to do it, and we'll thank you for that, but let's cut it even lower, because in the finals, the low-income and medium-income families won't pay for it, and the companies will appreciate it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. Before I give the floor to President Radim Fial, I will read the apologies. Mr Petr Liška apologizes from 13 a.m. to 23.45 a.m. to 23 a.m. and from 23.45 a.m. to apologize to Mrs Michaela Opltová from 13.30 a.m. for working reasons. And now, with priority rights, President Radim Fiala will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the government amendment to the Energy Act allowing electricity and gas prices to be ceilinged is only a general legislative framework. After all, the five-wheelers say it is a flexible matter that they will be able to respond at any time to the price of energy. For us, however, it is a blank check, which we cannot fully accept, because the announced price of electricity is 6 crowns per kilowatt of power electricity, which means that for the final consumer it will be 7 to 9 crowns, and that is, as we also heard in the last speech by Mr Havlíček, too much. That is why we will try to reduce the price of five coalitions and propose changes in our amendments, which will reduce the 6 crowns for power electricity from 1.50 crowns to 4 crowns, because, as you know, the electricity will be produced for 500 crowns per megawatt, and the government is trying to sell it to citizens for 7,000 to 9,000 crowns per megawatt. And that is an unimaginable matter for us. It's a 15-fold increase in price. And the one who's ever done business can imagine how much it takes, if anybody's ever made a profit of 1,500 percent on anything? I don't think so. That is simply not possible and, of course, we must defend ourselves against that. I am convinced that leaving the government a blank check is an entirely insufficient tool for us today. It is necessary to act immediately and specifically. The government has already announced in advance that it wants to set this price ceiling at a level of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour of power electricity including VAT and for gas at CZK 3 per kilowatt hour including VAT. So it's not exactly accurate here, and since we've gotten used to the small inaccuracies in the government, I've been drawing on what came out in the media, so it's going to be six crowns and five hundredths of energy, and it's going to be three crowns and 25 thousandths of nickels for gas, so it's going to be a little bit more. But it is important to talk about the total electricity and gas prices and the amount that the customer will pay in the finals, because that is all we are logically interested in. And that's where we're at, like, different numbers. The total price of electricity and the government's announced ceiling will thus be at least CZK 9 per kilowatt hour, at the level of gas at CZK 4 per kilowatt hour. And that's really bad, and for many customers to vanquish, and for many seniors, for example, who are left alone and have family houses, it's just inexpensive for them, especially for those who heat their family houses with electricity or gas. For example, in the case of gas, the total price of one kilowatt hour of this medium was slightly above 1 crown, and now it will be 4 crowns, i.e. 400% increase, i.e. more than triple growth. And so the household, which paid about CZK 30,000 a year during normal gas consumption in the family house, will now pay a lot more than 100,000. That's the fantastic government ceiling in practice that touches all of us. And one more comparison of numbers: 1 kilowatt hour of power electricity from the core is produced in the Czech Republic in about 30 cents. Some sources show 40 cents. All right, all right. And the government's price ceiling for electricity is CZK 6 per kilowatt hour, as I mentioned earlier, fifteen times. Is this for real? The famous ceilings therefore mean essentially an increase in the total electricity price by more than 100 per cent compared to last year and, as already indicated, by more than 200 per cent. And I will just add a familiar thing, even though some politicians deny that Slovakia has had the price of electricity converted into CZK 1.50 a day for several months. [[In front of the speaker Adamec: No, he doesn't!]] Although the chairman of the Economic Committee said that they do not have, that they only have a signed memorandum and that they are looking for a new variant. But we also read it in the media, and we know that at least they talked about it, that they had a ceiling kilowatt hour for 1.50 crowns. But that's Slovakia. Okay, we have other countries here. For example, Austria has a conversion rate of 2.50 per kilowatt hour, and France has even been converted into one crown and ten cents per kilowatt hour. You can hear well, 1.10 crowns of France per kilowatt hour of power electricity. The government of Petr Fiala, therefore, comes not only as the last one in Europe, but is probably the highest price ceiling in Europe at the same time. We are the largest exporters, the largest electricity exporters in Europe, but at the same time, and this is a paradox, we have the highest price of electricity that we pay. And as has already been said, even those who take it from us who import it from the Czech Republic pay much lower prices than we people of the Czech Republic. In our opinion, the government's proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act and the planned introduction of the price ceiling for electricity and gas are completely inadequate and also unfair, mainly because price ceiling should not concern larger companies and industrial enterprises, which are, of course, strongly threatened by high energy prices in terms of their competitiveness and often from the perspective of their very further existence, which means the risk of a deep recession in the economy, industry, agriculture, food industry and also may mean mass redundancies and losses of up to dozens of jobs with all the resulting negative consequences. We're in favour of these businesses knowing what's waiting for them in the future to plan so they can figure out how much they're going to pay for energy. And I think that in this situation, it should be done in the same way as for natural persons, as for citizens - by ceiling. I have heard the Minister's discussion on television, when the Minister says that it is not possible that the European Union rules do not allow it to do so, as well as to companies. I get it. But so you say that we have a Presidency in which we can influence everything in the European Union, so ask for an exception, or we simply have to do it differently. But I think the criteria you set for big companies are discriminatory. Who knows what's going to happen in these companies right now to the bookkeeping to reach the 50 percent drop in the EBITDA. What's going to happen? Those companies will want to survive, and they'll do everything they can to get the energy subsidy money, of course. [[13.50 hours]] Speaking of the European Union - do you notice, and now I think about everyone, do you notice the citizens of the Czech Republic, do you also notice companies in the Czech Republic? We're already de facto addicted. Either we take welfare benefits for housing, for energy, for children, now we all have some kind of social benefit, and the companies are taking all the subsidies. Now for energy, various other subsidy programs. So in your declared democratic freedom, we have all become dependent at least on the European Union! We have so regulated our lives that we just keep going to ask, and I fear that the consequences of European Union policy will make it worse and worse. The government of Petr Fiala, therefore, comes not only as the last one in Europe, but at the same time its price ceiling is the highest. The government's proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act and the planned introduction of the price cap on electricity and gas are completely inadequate and also unfair. Mainly because the price ceiling should not concern larger companies and industrial enterprises, which are the ones who suffer most from these energies. I would like to quote from an article from the iDNES server of 14 September regarding the press conference after the government's meeting: Big companies, which are not affected by the ceiling on prices of power electricity and gas, will be able to draw from November 30 billion due to high energy prices, said Prime Minister Petr Fiala after the government's meeting. We will provide assistance to businesses on the basis of a temporary crisis framework, said after the Government's meeting to the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. It is not about ceilinging prices for large companies, but about support for sectors that have increased energy intensity. This is intended to help companies in the agricultural, forestry, fisheries, mining and quarrying sectors that are demonstrated by a gas supply contract with an annual consumption of more than 630 megawatt hours or, in the case of electricity, are connected to high or very high voltages, are in operational loss and at least 50 per cent of this loss is due to an increase in the costs of natural gas and electricity. " End quote. That's exactly what I'm talking about. This is a very risky plan. Firstly, it is clearly discriminatory. Why do they get compensation and others don't? This may result in some companies simply making arrangements for the cooperation of energy companies to reach those criteria. Thirdly, they will certainly optimize everything that can be optimized to meet the criteria and achieve those things. You will certainly not tell us, Minister, that we will establish another apparatus to administer these things, then another apparatus to control them, and another apparatus to pay them off. That would probably cost us a lot. These vaguely presented government intentions to help large companies with high energy prices are therefore absolutely unspecific to me and should apply only to a very small part of selected companies. In addition, the criteria for assistance are highly questionable, manipulatable, exploitable and require further complex administration and control. Basically, it will only mean a further redistribution of funds from a deeply deficit state budget and a further increase in state debt. Ceiling electricity and gas prices for large companies would clearly be a much cleaner, faster and less expensive solution, and many European countries have also long reached it. According to a statement by the Minister of Trade, Jozef Síkela, the setting of price ceilings for industrial enterprises does not allow European legislation. In this example, it is therefore very good to see how, in particular, membership of the European Union is really bad for us and how small the importance of the Czech Presidency, which the government is constantly boasting about. Even this matter has not been resolved by our negotiators, and our government has not been able to resolve the so-called European solution. In a time of serious energy, economic and ever-increasing social crisis, the interest of Czech citizens and Czech companies must take absolute precedence over European legislation. In my opinion, there's nothing to argue about. The Czech Government is obliged to take care of the survival of the Czech industry and economy and the decent standard of living of Czech citizens, whatever Mrs Pekarová Adamová thinks about it. That European legislation does not supposedly allow this? So what? Who cares now? At a time when we are fighting to preserve social reconciliation and to save our businesses and jobs. Former member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank in the commentary on the News List states: He who can only count a little bit knows that the price of six crowns per kilowatt hour of power electricity would be completely liquidation for most Czech industry and employment. The system is still imposing an energy tax on all economic operators in favour of electricity producers. The Czech Republic is a net electricity exporter, which means that electricity exports more in the long term than it imports. We are able to cover the domestic demand of electricity without the use of gas. According to the Annual Report of the Energy Regulatory Authority of 2021 on the state of the system last year, the net production from gas and gas power plants together was about 8 terawatt hours. Net exports were higher - about 11 terawatt hours. As a result, the average brown coal power plant is typically the one who determines the price for the domestic market, and it has not been so expensive. Of course, allowances are more expensive, but it's still an additional amount of around one crown per kilowatt hour. If electricity supply prices in the past were around one koruna per kilowatt hour of power electricity and producers were making reasonable profits, then even taking into account the level of inflation and the higher allowance price is a ceiling of six times nonsensical and unfoundedly high. Yes, that's the exact description of the condition. A description that we have been presenting here in the SPD for several months. And Professor Lízal adds: A fair and reasonable price for our economy and with a high price of allowances should therefore be below three crowns per kilowatt hour of power electricity. Even with this price, electricity producers, in addition to our useless gas plants, will achieve huge profits. And there is also a question: If any producer, which is now the case with electricity producers, has above-standard profits, why should the State grant its product by comparing the difference between the price of export gas electricity that we do not need for the domestic market at all? The head isn't picking up. Above all, industrial enterprises have not been able to withstand such high prices in the long run, not to mention an ever deeper hole in the state budget. And please show me a businessman or a business that can afford to pay six times for power electricity in the long run. That's the minimum. So these prices will certainly lead a number of entrepreneurs into insolvency. Very sad, but very true! And we in the SPD say the same thing in a consistent and long-term manner. The price ceiling, as the government puts it to us in the present amendment, is essentially addressed by the State, namely citizens and private companies, including those who will not have their prices, making electricity equal to the traders and the difference between the price ceiling and the purchase price of the commodity, such as the one set on the Leipzig commodity exchange at an astronomical speculative level. Citizen, pay up and don't ask why! [[14.00 hours]] The inability of our governmental authorities to protect Czech businesses and consumers from the dictation of cross-border electricity prices is incredible and incomprehensible. The systemic causes of the problem are not addressed, instead they only accumulate better or worse-set compensation of unprecedentedly deficit public budgets. The disruption of public finances continues at a crazy pace. And then I'm not sure I can stop it. Yes, it would be possible if we took that crucial step that we have long called for in the SPD: ignoring the Eurounion, mainly German, climate fundamentalism, and quickly abandon all binding projects and systems that are its fruitage of Green Deal. Trade in emission allowances, slave long-term contracts with the Leipzig Stock Exchange. Then we could do it. Will anyone on the Czech political scene find the courage to do so? The SPD movement certainly has it, so I'd like to ask if anyone else is here? I would also like to point out that during the last proposal to address the energy crisis, heating in boiler rooms during district heating and water heating has been completely forgotten. Then it was said that it would be settled later. So it's about heating and heat plants, where gas is mostly used, and it can affect up to 4 million people living in panels. How is the government supposed to treat this this time that the heat plants and the boiler rooms won't fall out of the ceiling compensation system again? Please ask for specific answers. Let me remind you that this heating is usually based on the flat area and only a small part of the price reflects actual consumption. So you can not drown at all, but the heating price will only decrease by 10 to 15 percent. That's the reality. This is a huge group of people involved. It is necessary to assure this group of Czech citizens that the government did not forget it in its solution as last time, at least I hope so. The author of the article at Echo24 went into interesting considerations regarding alternatives to the government's leading solution, whether it would be possible to do so without compensation from the state budget. And it is said that yes, if the State sets a ceiling on the price at which producers can sell to traders. I quote: this would be determined as their cost plus an appropriate margin for both producers and traders. They would all profit and have no losses on production and trade, but on the contrary, profits. Therefore, they would have no right to compensation. The impact on the state budget would be zero. The price for customers would be reduced at the expense of the margins of producers and traders. This is the principle proposed by Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek. But the government chose another one. And why doesn't the government give the ceiling to manufacturers? There's no clear answer to that. The fact that producers claim that they have a large part of the electricity sold in advance also plays an important role in the debate. Unfortunately, the state does not have clear data on how much electricity and at what prices it is already sold. It doesn't even have the exact dates of how many people and companies have fixed contracts and at what prices. Therefore, the State must rely on the data from the manufacturer of the trader and is in a very weak negotiating position. The information is missing from the Ministry of Industry and the Energy Regulatory Authority, which has the competence to do so. So far, the government also argues that it does not want to put a ceiling on the manufacturer because it prefers to withdraw the tax money from unexpected profits, the so-called windfall tax. But she still hasn't introduced her. We believe that this is a bad solution. The government only deals with the consequences of the energy crisis, not the cause. The government scratches with its right hand behind its left ear. Because if she set the ceiling for energy producers, their cost of production plus some margin, she could easily fit into 1.50 per kilowatt of power electricity. But the government doesn't want to do that. We've been saying that since spring. It's called a social tariff. Social doesn't mean it's just for people in a socially difficult situation. Social because it's a different tariff than on the stock market. Social because we are in a difficult situation and that in this situation the government can provide this tariff. This means that it will not sell energy through the Leipzig Stock Exchange, it will sell it directly to Czech companies, to Czech citizens with some profit. As we've already said here, if it's $1.50 per kilowatt, that profit is going to be 300 percent. Isn't that enough? And we'll all be happy. So I'm wondering if the government will do that. Because in the amendment to the Energy Act that we have on our desk today, the government has already written it, and that's where the government can do it. That the government can use the so-called social tariff and sell it directly to people and companies. And I hope at a much lower price than CZK 6 without compensation from the state budget. Because this path that the government has chosen means using those compensations on which it has 130 billion and which I don't think will be enough, and maybe it'll be 130, maybe 150, maybe 200 billion a year, so figure out what happens in two or three years. In two or three years, the economic and social system of this country will crash, and I am not quite sure if it will, for example, pay off all pensions. So I believe that the solution to the energy crisis will need a different solution, Minister, than we have on our table today. That it would simply need a different solution without impact, without such a huge impact on the state budget. It's going to have some impact, but if it's 130 billion or more, it's going to be very difficult to solve in a few years. On the contrary, it is more favourable for the State to have a ceiling directly for producers. Money doesn't have to be collected and redistributed at all. That's what I'm saying right now. Another argument why the government is so far afraid of the ceiling on producers is that they would rather export electricity at higher prices than sell it in the Czech Republic. However, this can be prevented by the legal obligations of the preferential sale of a certain part of the production in the territory of the Czech Republic. And that's what the law is, and I appreciate that, and I just hope you make use of it as soon as possible. The government's proposal also contains a paragraph that allows the government to order producers to do so. The second concern is that, at crop prices, the energy industry would simply reduce production. The whole comparison of prices with us and abroad and possible solutions compared to what was eventually adopted by the government of the five-wheelers clearly shows that this government of ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates has not done enough for the Czech Republic and its citizens. She didn't do what she could. She didn't try hard enough because she didn't touch the price of energy at all, she didn't take any steps in that direction. Citizens of the Czech Republic will continue to pay too much, in a double way. First, the amount that will come to them in advance and in the final billing, and, secondly, by becoming more indebted and still at the expense of not only adult Czech citizens, but also their descendants, perhaps even other, unborn generations. But look at these prices: EUR 496 per megawatt hour of the current price, versus EUR 240 to the ceiling. We still have an incredible difference of EUR 256 per kilowatt hour, which the state should theoretically pay. Do you have any idea how fast this can go to the state budget? To bankrupt the Czech Republic? So we won't be like Sri Lanka in a few years. Why? There's no reason for that. In addition to the fact that the government does not want to touch on the mechanisms set up by the European Union as emission allowances, the implementation of a crazy green plan called Green Deal. She doesn't want to leave the Lipsky Stock Exchange, either. And let's face it, this seems to protect the interests of the owners of energy companies, or their major shareholders, at the expense of us Czech citizens, at the expense of maintaining a healthy state budget. Here we watch the robbery of the state, the robbing of Czech citizens live. This just can't be happening, and someone has to stop it. You can also see that in the European Union, while maintaining the current situation, the situation has practically no solutions. We don't have a chance to solve the energy crisis unless we change the nature of the problems. But this government doesn't have the guts, which is why it should end as soon as possible before it completely destroys the Czech Republic. [[14.10 hours]] Finally, I have to comment on where the issue of the energy crisis is at stake. Every day we hear here that Putin and the war in Ukraine are to blame. Yes, the war in Ukraine has certainly accelerated the energy crisis. But the source is the European Commission, the European Union and its green ideology - Green Deal. Since the last three German nuclear power plants are closing, there will be even less energy on the market. And as I say, it doesn't really matter if it's energy or potatoes, when there's something small, what happens? Their price just goes up. And so, unfortunately, it will also be in the future, which I am not happy about, because what happens is that the energy crisis will, unfortunately, continue in Europe, we will be dealing with its consequences, we will be making it out of the state budget at the expense of us and other generations, and I think that is a very bad solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Have a good afternoon. In addition, with the priority right, the President - I will only load an apology in order to do what is necessary, the Minister Vlastimil Válek apologizes from 13.45 to 14.45 hours for work reasons. I now give the floor to you, Madam President, prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Hubáčková, that is all. Desperation, unfortunately, is how I must describe the current level of management of the current crisis by the Cabinet of Petr Fiala. What I'm watching in public space, what I hear among citizens, what I'm watching here in the Chamber of Deputies, makes me think about the basic ability of this five-calice to help our citizens. It took eight months for us to get out of the point at the beginning, when the current five-police arrogantly claimed that ceilinging energy prices is not the way that only populists and extremists are calling for this solution, to a situation where we are discussing this proposal completely from the government coalition. While many commentators speak of our victory, I do not see it that way. I could still remember Prime Minister Fiala's statement on 29 August this year, which said that - I quote - the national price ceiling is not actually possible. However, this will not help anyone and nothing, because those who obviously lose are Czech citizens. From the perspective of Czech citizens, and of them, I must say that the coalition has finally moved, unfortunately, as the former Minister of Finance, I am completely constipated by the implementation itself. But let me say this one step at a time. The cost of the price ceiling will be up to CZK 130 billion according to the explanatory report. First of all, I have no idea how Stanjura and Síkela's ministers came to these 130 billion crowns. The reasoned report of the bill presented describes 11 rows - 11 rows! - the anticipated economic and financial implications of the proposed legislation for the state budget and other public budgets. There are three figures on these 11 lines outside the government's meeting date, namely that the commodity price will be paid to electricity at the price of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour including VAT and gas at the price of CZK 3 per kilowatt hour including VAT. The third figure is the estimate of the Ministry of Finance's impact on the state budget at a maximum of CZK 130 billion. I will quote - I quote from the explanatory memorandum: The proposed legislation will have an impact on the state budget. - Okay, that's true information, but I think it's pretty obvious. I will continue on, perhaps we will learn more - I quote: Government meeting on 12. 9. 2022 decided that the commodity price for electricity would be paid at the price of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour, including VAT, for gas at the price of CZK 3 per kilowatt hour, including VAT. According to estimates by the Ministry of Finance, this measure will have an impact on the state budget of a maximum of CZK 130 billion. End of quote. Okay, that's basic information, but I'm sure we'd all be expecting a more detailed analysis here. After all, only 130 billion crowns are quite an extraordinary intervention from the point of view of public finances. I read further - I quote: The specific amounts of expenditure that will be covered by the budget chapter of the State Budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade cannot currently be determined. These expenditures will depend on the specific conditions of the exceptional market situation and the parameters of government regulations issued under this Act. End of quote. The other three lines deal with the acceptance of environmental requirements. For the sake of order, however, I will mention them as well. I quote: The existing energy law is designed so that business in the energy sectors, that is in electricity, gas and heating, is linked to the acceptance of the environmental protection requirement. End of quote. I understand, I understand, as the former Minister of Finance, that predicting the cost of this legislation on public budgets is now burdened with a significant risk. On the other hand, I repeat once again, as the former Minister of Finance in this place, I must strongly protest that today we are adopting a law whose impact on public budgets will not be in the tens but lower hundreds of billions of crowns, and we have de facto no basis for this, no relevant analysis. I will use the words of the National Budget Board, which, yesterday at its press conference, warns that - quote: Appropriated interventions in the energy market can mean unprecedented and long-term burdens for public budgets. End of quote. I do not understand why the ministers Stanjura and Síkela did not present a law with different options for price developments and therefore various impacts on public budgets, i.e. different alternatives. Do you remember how they always called for all the different alternatives at the time of the covid? The plan, the exact calculations? How slowly did I have to count into the crown how many grant programs are going to be? And predict how long it's gonna take covid? The five-calice government had eight months since we started demanding a price cap, to prepare a high-quality analysis with different development scenarios, with different options. But they waited until the last moment, did not prepare the proposal and submitted a law in a form that is poor quality. The five-police government is playing a game with citizens for what else they can bear because they knew that today we have to support this bill because Czech households and companies are de facto on their knees and any proposal is better than the previous five-calice strategy - nothing to do. Minister Stanjur, I ask, how did you get the 130 billion crowns? Many economists expect even greater impacts on public budgets. It's not really about change in quotes today. These are the funds of our taxpayers, and the role of the opposition is also to discuss this subject. To sum up from the point of view of public finances - this is an unprecedented intervention at the height of the budget deficit, and with such a fundamental law, I would expect a much more detailed analysis of the impact on public budgets. However, this impact on public budgets is unprecedented also because of the late reaction, and he spoke about it very in detail and very specifically and intelligibly by my honored colleague Karel Havlíček. The very decision, as he explained here, is based on the wrong mechanism and is late. And you can joke about it here, five-calice officials, whatever you want. Citizens know that. [[14.20 hours]] From the beginning, the ANO movement wanted to put a price on producers, not distributors. In this case, only their profits would return to pre-crisis levels and we would not really talk about impacts of up to CZK 130 billion. Indeed, manufacturers would still generate multibillion-dollar profits. Unfortunately, with the solution came the five-wheelers late and manufacturers already sold energy to distributors at these high prices. That is why the costs mentioned are 130 billion crowns. If we were to lower prices to producers, we could lower the level of electricity exporters. For example, we will now pay six times more than in France, four times more than in neighbouring Slovakia. It's your fault! [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] Unfortunately, we are in a situation where the Czech Republic is led by a group - and I apologize for the statement - which is completely incompetent. This current government five-calice has enabled energy producers to generate billions of profits and is not even able to obtain a dividend from the state enterprise CEZ. There is also currently an amendment to the state budget for 2022 and the state budget for 2023. Neither of these fundamental laws contains current measures, just because the government coalition has fallen asleep. I now assume and hope that Minister Síkela will comment on this, that the energy tariff, which Minister Stanjura forgot - forgot - to put into the budget, in the draft budget for 2023, is probably no longer up to date. The 66 billion that the government coalition announced with great pomp, I don't think that's true anymore. When asked at a press conference by journalists, which I played twice to avoid missing something, government officials avoided the answers. So it was the blank check, remember? We also gave the government a blank check, we also passed here the Act on an energy-saving tariff, which was actually not mentioned in the law in more detail, but there was authorisation for the government's regulation, which was then approved by the government, she said, that is the 66 billion, except that in the draft budget for 2023 we somehow dropped the tariff, now we have the feeling that it will probably somehow remain silent. So we wouldn't want the citizens to end up exactly the same because you're going the same way. Once again, you want a blank check, once again, you want to decide by the government's regulation. I just hope you know what you're gonna do in that government order. The government's strategy is at a desperate level. Government communication is even worse. And once again, I recall the National Budget Board's position that the measures that indicate the attempt to get public finances on a sustainable trajectory, on an effort, on your plan to consolidate public finances... What's your plan? It's not gonna help you with the tell-tales with the cashier. We were in a severe covid crisis, you were calling us here to compensate even more, we were helping, I'm not saying that we did everything 100%, definitely no, that would be humble, but we were helping what we could, and of course we had a consolidation plan prepared. Longer, in some longer trajectory, because you just can't solve a structural deficit like that day-to-day. You promised the voters that it would be solved by waving a magic wand, how you would reduce the public finance deficit, how you would simply consolidate. And what did you do in nine months? Not a thing! Nothing at all. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] You're expecting a blank check again. You're blackmailing us again by having to raise your hand for this law. Try to keep an eye on your arrogance, your elitism, and try to think about the amendments prepared by Karel Havlíček and his colleagues. Try raising your hand for them. Try to help Czech citizens and try to convince them that you are finally serious about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u21	Thank you. We can now proceed in the debate to the written submissions, where he is the first Member of Karel Rais, Mrs Marie Pošarová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u22	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to address some but only some of the consequences of raising energy prices in the field of education in my contribution. The energy crisis that is cutting Europe is not only a logical consequence of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, it reveals in full nudity too much dependence on Russia, and it is, as has been said here several times, the result of the total rashness of Green Deal itself. On September 12, the government finally proposed a ceiling on electricity and gas prices for CZK 6 per kilowatt, including VAT and gas for CZK 3 per kilowatt, including VAT for small customers. However, we must also add a variety of types of distribution fees to the resulting electricity price, and then what we have heard here a few times, that the price for households and universities will be between 7 and 9 crowns per kilowatt in terms of electricity, and around 4 crowns per kilowatt at gas. As has been said here several times, it is a rather significant price, because earlier the price of energy was around CZK 2 per kilowatt, it was less than the koruna for the gas. Thus, the ceiling, even if necessary, is still at the price limit, much higher than what customers were accustomed to. Here I would like to repeat, because I did not know what the previous speakers had prepared, so on the general level towards the Minister of Industry I would like to ask why Slovakia, which buys electricity from us, has a ceiling four times lower, about 1.50 kroner per kilowatt, than the Czech Republic, which exports electricity, and at the same time the government defined us a price ceiling of 6, respectively 7 to 9 kroner per kilowatt. I could also turn here to why the price in France, Austria and the like is significantly lower than the ceiling in our country. The austerity tariff that the government has prepared, which it has probably been planning all summer, doesn't seem entirely thoughtful, because I think it should essentially cover all households by the end of the year, and even those households that have fixed energy prices should get a contribution to energy. But then, on the other hand, since the New Year, the government plans to change the contribution so that for most residents of the Czech Republic this tariff, or rather the contribution to electricity, will end. I'd like to go back to what I advertised that I'd like to focus on the impact on education. I'll take it from the top, so from the universities. According to the representatives of the College Council, they will not be able to pay the rising energy price without the help of the State. The year 2023 will be critical, because the general majority of universities have contracted energy by the end of 2022, but paying energy for 2023 in current price developments is beyond the possibility of universities without the State helping them. That's how the college council representatives put it last week. [[14.30 hours]] The President of the Czech Rectors' Conference, Rector Bareš, wrote a letter a few days ago regarding the increase of funds in the current budget, at least by CZK 1.7 billion, which is intended to cover increased energy prices in 2023. What I consider essential is that the rectors demand a cumulative increase of about CZK 5.5 billion, where, beyond the absolutely necessary increase in funding to cover higher energy costs, there is also a justification for the requirement to increase expenditure in higher education by about CZK 2.65 billion. This is mainly an increase in tariff wage components, an increase in social scholarships and so on, and there is also a requirement for an increase in expenditure in the field of science and research of about 862 million. If we look at the problem of increasing energy prices by optical numbers, we will pay CZK 7,210 at the unit price of electricity for one megawatt hour. This will result in the total cost of the resort of CZK 1.6 billion. Increase in gas prices to CZK 4 090 per megawatt (?) then means an increase of nearly CZK 1.2 billion. If we add transaction costs to this, the total cost of energy reimbursement is about CZK 3.8 billion, which is an increase in the mentioned CZK 1.7 billion compared to the costs in 2022. It could be said that universities can pay for this from reserve funds, that is, of course, a fact, but on the other hand, we have to consider that part of the reserves of universities has already been used during the pandemic of the covid. Therefore, universities must rely solely on the assistance of the Ministry of Finance this time. These are obvious impacts. As far as the less obvious effects are concerned, I would concentrate on the impacts that will mean increasing the normal cost of life of each individual student, I mean college and accommodation. Basically, study life will become more expensive hand in hand with increasing energy prices in virtually all its aspects. The universities want to cover the extraordinary increase in electricity prices, heat, gas in the form of their reserve funds, and, as I said, these funds are not bottomless, and they cannot be used for certain commodities, especially related to student life. An example is the cost of accommodation of a student or the cost of meals. Of course, these items are going to get more expensive and both go to the student himself. As far as Brno universities are concerned, I have the information from the house, and it has been continuously increasing and increasing the rails within the year. Masaryk University discussed the problem with faculty and student representatives in advance and explained the reasons for the increase. Similarly, other Czech universities consider the increase of the railway track to be a necessary step, while the university still bears more of the cost of accommodation. In Brno, students live at prices from CZK 3 to CZK 6,000 per month depending on room equipment and number of beds. Probably students are not going to run away because housing in rental property is not going to help them, because in commercial apartments, housing and energy are also going to get more expensive. Students would be partly helped to ease the increase in accommodation scholarships from the price increase, but this is dependent on the subsidy of the Ministry of Education and this subsidy support for accommodation scholarships has not changed yet, and therefore the school cannot make changes in the amount of scholarships provided to students for accommodation. By raising the university budget, universities would be allowed to cover at least part of the students' rising housing prices. Of course, students can theoretically apply for a social scholarship. The claim is governed by the Higher Education Act, but it is only intended essentially for individuals who find themselves in a difficult financial situation, and there the conditions are rather harsh. The beneficiary must have an income below one and a half times the minimum of life. In such a case, the student is entitled to a social scholarship of one quarter of the basic minimum wage rate. As far as food is concerned, there is a similar situation in menses. Perhaps it is also worth mentioning to look at the eating of children in kindergarten, elementary and secondary schools, which will make lunches more expensive. Even before the beginning of the school year and the leaping growth of energy, most schools announced that lunch would be forced to increase by at least 10 percent. I am shocked that, on the basis of information from the current press, at 18 percent inflation, when the investigation was carried out, three quarters of all Czech households are talking about the need to cut back on their children's education spending in the coming school year. Today, financial difficulties are not just faced by a select group of low-income families who receive social benefits, but the issue of increasing all the necessary commodities of our lives will have an impact on the vast majority of Czech households, and families with children, of course, feel this impact more dramaticly. Perhaps higher support from the state would help parents, especially single parents and single parents or low-income parents, by means of a lunch allowance. Alternatively, we could at least consider introducing the possibility of state-paid morning snacks in kindergarten or school cafeteria. Based on information from the Ministry of Education, I know that in the draft state budget for 2023, support for children for lunches is provided only in the amount of CZK 60 million. The Ministry of Education is talking about an increase of another CZK 10 million. However, even these funds do not cover the needs of schools or children at all or completely. Other support in the tens of millions of crowns is taken care of by nonprofit organizations and foundation funds, which, no matter when the money comes for lunches from the Ministry of Education, provide hot meals for really needed children at least once a day. Here it needs to be realized that the cash flow of this money is such that subsidies from the Ministry of Education come with a delay, so basically, the first months of the year are backed up from private sources of various organizations such as Women for women and so on. And if I look at it specifically, in 2021, the subsidy was $17 million, and it didn't come in March, so by that March, someone had to cover it up. It wasn't even until June in 2022, so it had to be covered by the donors. So here is important not only the amount of money, but also the cash flow. Finally, I would like to stress that it is therefore necessary to support from the Education Committee the above-mentioned requirement of the Ministry of Education, more precisely by representations requiring an increase in the state budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Education by at least CZK 5.5 billion. Then we also need to talk not only about the operation here, but also about how to deal with the crisis in the medium and long term, and to think about increasing energy self-sufficiency by heating up the building casings, installing roof photoelectric panels, installing heat pumps and other technical things. It is therefore necessary, or it would be appropriate for us to write a statement to the state, the government has drawn up subsidy programmes, but with a low degree of participation of universities or schools at all, because there is simply no money. In conclusion, I would like to say that I support the legitimate demands of university representation to increase the current budget and that these impacts need to be addressed precisely by increasing the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u23	Thank you, and with priority rights, Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is reporting. I will also make an apology to Secretary Anna Hubáčková from 15 to 17 hours for work reasons. Please, your priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u24	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members, I would also like to comment on this bill. And I must say that I listened very carefully to the speech of the Minister of Industry and Trade, and I must say that his speech did not convince me at all. I'd like to ask the Minister if he's going out with people. If he asks them how they perceive it. Because I go out with these people and these people are scared. They're scared, and they still don't know what's gonna happen. We all know when the energy package was approved here, it was approved sometime in May, and then suddenly it was approved again. And no one ever understood why that was. So it was said, there's going to be an energy package, and it's going to cost $66 billion. But there were still no specifics. And in my opinion, as I listened to you today, and what happened to the energy package will also happen to the energy law. You said here that the details of this law will then come through the government regulation and that you will submit this government regulation when this law is passed through the entire legislative process. This means that we practically, as our President of the Alena Schillerová Club has also spoken here, are asking for a blank check today, and only those specific things, the concrete steps will be in the government's regulation. I still don't understand why we couldn't get that prepared government regulation on this bill today, in which the specific things would be. You said it was electricity of 6 crowns, gas of 3 crowns. But it's not in the bill, it might be in the government regulation, and I think that's very irresponsible. I think if I were to present such a bill, I would also submit the government regulation. Even though I understand that government regulations can only be approved by the government. But it is clear that even if we approve this bill today in a legislative emergency, it will still have to be dealt with by the Senate, it will also go into committees, and it will be there for some time before the law is passed. And you made it very clear here today: I will submit a government order when this law is passed through the entire legislative process. This means that the specific things that are most important will then be in the government's regulation. At the same time, a number of people are turning to me, because when I was in the position of the governor, I understand that they pushed and promoted a lot, and it was very good, the boiler subsidies that many people reached, they got an ecological boiler. But today, many of these people are turning to me, Minister, that they have a big problem, because the problem is that pellets, for example, are insufficient goods, that they can't get them, or that they are at a significantly higher price. And they're practically in a situation, and the question is, and I think the Ministry should deal with it, even if the boiler subsidies are under the Ministry of the Environment, if they aren't dealing with any exceptions at the moment. Because these people are actually getting into a situation that if they violate the subsidy terms of the boiler subsidy, they're gonna have to return it with some kind of penalty. But if they can't get what they're practically carrying, that means if they don't get the pellets, then it's clear - so how are they going to deal with it? And they have to... Yes, but when today - Madam Secretary yells at me that we can of course use more wood, but if you look today, you hardly get briquettes or wood in the Czech Republic. [[Mushrooms]] It's practically as if it's in short supply, in short supply. So I'm opening it up here, if this isn't the way to open the debate with the European Commission in some way, in the context of the sustainability of these projects in this situation, and not to try to help these people in some way. I am also very surprised that the meeting within the Council of the European Commission took place on 9 September. We have the Presidency from 1 July. We have been here since January with proposals, putting forward bills, whether it be a zero percent VAT rate on energy, whether it be the use of renewable resources, which the Minister of Industry and Trade has agreed to at the moment. But he has agreed to this since 1 October this year, when the savings will be 4 percent. If he'd agreed to this from January 1st, the savings would have been between 15 and 24 percent. So it amazes me that, of course, the signal has begun to resonate more and more. Karel Havlíček was talking about it earlier today, the captains came in, everybody came in. So that's why all of a sudden it started to work out fast, and that's why it got called up on such short notice. Which I'm sure is a good thing it all came together in a hurry. But I think that such negotiations could have been at the beginning of July, in the middle of July, at the end of July, and that we practically did not make full use of our Presidency. At the same time, you must have registered, and I fully agree with that, for example, the Governor of the South Bohemia Region has clearly signaled because he saw that the government is doing nothing, we will not leave you in it, and he has made his regional subsidy programs that affect the most vulnerable, those who really need help, and he has written grant programs for families with children, grant programs for seniors, they are programs for circles, for sports, for language courses. And I can tell you that if I were in a position to run the county, I would do the same thing, even if every county is specific, and every county can write these grant programs. On the other hand, I understand that in the first stage the state should take care of this. Then the county, the city and the village will come. That's how it's set. But if you can see that nothing's going on for nine months, I'm not surprised that the county went that way and that he wrote out these grant programs. At the same time, I would like to quote one contribution from the Twitter account that says everything: "The Czech Republic should be like a pure electricity exporter, which produces most at about 5% of current market prices, a total economic winner. No, we'd rather be ruined." I think it speaks completely, completely for everything. And I have to say that what's being presented here today, and that it's coming to an extraordinary meeting today, I'm sure it's a good thing. But as my previous speaker, the excellent speaker Karel Havlíček, and above all an expert, clearly said here that it was sewn with a hot needle. But first of all, in this bill's proposal, there is no way that what is promised is mentioned. Once again, I stress that this will only be mentioned in the government regulation, which God knows when will be approved by the government. [[14.50 hours]] Therefore, I would like to ask the coalition once again that everyone read the three amendments tabled by the YES movement through Mr Karel Havlíček. Because we're putting those prices in there, and we're putting them right into this law. And that price is a crown of fifty per gas and three crowns per electricity. At the same time, there is the motivational component, that is the second amendment, and then the third one, which is the most important one, and that is the setting of the price at which the electricity or gas producer may sell electricity or gas, taking into account the reasonable profit of the producer, the cost and so on. So I would like to ask you that we have all made a promise here that we will defend the interests of citizens, that we will help them, and I think that at this moment and in this situation we should put aside opposition and coalition gloves, we should sit down. I'm a little sorry about the Minister of Industry and Trade, as he says sometimes, and I'm sorry that he doesn't sit down with our Karel Havlíček, that maybe there's not some table where they'd sit down, where they'd discuss things, because last time I listened to him here, and he said, "I'm gonna have sex with you at some debate, so I'm pretty sorry about the Minister of Industry and Trade's reaction, because I don't think that's the way it should be." And I would really ask you to leave today's House and really guarantee our citizens' help. And we'll guarantee it if those things are clearly stated in the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u25	Thank you. And now we return to the duly registered ones. Mrs Marie Pošarová is now next, and then Mr Marek Novák can prepare himself. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u26	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to comment on the price ceilings. If we compare how much people would pay at current market prices, if the government had not set the ceilings, the bills for electricity and gas would be roughly twice as high. On Monday night, the price of electricity on the European market reached EUR 469 per megawatt hour, i.e. approximately CZK 12,400. One kilowatt hour would go to 12.40 crowns. The government's ceiling is set at 6 crowns. The gas on the TTF business node, according to which prices are compared, was EUR 190 per megawatt hour on Monday, approximately CZK 4,750. One kilowatt hour would go to 4.75 crowns. So the government's set ceiling is 3 crowns. Thus, the government ceiling is a significant help compared to market prices. But then there are two more, far from flattering angles for government help. At this point, it can be said that even with government ceilings, the accounts of Czech families will be significantly higher than in many other countries of the European Union. Apart from France, Slovakia, electricity is cheaper for example Španěl or Portugalec. We prefer a pan-European solution, it only complements it, expands it and deepens it - repeated in recent weeks by members of the Czech government, who chair the European Union at that time, that is to say, he is leading it. On Monday evening, Petr Fiala's cabinet approved a ceiling on the price of electricity for households, the public sector and tradesmen at EUR 240 per megawatt hour, including value added tax. The government itself recounts it to Czech crowns per kilowatt hour, the ceiling reaches 6 crowns. It would be interesting to know if at that time the government of the President of the European Union had already known that the European Commission was preparing a pan-European ceiling for electricity at EUR 180 per megawatt hour, which is significantly lower than itss. In conversion to the government's favorite crowns and kilowatt hours, that means 4.50 crowns. It is this amount that is in the Brussels proposal, which, as it has traditionally been, escaped in the form of a test balloon into the media. It is not clear whether VAT is included in the ceiling. Even if it wasn't, the Brussels ceiling is lower than the Czech one. Neither of the answers is a good business card for the government. If, as President, she did not yet know the proposal on Monday evening and approved a national solution without it, it shows that she does not fully understand what is going on in Brussels. On the contrary, if she knew this, it is striking that it proposed a significantly higher ceiling on electricity than Brussels, i.e. EUR 240 instead of EU EUR 180. If it actually turns out that the Brussels one will be approved, the Czech one is considerably higher, completely unnecessary. Its lifetime would be about half a day. How this will actually work, unfortunately, we don't know yet. It is not entirely clear from the materials leaked from the Commission how the ceiling will be set. If this is the maximum amount that a customer in the Union can pay for power electricity, or the customer will pay the market price, which at this time amounts to EUR 469 per megawatt hour, and the ceiling is only intended to lead companies into state budgets, from which governments will pay compensation. Then people's accounts wouldn't be reduced directly, and they'd just be waiting for what the state would distribute to them. For Czech electricity producers, the European ceiling would mean significantly lower margins than the Czech one. The answer that is valid will be clear first after the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyenová, has published the details of a pan-European solution. But already people may feel from superficial media reports that the Fialův Government was less generous to them when setting the ceiling than Brussels and, on the contrary, gave much higher margins to producers. Fialův's cabinet is well aware that the balance between gas and electricity prices must be maintained so that when ceilinging electricity alone does not start mass leakage of people who are drowning more expensive gas, electric boilers and heaters. This would be directly threatening by overloading the network, which may not be built in many places. And when the details show whether the Brussels or the government ceiling is better for Czech customers at the price of electricity. For this comparison, it is necessary to know exactly how both of them will work. At the same time, I would like to present to you our amendments, which I will then present in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u27	Thank you, too. Another enrollment is Mr Marek Novák and Mr Jiří Kobza can prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u28	Thank you for the floor. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the Government, this meeting could simply be called a wake-up call and a follow-up hangover. We are meeting today to discuss after more than half a year what should have been discussed and what our neighbors were discussing while you were analyzing, sending signals and knitting sweaters. Yes, I am talking about Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Estonia, France, Germany, Austria, Spain and other countries where they understood much earlier than in our country that energy is a problem. We, too, have told you from the opposition. And you hear well, Minister and Professor Prime Minister, the names of these states are not enough. These are mostly countries that set an example for us by their approach to the state's economy. Have we learned from the experience of these countries? They didn't. At today's meeting, we are to approve a government bill to address the energy price crisis. Simply put, we are to consecrate the outcome of the government's Wednesday meeting. But what's more, we have once again, and for the second time, in this matter to sanctify the Bianko check to the government, just as it was in June when the energy tariff was dealt with, which no one still understands. It is only certain that it will help citizens and companies as much as a drop in the sea. Basically, I don't see any reason to trust you and put a tool in your hand that you won't be able to work with in the end. We're in opposition, and we're kind of in pliers. On the one hand, to the joy of the coalition and yours, Minister, we cannot say no to this proposal. After all, it's some help. On the other hand, it needs to be clearly stated: it is a poor solution, incompetent, inadequate, with a false estimate of the impact on the state budget, advertising message, probably your strategic communication. I'd be happy to explain all parts of my claim to your five-party. [[15.00 hours]] One. Totally wrong solution. There is one very important thing in our system of authorities in this matter. That's the Energy Regulatory Authority. This office has a task - and now I quote: We regulate prices, more precisely regulated energy price components, for which we issue price decisions every year. Price decisions also provide for aid for renewable energy sources under the law. It promotes competition in energy. It licenses energy producers, traders and other energy actors, which it subsequently supervises. It protects consumers in the energy market. That is why it is the right office for the consumer to turn to when he deals with his energy supplier or distributor. In other words, as early as April this year, the ERO could at least partially intervene and decide on changes in energy prices, at least recommend it. Why didn't he? Why didn't he? Why is sweaty government decisions valid after six months in this case? So let's cancel the ERU, let's make savings for this office to people who just don't give energy price jumps. They can't even do it with your stunt. It's inadequate. What have you been waiting for all this time? That it'll pass? Nothing's gonna happen? That it's gonna sit out or do something? They'll figure it out? Does the government even know that we have a hard fall ahead of us and even harder winter? You think if you only cost people energy four and five times, it's like nothing's happening? Two. Incompetent. You haven't actually done anything with this solution yet. You're giving away so-called indulgences, and you think it's okay. You are referring to covid, the government of YES. But there's no comparison here. Covid was a pandemic that hit everyone without distinction. The energy crisis is a problem that has affected those who have agreed to dream projects on alternative prices and, by the way, have stated that the Russian will supply us with some gas. He used this Rus to enforce his interests and the Czech government and the whole of Europe are now surprised and disillusioned. Do you even realize what's going on in the government today? Why are you still lying to us here? Isn't it time to just tell the truth and ask for collective support and solutions? Let's go over the facts. Trays are German and we can draw a fraction of the volume. When the German government approves the crisis situation in Germany, almost all the gas will go away. Just gone. Routes. We'll get more gas to the Republic. How? Which way? Yeah, you can turn around, the previous governments didn't build. An increase in pipe passage can be done in the order of units of percent, you know that. Do you really know how much gas the Czech Republic needs today? How hard is it, technically, to get the gas anyway? I don't know. Impacts on the Czech Republic. Do you know how and who is addicted to gas in our country? You know there are glassworks - they're not closing, they're closing. There won't be any glass. Foundries. The furnaces that are in reconstruction or after reconstruction are not broken down. Energy-dependent companies? I'm moving my production to the surrounding states, where they treat them much more, much more helpfully. They will pay taxes elsewhere, not in the Czech Republic. Won't you miss the money? What do we have left? They'll be unemployed. Once again, rows at the employment offices and arms stretched out. Not to mention agriculture and food industry. You're costing the state the last part of agricultural self-sufficiency. Farmers no longer know how to stand it, they do not know how to stand in a competitive environment in the European Union. Have you noticed how energy prices have already been reflected in food prices? Do you know how many times the price of oil, butter, milk has increased? Do you even know? And imagine that this even applies to crematoriums. Do you realize that thanks to your (?) steps threaten to end the crematorium, that they have a problem or, respectively, that it will be a very expensive last service to a person? In this state, thanks or better because of this government, the living for all the money, well, everyone's gonna be afraid to die so his descendants have the means to a dignified funeral. Don't you really get it yet? Don't you care that energy companies refuse to hire new customers? They refuse to connect new houses, new companies - not because they don't want to, but because they don't know what conditions you set and what they actually apply. The market is completely distorted and your actions really only deepen uncertainty. Three. nic to řešící about. Spouting about the release of funds and something to cover up is another talk into the wind. 130 billion is the amount you will spend by the end of October by this decision. The costs will be multiplied. And you know that because you're always going to deal with the consequences, not the causes. We live in an extraordinary time when the existing conventions and rules have survived and it is time to define them again. Just like when the EEC was created. First we have to deal with national problems, and then we have to deal with European problems. No house can be built from a rooftop. The adopted Green Deal energy doctrine is pure evil because it has made Europe vulnerable. The solution is to put the heads together and finally find out which state can and can help. So far, individual states are only attacking each other and the Czech Republic is doing best. The labelling of the European Union states, as has happened in the case of Hungary, needs to be ended. But there is a need to perceive the potential of all countries for the future of Europe. I won't forgive one comment. Do you actually know who Viktor Orbán is, career politicians? Do you know the situation of Hungary, its history? How dare you, with the knowledge you have, boss someone that they do good or appropriate this or that? Hungary, friends, as a member of the V4 as a member of the European Union, is an important partner for us to tackle energy poverty. Very important. On the contrary, your German model stops production in nuclear power plants. This will cause another lack of energy, which will, of course, encourage the growth of its price. Is that what you were dealing with at European level? If we weren't on the lip stock market, we couldn't care less. But this will damage us fundamentally. What about you? You're dealing with Orbán. Finally solve the Czech Republic for God's sake! Four. Impacts on the state budget. I have already said that your salon idea of 130 billion costs, which are notabene covered most of the VAT and other taxes income, is utopia. You're not really dealing with the effects. There's just some number here that's high enough to make no one imagine anything under it, and at the same time, the number that allows you to multiply in this imaginary world you created, multiplying it twice, three times, four times. B of this story is the real impact. They close businesses, threaten to bankrupt entrepreneurs and businessmen. They're releasing employees now. You really think people are gonna be home knitting sweaters? That they wouldn't want to ask you when it would end? What have you told them so far? What have you done for them so far? Maybe after a long search, I could find something. Trust, and your faith will heal you. But that's probably a little small in this situation, isn't it? [[15.10 hours]] People and companies don't understand you. I have a question here, and I'd like you to answer it. And now I'm going to quote because the government's communication is not understood and people are asking: "Our company is a trading company owned by 100 percent of the city. This company is a company that produces and supplies thermal energy in our city. The company operates 31 boiler rooms that take away natural gas. Of which 18 boiler rooms provide the supply of heat energy mainly for the population, meant for housing houses. The total consumption of natural gas for all sources of the boiler room is 4 500 MWh. The largest source takes 1 500 MWh of natural gas and it is a large collection, the other 30 boiler rooms collect 3 000 MWh of natural gas together, but it is 30 sampling points, none of which has a sampling of more than 630 MWh of natural gas, i.e. small sampling, with the largest sampling point of these 30 being 299 MWh of natural gas. According to the government, the ceiling on natural gas prices concerns households, small businessmen, small customers. The government intends to help large companies, which according to Minister Síka have consumption above 630 MWh of natural gas. How are we to understand these expressions? The ceiling is intended for the sampling point. So what we're saying here is, if one boiler room that we run supplies an apartment building with heat energy that has 13 flats and there's no non-residential space, and the 94 MWh of natural gas is consumed, which is up to that limit of 630, so the ceiling on the price of natural gas applies to it? So we want to ask, does the ceiling on the price of natural gas apply to each demand point, which is up to 630 MWh of natural gas consumption for a customer with multiple demand points? Or does the ceiling on the price of natural gas apply only to customers who have total consumption for all demand points combined up to 630 MWh of natural gas?" As you've heard, Minister, not quite the information you're giving is clear. And we'll be very happy for the city representative who sent this question if you'll answer what it is. It may also be in writing, but we will be very happy to know how it is or will be. Because again, you've come for a blank check saying that once the legislative process is completed, you'll actually convey the final form of aid. And all we have left is a blank check to grant you and trust you. But in addition, we also offer other solutions here through the suggestions of our colleague Havlíček and colleague Kubíček, and I would be very happy if you would support these proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a time that none of us have seen. If we are unable to find a solution, not a slapping wound, but a solution to our situation, then there is also a point in today's action. If you just need to vote for some undrholts (?) in the form of a blank check, then we could do it actually in correspondence. And that's the worst part. In a period of chaos and uncertainty, everyone should always come together - in the family, in the village and in the city, in society, but also here in Parliament. I consider your solution only to delay problems. From my point of view, this will not solve and solve the problem. We won't block this, but please, I know I'm talking about the wall, but let's look for real solutions so that we can really take a deep breath again, and not just us, but mainly citizens and entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. I am not asking, but I call on you, fellow Members, to vote in favour of the amendments made by colleagues Havlíček and Kubíček, who are really addressing the substance of the problem. And if you don't feel that way, at least don't interfere. People want it, we talk to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And before Mr. Jiří Kobza approaches, I will reload an apology. Mrs Renáta Zajíčkova apologizes from 14.45 to 16 hours without giving any reason. And then the next one may be prepared by Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want a free discount. You will remember this line from one story by Šimek and Grossmann, which best speaks of the absurdities of the government of Petr Fiala, and the remaining parties of the five koalice. The one with great fame has declared to the world that by ceilinging electricity and gas prices for households, the public sector and tradesmen once and for all, it has solved the energy crisis and the expensive disposal of citizens and threatening the existence of companies and thousands of jobs. Is that really true? No way. I can only rely on data that has been published in the media, so if, of course, there's already been any changes, I'd like to be taught, but I don't have any better information than I'm based on here. The government wants to put a price on one kilowatt hour of power electricity, including VAT on 6 crowns. However, power electricity accounts for only a small part of the total price per unit of electricity for customers, which is roughly 44 per cent of VAT, i.e. just over 53 per cent. And when we take into account the early remission of charges or the clearing of renewable energy sources, we're still somewhere at 60 percent of the total price. Thus, if the ceiling starts to work, the total costs of transmission, distribution, circuit breaker, power consumption, with a electricity tax of at least CZK 10 will be paid for one kilowatt hour of electricity. By the way, many electricity traders are still offering one kilowatt hour in total at prices between 8 and 9 crowns - this is likely to change - and until recently it was about 5 crowns, and a kilowatt hour of power electricity in the upcoming fixed contracts costs even 1.50 crowns to 2 crowns. So the government is de facto increasing power electricity and fixing it to more than three times, and its proposed ceiling, with which it comes as the last government in Europe, even a crown higher than the European electricity price ceiling proposed last week by the European Commission, should be at the level of 20 euro cents per kilowatt hour of power electricity, somewhere just below 5 crowns. And I am not talking about it at all, it has already been said here once or several times, that in our nuclear power plants, built by our fathers and grandfathers, we are able to produce a kilowatt hour of power electricity in a maximum of 40 cents. So the government's proposal and its subsequent bragging about the fixation are ordinary arrogance. In other words, it means this: we are more expensive than anyone else around us, but we are doing this, dear citizens, for your own good. We could get more expensive, move the price ceiling even higher. And as you can see, we don't. How good are we! And besides, what would market capitalism be if we didn't take enough into account the interests of CEZ's minority private shareholders? What if we saturate their interests from your pockets? Don't ask, clap! [[15.20 hours]] A similar situation is in the case of natural gas, which the government wants to fix on three crowns per kilowatt hour, which is 4.5 times more than in the now ending contracts. There is virtually only one reasonable price - to negotiate the supply of affordable verified gas directly with Russia, because there is no price, multiple or logistically reasonable and comparable alternative to Russian gas. And the same price goes to many other countries. [[On the way?]] The famous statement of Miloš Jakeš about the stake in the fence comes to mind in this context. In the future, we must ensure the energy security of our country through diversification of energy sources, namely gas, so that we are not dependent on one single producer. It is tragic when the Fialův government refuses to negotiate cheap Russian gas directly and prefers to buy it many times the price over German traffickers. Moreover, the Czech situation at the beginning of autumn is known and the greater the need for gas, the higher the prices. Trade laws work everywhere. The Purple Government has also not yet put a stop to energy prices for large industrial enterprises, which must be done, because otherwise many businesses are threatened with collapse and the subsequent redundancies of many of their employees, because they do not have to survive in a few months to expect prices to be fixed. After all, we have already heard such things from the government coalition that industry will not simply produce energy crises for some time. My previous speaker mentioned the issue of crematoriums, which is a matter that I have also raised several times, because over 30,000 people die every year in our country, and if there are problems with gas supply of crematoriums, there will be a very complex and ethically difficult to justify problem. So next to that thesis on two sweaters, they really look totally negative. However, we are talking about ensuring the basic needs of life, such as energy, for our citizens and entrepreneurs, which must not be subject to ideology or any activism, because the result is the current miserable state where Czech households and companies paid the highest prices in Europe for electricity this July, although we are paying among its largest European producers and exporters. Of course, we must also take into account the purchasing power of our population. According to the energy price index of households, for example, the inhabitants of Prague now pay approximately 52 euro cents per kilowatt hour of electricity after conversion according to the parity of purchasing power, which is about twice as much as the inhabitants of Bratislava and three times more than in Budapest or Moscow and four times more than the households in Bern or Oslo, Norway. It is an incredible and unacceptable paradox, but it is a development that is clearly under the responsibility of the government. The key reason for this situation is the intensive involvement of the Czech Republic in the single electricity market within the European Union, where some experts talk about the fact that from this point of view we are practically a seventeenth Federal State of Germany, not a sovereign state with its own energy policy. Even the tax burden of electricity for Czech households is practically the highest. Taxes, VAT, but this has already been said, represent a quarter of the price of electricity. Petr Fiala's government refuses to address the causes of this situation, and it has all the necessary tools and a political majority in both chambers of Parliament. Instead, it listens obediently and servilely to the German Government and the leadership of the European Commission and lets our people pay for their mistakes. It's like that smart hobby, but she deserves to be driven far into the fields by a stick. And no later than the moment the President of the House committed that cute phrase that the government is not about caring for its citizens. Then we have to ask what he's from and who he's supposed to care about. Probably about himself, whatever it takes to get a citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u31	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mrs Karla Maříková and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová can prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear government, businesses have begun to fight for survival. Businesses are losing jobs. There are huge problems like glassworks and porcelain factories. They are not worth producing because of rising energy prices and, above all, gas. Some have temporarily suspended production and others are going to do so, which also affects workers who lose their jobs. The builders are calling for help. It's not material. They can no longer burn bricks with expensive energy, and companies are losing jobs. If the government doesn't intervene, we'll have Armageddon. Jiří Nouza, President of the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, has been drawing attention to the impending problems for many months. It is one of the nine signatories to an open letter to representatives of the Czech industry, in which they call on the government to move quickly. School cafeteria's making lunches expensive. There's no place left to save. Lonely seniors who have worked for this state all their lives, walk around the supermarket looking for something cheap to eat. Eventually, they take away two rolls and Chinese soup in their basket. The single mother tells her two children outside the store: I can't buy you the yogurt I used to buy you. More and more families are sinking into poverty. Services are closed, they are no longer operational. We're losing clients. Middle class says he's gonna make it to the end of the year. A family in a regular family home misses paying 150,000 on energy, considering having to sell a car. Seventy-year-old widow says I have 14,000 pensions, 8,000 I'll pay electricity, 2,500 gas, for food and other needs will be 3,500. But her single-child daughter with two children is even worse off. These are not just headlines in the papers, but unfortunately the facts and reality of today after a very short government of the five-calice SPOLU and Pirstan. The Government of the Czech Republic, you come up with a proposal to resolve the current energy crisis, but you come up with it ten minutes after 12th and only out of fear of a possible fall in municipal elections and the pressure of the opposition and the public. Finally, our government swayed after the opposition's pressure, and on September 12, it decided to put a stop to energy prices. But be careful, it won't be soon, but maybe since November. The government decided to put the price of electricity on six crowns, including VAT per kilowatt hour. Yes, you can hear well, the electricity, whose production and distribution of the producer will go up to one crown, will be up to six crowns. Why not three when the Slovák made it to the crown of 50 and even in February? The producers would make a lot of money and the citizens today could pay for everything. In February, the Slovak Government agreed with the largest electricity producer in the country, the Slovak power plant, which is responsible for electricity production, to put energy prices on the ceiling. Slovak power plants will supply electricity to households until 2024 when the regulated component will be EUR 61.21, i.e. CZK 1 490 per megawatt hour. That's $1.50 a kilowatt hour. So the Slovak government knew and did it, but you didn't. As for the gas, it is said that it will come to us from the US to the Netherlands and cover a third of domestic consumption. Nice, but the American producer let himself be heard that he couldn't cover that kind of gas supply, because the gas is low. And I can also think of what our green eco-terrorists from Brussels, who have forbidden us plastic straws, earbuds, plastic cutlery, everything must be for electricity, even cars, is destroying agriculture because of ecology - and those ships that pollute the planet more than all internal combustion engines, they don't mind. Will our comrades spend it with Green Deal, or would it be more environmentally friendly to negotiate gas directly from Russia and move on to their hatred and ideology? [[15.30 hours]] Do you know why Bulgaria doesn't deal with the energy crisis? Because it replaced the government. Since December last year, energy prices have been known to be expensive because such a crisis does not fall from the sky. Such a crisis is always caused or planned by a person or a handful of people who seem to have little, swell and just want even more. So it was no secret to us, this artificially created crisis began at the time of the covideo. The government of the Czech Republic is watching its country's economy fall. Businesses are failing, people are desperate, and she's walking around waiting for what Commander Brusel will allow, order or command. Your attitudes look like you're not fighting inflation, you're supporting it. Let us ask ourselves, who is the government of the Czech Republic serving? It is certainly not for Czech citizens. Even though they put her in the ruling seats. But one thing's for sure. Whenever the fall of our economy appeared, it was at the oars of the ODS. We are constantly hearing that this crisis is a tax on the war we must fight. How many billions do we put on arms for Ukraine instead of negotiating peace. And I have to tell you again, just like last time, that no one declared war on the Czech Republic. You're the one who drags us into it with your attitude and expression of the individual members of this government. The attitude and views of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Bachelor Jan Lipavský, who is a total amateur in the field of foreign policy and will do more harm than good in his capacity, but for political nominations are more decisive for you than eruditions are the right ideological positions, and those of Minister Lipavský have and Prime Minister Fiala follows him. You know, when I read the biography of the Minister of Trade and Industry Jozef Síkela at the very beginning of this government's reign, regardless of the fact that he was nominated by the STAN movement, which we do not agree with programically in many ways, I expected a man who would have a move on the goal and be able to make a decision. Instead, we are witnessing that the Minister is waiting for a command from Brussels, he is on the spot and unable to provide an action solution. As a result, people will fall into poverty and rapidly reduce their standard of living. And don't expect to save it with two sweaters, as proposed by House President Markéta Pekarová, and with green thermos, as recommended by one of the pirate Members. You've done what no one else has done. You're putting us back 30 years in time. Holt isn't all gold that sparkles, or when a bird is trapped, it sings nicely to him. Yes, that is exactly how you, dear citizens of the Czech Republic, sang, and you believed them. It is known that Čech love fairy tales and we are also in world A fairy tales. Hopefully, comrades from Brussels will not ban them from us as an insurmountable Vinnetou who grew up to be one generation. It is hidden in every fairy tale of wisdom, and it may not be for the benefit of some ideologies that are trying to control us. And speaking of fairy tales, I can think of the one about a five-headed sleigh that plagues one kingdom that saves a brave, modest knight whose heart burns love and compassion. This love may not always be to a person, but there can also be love, responsibility to your country, to your parents, to their parents, respect and pride, because we Čech have the right to be proud of what they do. Our history is adorned by great names such as Karel IV, Jan Hus, Jan Žižka, Jan Amos Komenský, Bedřich Smetana, Dr. Janský, and I could continue this way. Love for your country is not extreme, it is solid roots and bonds. I just want to say to you, citizens, because this government, the five-calice, is nothing if I can see how bored Minister Síkela here is today, and he's letting you know. There are only two ministers sitting here today. This knight and his courage and strength have you, citizens, in your heart, just to find her and not be ashamed of her, you have great power only to realize if you didn't have her, today I would not stand here with humility and speak. And you, citizens, sent me here and 199 other MPs. In a week, the election is your imaginary sword, and the ballots are your imaginary sword. Think of my words, go to the polls, even those senators you don't go to. This time go to the second round and beat this ruling coalition that deserves it. Don't let them control the Senate. I have been with the SPD since 2015, and when I was standing in the first election campaign in the Karlovy Vary Region in Cheb with a SPD badge, the mayor of that time shouted to me for social democracy and called me an extremist. Today you, citizens, demonstrate for your rights, and you are five-wheelers to this government and some of their policies, members of the Russian Fifth Column and extremists. The path to the goal doesn't always lead straight and it's thorny and sometimes you have to go the way you don't like. But the dream of a free, sovereign country, where the Czech citizen and the Czech Republic will come first, when we will not feed the German economy, when we will not pay the Němec overpriced gas, when no unelected officials from Brussels will order us what we can and cannot do, is worth it. Don't be disrespected. Wanting freedom and a sovereign country, there's nothing extremist about it. Go to the elections, love your country, because she deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u33	Thank you. And please, another one registered for the general debate... I see a point of fact here, Mr Martin Exner. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, through Mr President to Mrs Karla Maříková. I would just like to say that no one declared war on Ukraine, and yet the Rus blew up Vrbětice and wage a war on us disinformation, energy and hybrid. And there are not unelected officials in Brussels, but there are our MEPs, there are also our representatives, for example, in the European Court and so on. And the chairman of the SPD here said he'd like to go to Russia. Well, I've had that feeling for years, and he's probably not gonna be alone. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u35	Thank you. And Mrs Maříková, with another factual report, came forward. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. To my foreman. No one has actually declared war on us, not even Ukraine, but you are dragging us into that war with your comments. When I see Mr Lipavský speaking, for example, I must say that I am very ashamed of him. We were with a group of friends at the Chinese embassy - there's a colleague from the ODS looking at me, and I think he too had to be ashamed of how the Minister behaves, what diplomatic relations he says he maintains. Otherwise, I wanted to respond, I'm sorry, I forgot, you mentioned the officials. As far as I know, there are officials in the European Commission who are not elected and who do not defend the interests of the states they represent there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u37	No one is reporting with another de facto, so we can go back to the general debate. And the next one is Mrs. Zuzana Ožanová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u38	Thank you, Mr President, for the second try, I got to the counter here. Once again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for an amendment responds to an unprecedented situation in the energy market. Finally. And why did it take so long? However, I must say that I have seen a significant shift towards the better in terms of the quality of the explanatory memorandum on the bill. Processors tried to present an overall picture of the difficult situation and unexpectedly inserted the analytical part containing clear graphs, tables in the explanatory report. This is a very important part, but the most important part is not there. While the explanatory memorandum indicates the impact on the state budget and the information that the existing energy law is designed to ensure that businesses in energy sectors, such as electricity, gas and heating, are linked to the acceptance of environmental protection requirements, but what is not mentioned there are social impacts. Although I know that the Ministry was not obliged to mention them there, I still believe that they should have been mentioned there. If the Ministry is not interested in social consequences, then why is it presenting this law? I just remind you that, according to the title of the chapter, we should learn about social impacts, including impacts on specific groups of people, especially people with social weaknesses and people with disabilities. Although the Ministry was forced by circumstances to submit a proposal, which they could have done earlier, so they are not even trying to hide their lack of interest in people. It would be sufficient for cooperation between ministries to earn social consequences to be mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. Analytical part excellent - thank you. Relationship to people - zero. But let us move on to the content of the law. Yes, we need him. I have to admit, that's all we have left. However, if the government is as fast as it has been, this law will not help us. I will therefore go to the specific provisions of the bill, namely § 19d. This provision refers to an exceptional market situation, but nowhere is a specification given of this concept, only the explanatory memorandum refers to the case law of the Constitutional Court, which interprets the term in some way. [[15.40 hours]] I merely recall that there is no specification of this term in the Price Act either. For me, ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that the Ministry must do this right now, but if it opens this law again, it would be appropriate to remedy this situation for one simple reason. We may expect various judicial disputes between the state and citizens, companies and so on, and yet we do not have to spend so much on litigation and possible damages. So let's try to specify the term. Minister Stanjura used in his speech at the previous point that he heard - little, late and wrong. Seriously, he heard right. It's the best situation to describe. One last thing, I won't be as long as my previous speakers. When you listen to the Minister - sorry. Yes. When I listened to Minister Síkela, I learned about Europe's dependence on Russian gas. So I looked at the bachelor's work of another minister from 2010 entitled Politics of Russian energy supplies on the example of natural gas. Dear friends, good reading. I would like to quote a paragraph from the conclusion of the work: although Russia is very well aware of its position on the energy raw materials market and openly declares that it is the development of the energy sector that will help the Russian Federation restore the shine of the power position, the analysis reveals that the energy supply itself is not a real political instrument of the Russian Federation. Dear Minister Lipavský, thank you for expressing your opinion in your Bachelor's thesis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u39	Thank you. Another duly applied for is Mr Roman Kubiček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief. I support all three amendments by my fellow Member, Mr Havlíček, in the global, and I would like to make one further amendment, which I have already announced at the meeting of the Economic Committee, which concerns disconnecting from the energy of non-payers at a certain time. Just to be clear, people are asking me what's on that invoice in the global because they're interested in the final price, which means what they're going to pay. These invoices are quite extensive, so I would just repeat that this includes the following items. This is the amount you pay for energy distribution, this is the so-called regulated part of the fees, the monthly energy charge that the distributor reserves for your demand point, the contribution you make to renewable energy sources, the fee to finance the operation of the Czech transmission system and the amount you pay to the electricity market operator. Furthermore, the unregulated part of the charges includes power electricity, including the supplier's commission, value added tax that goes to the Treasury, and excise duty that goes to the customs administration. You also have a lot of tariffs there, and as I learned yesterday, which I didn't even know, those tariffs are 26. So today, when we talk about the price of power energy or gas, we only talk about the unregulated part of the charges, and that regulated part of the charges will actually be supplied by your distributor on the basis of the individual tariffs you use. So to put it bluntly here, you're really going to find out on the basis of that price order that's going to be set. Now, I will be very brief, nor will I read everything, because I have put my press, including my justification, into the House system and sent it to all the members of the Economic Committee. So what's going on? I am very consistent, I have already pointed out here in February that energy poverty is approaching and that individual states are dealing with so-called disconnecting in different ways for the bad guys. This concerns those who are in distress, such as a single person, such as a retired person, such as a disabled citizen, a young family with no income, and a single child. And in November to March, individual states will not allow distributors to disconnect from electricity or gas or heat to protect their health and life. I propose, and this is all written in this amendment, in fact, that the electricity trader, gas and heat - end or interrupt the supply of electricity to customers in the course of unauthorised electricity collection - this does not apply unless the consequences of interruption are proportionate to the seriousness of the breach of § 51/1b, proportionality is maintained, in particular, if interruption threatens a specific risk to life or health by interrupting the supply of the affected. Yes, it is so that this proposal does not forgive the amount, so as to make it clear that we are forgiving someone here, but at this time there is some time to solve individual problems. And it has been said many times that some people do not ask or even know that they can apply for a certain contribution to housing, energy and so on, and that distributor in the global in those countries also draws attention to social governance and enters a solution, but for these months he leaves this participant attached. I'm going to make it a general standard, and I'm putting it into the energy law, not specifying the direct participants in this system, maybe it's going to be hundreds, maybe thousands. I am just pointing out that this is absolutely necessary, because the effects of energy price increases will quickly catch up with this whole republic, and even if these are individual cases today, they can be tens, hundreds, maybe thousands. Therefore, I beg you very much, please, it is a general standard, to support this amendment, which I have defended and in some way gained its support, although the Ministry of Industry and Trade wants to deal with it in a different way, but the other form, some decrees, regulations and so on, may include the specifications, the specifics, I understand. That's why it's in this general plane. You will find the reasons in the attached text, I will sign up for this in a detailed debate and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u41	Thank you. There is no real one, so another of the applicants is Mrs Klára Dostálová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, what can we say after all the speeches we have heard here today, and the real concerns that not only citizens but also companies consider government aid in the energy crisis to be inadequate, ineffective, unclear and slow. Since February, the YES movement has been appealing to the government to put the price on the table. We have heard many arguments, really many arguments, why it cannot be said that it is technically impossible, impossible, but also arguments such as that it is only the wishes of populists and extremists. That wasn't enough for us, but it wasn't enough for people. They went to the streets to give their opinion. Unfortunately, they too received contempt and frequenting by saying that they were pro-Russian cockroaches. It doesn't matter if the Prime Minister was talking about organizers or if he meant someone else. The truth is, the vast majority of these people didn't even know who was calling the demonstration. They went to protest because of the government's incompetence, they went to protest for fear for their future. Consumer confidence is at its ten-year minimum and well below the long-term average, real wages fall by almost 10 percent in the third quarter of 2022. The gross household savings rate fell from almost 21 percent of disposable income to 12 percent. People have real problems, and instead of understanding, they've heard words about the russian-minded people. The government overreacted because 100,000 people aren't a few individuals, and in society it started to get very hot. [[15.50 hours]] In fear of the approaching municipal and senate elections, the government began to take action in September of this year and summon the Member States. But the Member States usually already have their own national solutions, so the negotiations were in the spirit of telling each other what to do and that they would try to find a solution at the level of the European Commission. The result of these high-rises is that the Czech government has put energy prices on the table for end customers, to a real amount of CZK 7 to 9 per kilowatt hour, including distribution fees. The European Commission, in turn, has put a profit on energy companies, amounting to EUR 180 per megawatt hour. And I agree that we shouldn't keep dragging kilowatt hours, megawatt hours, euros and crowns around here, so the 180 euros per megawatt hour is 4.30 crowns per kilowatt hour. Above this threshold, Member States can then apply the so-called solidarity tax on disproportionate profits. Well, the other countries, especially our neighbouring countries, have long since had a ceiling for households and companies, but much more advantageous than in the Czech Republic. For example, Poland, which imports our energy - once again, it is simply incomprehensible: Poland imports our energy, the energy produced in the Czech Republic - has twice the lower price. How is that possible? Well, because the government responds late and absolutely wrong. And on top of that, it's going to cost us 130 billion, actually sorry, 160 billion, because it's going to cost us 30 billion in compensation. You, as a government, have passed these costs on to the state, to the citizens, to the budget. And everyone has to ask questions after all the shows that I come up with, Minister. Why do we stop at the final customer and not at the output of energy companies? It is clear from the bill that the ERU, the Energy Regulatory Authority, will control purchases exceeding the price of the ceiling, which must then be compensated by the state budget. The question is, and unfortunately, even yesterday at the meeting of the Economic Committee, the representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade confirmed that no one, I repeat, will control purchases under the price ceiling for new contracts, so it can also be done so, and the MIT has actually admitted that it can happen that even if the energy company buys or produces electricity cheaper, it will sell it to us, final customers, for the price ceiling. And I have to ask from this level... We've all read that the state - although I don't understand how you handled public support, but this is not the subject - has lent billions, tens of billions to energy companies to trade on the stock market. And I'm sorry, but I have to ask that question. Does this mean that if energy companies buy electricity cheaper, but they'll sell it to us for 7 to 9 crowns, that we as people and companies will pay off the debts of those energy companies? Nobody can be serious. Why didn't you step in at the beginning of the year when it was possible to deal directly with entry prices, i.e. from producers? Nothing would have to be compensated by the state, and producers would not have hundreds of billions of profits, but would have profits in tens of billions. After all, we're all used to it. A Czech citizen wouldn't have to pay 130 billion. But that would have to work here, the courage to resist the energy lobby, but unfortunately, the courage of this government is not here, it wasn't, and it probably won't. The second point I would like to pause on is what you came back with or what the European Commission has done. The European Commission is going to put up profits at EUR 180 per megawatt hour, so we just thought that it was CZK 4.30 per kilowatt hour. Over this amount, Member States may then apply a solidarity tax. Well, if anyone knows that there's gonna be a special tax going on above a certain level, then please, maybe we're all feet on the ground and we know that all these energy companies can fit into this ceiling so that no solidarity tax will be payable if possible. This means that no Czech citizen will buy less for new contracts - I repeat: for new contracts - only for 7 to 9,000 crowns per megawatt hour or 7 to 9 crowns per kilowatt hour. The profits of energy companies will be huge thanks to us, because we will pay the ceilings, but not big enough to pay a solidarity tax. So who's gonna pay for the whole thing in the finals? Who? Well, we, respectable citizens, us and the companies. ČEZ has extreme profits already. EBITDA for the first half of almost 60 billion crowns is twice that. Are we going to tax retrospectively? So why don't we raise the dividend? Of course, every company can and will soon optimize. We're probably gonna miss the train here, too. So the question is, who or where does Minister Stanjura find finance in the budget, because I repeat again, our national solution by failing to come up with it in time and choosing a completely different way will cost us 130 billion or more, because of course another 30 billion compensation, but I will get to that. And it is indeed the responsibility of this government. The third point, which was also discussed yesterday on the Economic Committee and which I would like to share with you, is a state trader. Of course, from the logic of the matter at the Economic Committee, we have dealt with how it will be with the public sector. The Minister assured us that a state trader would work for the public sector when he was licensed, probably Prisko. I hope they get that license as soon as possible. But what's interesting is that this state trader is going to sell without a trade margin. This is of course a good, certainly a good signal for all regions, municipalities, cities, hospitals, social facilities and so on, but logically it is offered - so the Czech authorities without a trade margin, so why should it buy with such huge profits the end customer, which we are all citizens and companies? The fourth point, which we also mentioned on the Economic Committee, and we tried to appeal to the Minister, is to think first of all about the competitiveness of Czech companies. If something doesn't happen and the companies break the supply-customer relationship, no one can straighten it out for years. And how it can turn out otherwise than that those Czech companies are going to go bankrupt when the surrounding countries have lower prices than we do. After all, each of us knows that the price of energy will be reflected in the cargo of the product or service, and they will not be able to compete with those other markets when, for example, Portugal has it at EUR 150 and so on and so on, and so on, my colleague, Vice-President Havlíček, has said that we are truly uncompetitive within the market. And if we destroy the Czech industry like this, I apologize for calling the government a gravedigger of the Czech industry, because there is no other way to say it. This will affect how the manufacturing industry, it will affect tourism, all business entities. And does this government really want to wear it? Companies stop being competitive, and do we want to live to find their headquarters and their sense of business elsewhere? It's not just about the company moving to another member country, it's about our people losing their jobs. Or do you want them to move to other Member States in bulk? Unfortunately, it's like dominoes. The first cube has fallen, and I am very worried that the other cubes will follow. The next item is helping companies. Big companies, 30 billion. I have read in the media, and I do not know, of course, whether the Minister has actually said so - we will support 8,000 companies. So if we divide it, it's $4 million per company. Well, I don't think that's really gonna save any of those companies. And the way we choose them, the 8,000 companies. Are we gonna pull them out of a hat or how are we gonna deal with this? It's a huge potential for corruption, and I think we really don't want anybody. After all, we all have to realize what is most important to industry. It's predictable. Each company must be able to plan its production, its number of employees and so on, but the environment that we set up in the Czech Republic is absolutely unpredictable. [[16.00 hours]] On the sixth point, there's little talk about it, I don't hear any government saying what a heat plant. So how will they drown, and how much will the people in the housing estates who depend on the heating plants drown? It's about millions of people. And we're doing it like it's gonna bubble up somewhere, some problem, and we're not gonna deal with it yet, we don't know how to deal with it. But those 4 million people are also worried about the cold that's actually just outside the door to have enough heat for their children or their parents. I really don't want to be primarily critical, it's not even my style, but in the event of an energy crisis, it's really the government's step, the step wrong. Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Fiala, not to say anything, and now I quote from yesterday's interview with the Czech Radio that no one will pay for multiples of what he has paid so far. Prime Minister, despite the ceiling, we all know we're going to pay multiples of what we've been paying so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u43	Thank you, and other applicants are Mr. Vladimír Zlínský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, I confess that I will speak in a completely different way from the others. You may be getting used to the fact that my approach is more scientific than political in my performances. So I took the liberty of looking at the energy issue and the current crisis through the theory of the system. Since I've had it a little bit longer, I've been asked to cut it a little short, so I'm going to make a request, but I'm pointing out that I'm starting to say in one third of the performance. Then you may not understand some of the terms. However, I think most of you are educated, that there shouldn't be a major problem here. Like other social systems, the economy is also an open system that cannot be separated from the current of external energy and matter that constantly transforms. The basis for the permanent existence of human society and life on Earth is the production of energy on the Sun thanks to the thermonuclear synthesis of helium, made possible and triggered by massive gravitational forces and energy for releasing a large amount of free energy in the form of photons into the surrounding area. You'll probably think about how it is with uranium, because, of course, uranium is or is being used to produce energy, and I really don't have time to explain it here. When there's more time, I'll tell you. There's a connection somewhere else in the past. Because of this dependence from the external energy stream, economies can be placed in dissipative structures. These are structures that need energy to sustain them, otherwise they will cease to exist, simply disappear, or disipate. It is therefore able to reduce its own disorder in entropy as other dissipative structures, but only at the expense of free energy from the environment, which it then passes into this environment in degenerate form, in the form of heat radiation. On the other hand, thanks to the effective ability to convert external energy, and this is now important and interesting, the economy is showing a considerable cohesion, or integration capacity, as a dissipative structure. It is therefore capable of homeostasis, i.e. maintaining basic parameters of the internal and external environment at a constant level over the long term. The economy is therefore capable of spontaneous self-regulation and self-organization through external energy intake. Here you can see how important this energy is for the stability and functioning of the economy, otherwise without energy intake it will have a tendency to decay relatively quickly. Furthermore, the evolution of the economy may be similar to the evolution of life and environment through relatively long periods of homeostase, stable development, interrupted by major changes, called punktuations, or periods of sudden acceleration of evolution. These are called crisis periods, these accelerations. The economy as a large open system is exposed to internal and external fluctuations, but in an area close to equilibrium, such a system is resistant to fluctuations and behaves almost recurringly, or cyclically. However, in highly uneven states, certain fluctuations are reinforced instead of suppression, which is what we see nowadays, where many fluctuations have actually surfaced, which somehow flow and can captivate the whole system and force it into completely new behavior. In this situation, the economy will become chaotic, or there will be no regular cycles. As a result of a small or larger random breakdown, in this case we could say that this could be a war conflict in Ukraine, the economy can become unstable and jump into a qualitatively new state. In terms of chaos theory, the economy is a social system operating in conditions with limited resources. I think it is extremely important for us to realise that actually there is currently a competition for this limited number of resources. Live communities are constantly introducing new ways of using resources, discovering new sources or new ways of reproduction and development. The mere interplay and small random factors at the time of instability are sufficient to disrupt symmetry. However, individual initiatives are gaining strength and importance in the field of bifurcation. Individuals, new ideas or new behaviors can change the overall state. I'd say one of the biggest ideas of chaos theory is called Ilya Prigogine. And I'd just sum up what to draw from it. The near future will show whether the system of global human society and the economy, or some of its systems, is in an uneven state, and thus whether we are heading to a phase of chaos and a new arrangement of the system. If this fact is true, it should encourage all the active and competent elements of the system, including each of us, to increase efforts to address this possible future chaos. The reason for this is that even a small contribution can have far-reaching consequences for the further development of a new system arrangement. Furthermore, by rational measures, we should try to prevent the transition to chaos, or possibly to avoid a catastrophic scenario, and to prefer a gradual and unfestive transition to a new arrangement that will reflect better reality so that the system is brought back into an oscillating balance state, however, it is necessary to think and prepare for less optimistic scenarios. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u45	Thank you and I see here one de facto from Mr Milan Brázdil. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u46	Thank you for the floor. Doctor, Mr. Colleague Zlínský, that's too much, this. This is too much. I followed the minister, he rolled his eyes, and he didn't know where he was. He understands the crown to the max, so you know he's some guy who's been in banking. You're out of line! You should have just said, "Guys, and I'm learning this, this treasonous government - I'm telling you again - doesn't give a shit about you. He's doing some kind of gesture that you're not gonna feel good and foggy. I know that maybe, okay, easy, yeah, maybe something's gonna get a little better, but you're definitely not gonna be happy. Please - where did they find me? Says the rapporteur here. Where they found me. [[Voice from the O.R. In the chopper!]] You're right, colleague, yes, I'm an ambulance doctor, and I'm still looking at the world with my feet on the ground. And I guarantee you that these people, our people in our homeland, understand that when they find out that they will have to pay more than that and that no one cares about them. So that's the result. From today, the result is that we want to make it better, so it's not so bad, the government sends a signal, and you guys are gonna pay for it eventually, don't worry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u47	So another one with a fact is signed up by Mr. Zlínský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u48	I won't argue, I'm aware that my performance was quite difficult. But it's due to the fact that I'm often warned that I'm making up some theories that I'm scaring people, that it's built on water. So I'm here to demonstrate that it's not built on water, that there's a theory of chaos that comes from the theory of systems. And I'm counting on a lot of educated and intelligent people sitting here, so I took the liberty of getting off with a story like that. And if I've offended someone or just didn't understand it, I'm sorry, he can come to me, we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u49	Thank you. And he wants to respond with the de facto Member, Mr Petr Letocha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, dear colleagues, I would like to respond. Here - I think that the Member should think about whether he wants to be a Member or a senator, because these Senate campaigns are a bit prudent. At the same time, I would like to respond to what he said: treasonous government. I heard from the opposition today that we should, or that someone from the opposition went to negotiate, or for the gas to see Putin. I would like to remind you what came out in the media today, when Putin clearly says that if someone makes any political decision that goes against the treaties, then he doesn't deliver anything, he won't keep the contracts. And at the end of the interview, he quotes a Russian story: "Freeze, freeze, freeze, wolf fluff." And you want to go begging this man? You want to go to Putin and ask him if he'll supply us with Russian gas? Is that what you want? Go to a man who has failed several times as a supplier of Russian gas? That's what I think, if there are any words out here that we should be ashamed of ourselves or that someone here is ashamed of what the government is doing, then I am ashamed of what is being done here at all, when it comes to negotiating with Russia and Putin, the words of the opposition fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u51	Thank you for your contribution. And I see here again the reaction with Mr Brázdil's de facto Member. I'd just like everyone to really respond to what was here, so we don't make it out of it now. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u52	Yes, I will respond to the Member, I don't know his name. The one who spoke in front of me right now and asked me to think about whether I wanted to be an MP or a senator. Then I'll answer you. I'm a Member, so I don't want to be one, I already am. I already am, and I want to be a senator. You understood me, I answered you very simply. After nine years, I want to be a senator. And I was clear about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u53	Thank you. And that ended the factual remarks on the previous contribution. I will therefore ask another registered member, and this is Mr Róbert Teleky. And I ask for peace in the hall, so that the MP can have some room. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u54	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it my duty to speak here now and to comment on the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act. Perhaps all of us sitting here are aware of the extremely difficult situation our country and its government is in. And especially in the field of energy, this applies more than anywhere else. A year ago, almost a million customers lost their electricity or gas supplier after the collapse of Bohemia Energy, and the market had to deal with this complexly. Since February of this year, we have only a small piece of our borders with a large military conflict, which immediately affects us. Among other reasons, the Russian Federation has been a basically exclusive supplier of natural gas to our country for many years. There was a huge rise in prices and again especially in energy. This cannot be ignored by the years underway in the transformation of energy due to climate change, which, especially this summer, have shown a significant impact on Europe's territory. Clearly, then, our country and its government must face and face the rolling challenges. And it has to be said that it has succeeded. We have filled natural gas tanks for almost full capacity. We have secured LNG terminal in Holland and transport of this gas to the Czech Republic. The government introduced an austerity tariff and abolished the payment for renewable resources. Together with another measure, this represents important assistance for households and businesses. But, as it turns out, even these steps are not enough, because energy prices simply rise to huge heights and the impact on ordinary people and companies would be unacceptable without further intervention. I therefore welcome the proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act, which brings, above all, a ceiling on electricity and natural gas prices for the duration of an exceptional market situation. I believe that the social system in which the government has also declared the necessary adjustments will work for those population groups, for which the prices will be too heavy a burden. At the same time, I hope that the government will also use the possibility to withdraw the ceiling only to a certain part of the consumption when setting the details in terms of the price ceiling in the government's regulation. The Union regulation also lays down certain limits so that households are thus motivated by austerity. In the context of the current crisis situation, the proposed amendment to the Energy Act clearly means a step in the right direction. It brings much-needed security to households, businesses, and institutions, the certainty that the price of electricity and gas in the coming months will not be higher than the government is setting, and that everyone can handle the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u55	Thank you. And another of the applicants is Mrs Lenka Dražková. You have the floor, Madame. Sorry, Dražilová. And we know each other, we know everything I'm looking at. I think about everything else, so I read it wrong. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have had a longer speech prepared, but I will make this really short for a specific matter. You guys who know me know that I'm not a fan of any kind, that we're gonna attack each other for hours. But I'm sure it's our common task to fix the situation quickly now, because the citizens aren't really going to pay for our fights. My colleague Klárka Dostálová has already mentioned this, but I think it is important to really stress this here. I want to talk about a specific problem. The result of the government's last-minute energy problem is that it exposed uncertainty to millions of households that are connected to one of the district heating sources. Because from all the available sources, it is clear that heat plants are not subject to energy price reductions, so I would like to talk specifically about this here. I will read you one of the many emails that I have received: Our company is a heat supplier for several thousand households. We use natural gas for heat production and, of course, we are also affected by the extreme increase in its price. We are multiplying questions from our customers as to whether the price of energy will also apply to the price of heat. So far, the government's information only talks about the ceiling on the price of gas and electricity, but there is no mention of heat from gas power plants. Haven't they been forgotten? Unfortunately, the contribution of CZK 4 000 to the apartment from the economic tariff is far from enough. If nothing changes, there will be an extreme disadvantage for citizens who take away heat from central supply by heat to natural gas, compared to those who use heat from domestic boiler rooms. [[16.20 hours]] And now, please, a very specific example. We have two apartment buildings. Apartment house number one, apartment house number two with the same number and flat. Apartment house number one has its own home gas boiler room, the heat consumption of this apartment house is 1,000 gigajoules, and it will therefore have a ceiling price of up to 3 crowns including VAT per megawatt hour. Apartment house number two draws heat from the central heat supply that makes it from natural gas, and the heat consumption of this residential house is also 1,000 gigajoules, which means that the price of natural gas for heat production is not covered. At present, the price of gas is two and a half times higher than in the case of the boiler room. From the above it follows that one apartment in the apartment house number two will pay CZK 27,500 more than the one in the apartment house number one. And there is one more important aspect to mention, and that is that if there is a non-payer in the apartment house, God forbid there are no more taxpayers, there is no legislation in this country on how to disconnect this non-payer from the heat supply. And I add that because somewhere they operate the city's heat supply, it will, of course, have a domino effect on the city's budget. I therefore appeal very much to the government to immediately begin to address the aid to citizens who use heat from gas heat plants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u57	Thank you, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, and I see here a factual one, Mrs Berenika Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to ask Minister Síkela, I don't have to go through, I can say if he'd be so willing and worthy or if he'd like to comment on the amendments that fell here, because then you'll say it in that final word and we can no longer respond. So if you'd be so worthy of reacting to these suggestions here in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u59	Thank you. And no one's really applying anymore, so we can go to another properly signed up for the general debate, and this is Mr Robert Stržínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I am trying to be very brief. Let me interpret the opinion of a number of companies that I have met and discussed in recent days and which have turned to me as a member of the Zlín Region and as well as the mayor of the town of Valašské Meziříčí. It is the largest companies of our Zlín Region associated in the Association for the Development of the Zlín Region. Even these companies fight high energy prices and expect help from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Not only their competitiveness is threatened, but in many cases the very existence itself is threatened. It is absolutely unacceptable for them, according to a piece of information from the media, that the planned support of businesses is directed only to companies that are in loss. This approach is discriminatory and would damage those companies that invested huge resources in modern technologies and energy savings. However, according to the information available, I fear that, on the contrary, those who have often gone the other way or simply slept with innovations will be supported. Helping big businesses is important. It is the largest employer in our region. If the government does not find a way to compensate them fairly for the high energy prices, which together with wages make up their largest cost items, it is actually threatening to go into major existential problems within a few months and begin to release them. At this point in time, the current government also does not address the issue of supporting industrial heat plants. I am personally interested in heat plants with rated heat output greater than 200 megawatts. These are heat plants that produce heat from natural gas and supply part of this heat to urban heat systems which subsequently supply households, schools, kindergartens and other public institutions, including social facilities. With us in Valašské Meziříčí, advances on heat for households have increased from CZK 1,000 per gigajoul to the current CZK 2,500 since the beginning of the year. In previous years the average price of heat was about CZK 500 per gigajoul. This year will most likely be more than CZK 1,600, which is more than three times that. It is essential that the government immediately finds a way to subsidize those heat suppliers who use natural gas to produce it. I therefore ask you, Minister Síkela, for an immediate proposal for a solution that will enable industrial heat plants to reduce the price of the heat supplied both for public institutions and especially for households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And another duly registered member is Mr Hrnčíř. And before that, I'd read the note. Mr Jiří Mašek from 15.00 for health reasons, Mrs Monika Oborná from 15.00 for health reasons and Mr Slavík from 15.00 to 20.00 for work reasons. And now, therefore, Mr Hrnčíř. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, let us go and help our citizens. For two years, they've been living in fear and affected by various restrictions because of the coronavirus pandemic, a lot of them lost their jobs or had to quit their business, and now there's an incredible price added to all of this. Indeed, the current level of inflation is already a real problem, and it will not only help to stick your head in the sand and look away. The reality is that the absolutely insane green policy of the European Union and its emission allowances fired electricity prices, and thus the prices of goods and services to the heavens, and this government is completely clueless, impotent in finding effective solutions. What is more, not only can she not find a solution herself, this government also punishes citizens when they go abroad for their purchases due to the incredible price of food and fuel. You sent Customs after them. That's completely insane. Instead of restrictions, people need to be helped, inspired by neighbouring states, and finally here in the Czech Republic to take effective measures against the increase in energy. Yes, this is part of the speech that I presented here at the House of Deputies in mid-February this year. Even then, I stood here asking the government coalition to act effectively against rocket-growing energy prices. Even then, the situation was critical. Even then, the surrounding states took action, and our government did nothing at the time. Something, actually. As I mentioned earlier, she wanted to punish citizens who ran for cheaper purchases to neighbouring countries. I'm just pointing out that it was before the war in Ukraine. The countries of the European Union have begun to defend their citizens against senselessly rising energy prices. For example, France has broken down the price of power electricity on the koruna twenty per kilowatt hour, Slovakia on the koruna fifty. That's already been said. What did our government coalition say? Instead of ceilinging energy prices, it proposed to reduce temperature in homes, offices, hospitals, or schools. In doing so, she wanted to exploit the decree, which would also violate the law by changing it. Not only was the government's proposed solution unethical, but it was also illegal. The proposed strategy by the President of the House of Pekarová, Adamová, of wearing several sweaters at the same time, I would rather not comment. We in the SPD have long called for a ceiling, i.e. regulation of energy prices. In the long run, we say there is no other way. For example, it was clear that the Czech Republic would have to do this. The question wasn't, when. Yet, you members of the government coalition continued to claim that this solution was populist, ineffective, and impossible. Time has passed so far, and the situation of our citizens, businessmen and companies has become increasingly desperate and impervious. It was clear that help, if it ever came, would not arrive for many people and companies on time. Despite the insistence of us opposition parties, despite the desperate calls of citizens and businesses, you have continued to promise aid, possibly proposing only completely inadequate solutions and literally no cosmetic modifications at this time. You were counting on an intervention from Brussels. You were talking about a pan-European solution that still wasn't coming, and you were probably hoping for a miracle from above. I don't know, I really don't know what led you to hesitate and analyze for so many months, to convene expert meetings, to promise that you wouldn't let anyone fall, and yet you did nothing or very little. You had to know that every day is important, that every day that the solution is delayed, decides on the existence or absence of companies, tradesmen, and whether a number of people fall into insolvency or have to face executions. Yet you stuck your head in the sand for seven long months. Now, a week before the municipal and senate elections, you stand here and want to put a stop to energy prices. Until recently, in your opinion, a populist and expensive solution is now desirable and feasible? What's the change? I will no longer delay, nor will I read the prepared speech until the end, it is useless. I was terrified to find that instead of an effective solution that would really help our industry not to go bankrupt, so that by the end of the year they would not have to fire employees, so that people would not fall into executions, insolvencys, so Prime Minister Fiala ordered a speech. He ordered a speech at 8:00 p.m. on Sunday, five days before the election to speak to the nation, to abuse his post for political promotion. I must say, my friends, they -- neither the companies nor the citizens -- they don't need warm words, they don't need to hold hands. They need real help. And I wonder if Prime Minister Fiala will have so much honor in himself that the same space that he usurps for himself every three months to speak to the nation on the television channels, if such a space negotiates for the opposition. I think that would be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u63	Thank you. And Mr Radek Vondráček, Mr Vondráček, came forward with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u64	I would like to respond with a factual remark to the previous speaker. I like parliamentary debate. And the one today, maybe it's sharper, it's conflicting opinions, but that's the way it's supposed to be. That is why, with great displeasure, I have learned the very information that the Prime Minister should speak with an extraordinary speech on Sunday, a week before the election, when he will cancel the debate on Prima first and then make his own speech. I consider it a gross abuse of the Prime Minister's office. [[A round of applause for opponents.]] It is contrary to the principle of fair access, fair campaigns, contrary to the law, contrary to fair campaigns and equal access to the public media. There's nothing special going on except that the government can't handle it extraordinarily. There's nothing new since Monday and Wednesday's press releases. There's no reason for an extraordinary speech. I want to challenge the Prime Minister. I want to take advantage of the fact that this is live. I say, Prime Minister, drop your intention to have an extraordinary speech a week before the election, because it is contrary to the principle of fairness. It is against some principles that honor equal access to the public media and keep your speech after the elections. [[A round of applause for opponents.]] I don't remember anything like this happening in the past. We've had an extraordinary speech here. You all know that there was no new reality. So don't be surprised we're having a hard time putting up with the opposition. Variant a) let him drop the speech, I challenge him once more. The second option would be to give the same space to the opposition at the same time. But I think it will be more reasonable for everyone and for the future if the Prime Minister doesn't have that speech on Sunday. Once again, I challenge him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u65	Another one entered in the general debate is Mr Richard Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleagues, my colleagues, my dear government, my citizens, so first of all, I join what my honourable colleague Radek Vondráček has just said, that this is indeed an unauthorized support and crutch that the coalition will use in this way, and I hope that the Prime Minister will reconsider. But what I wanted to say, and it's primarily for the citizens. Dear citizens, the government is trying to tell you today that thanks to its (?) extraordinary clarity to subgenius and superhuman effort and thanks to its actions you may save ten times more on the energy you would have paid a few months ago. The opposite is true. On the contrary, because of the inability of this government and the fact that it has slept, you will pay three or four times more than you would have to and than your neighbors will pay in Slovakia. [[Applause for Members YES]] This is the result of this government. The marketing of this government must also be admired by the teleshopping guru Horst Fuchs. And I apologize to Horst Fuchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u67	Thank you. And since there is no one entered into the general debate, no one has made a factual declaration either, this is the end of the general debate. And I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word? You're not interested. The rapporteur? [[Newsletter from: After...]] Okay. I hereby open a detailed debate and take turns with my colleague because I have a point there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u68	Beautiful afternoon, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members of Parliament. So at this point, the Vice-President has closed the general debate. We are in a detailed debate. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is in favour of the debate in detail. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u69	Thank you for the floor. I don't think Mr. Kubíček has to leave. [[is ready near the speaker's desk]] I would just like to sign up for the amendment, which is in the system under number 1257. This amendment specifies some of the sections that the Energy Regulatory Authority needs. The description of the changes and the justification is in this House document, I repeat, number 1257. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u70	Thank you, too. At this point, I'm going to ask if Vice-President Karel Havlíček wants to speak with priority rights? [[He prefers.]] When... So, at this point, Mr Roman Kubíček is duly enrolled in the detailed debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u71	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment that is deposited in the system as House document 1244. There is also an important justification for this amendment in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u72	Thank you, too. I can now see that the next person who is enrolled in the detailed debate is Mrs Marie Pošarová. I'll ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u73	Thank you. I would like to sign up for amendments 1218, 1220, 1221, 1222, 1223, 1224, 1225, 1227, 1228, 1229, 1230, 1231, 1232, 1233 and 1250 and 1251. Thank you. Otherwise, the explanatory statement is recorded in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u74	Thank you, ma'am. And now, Vice-President Karel Havlíček is duly entered into a detailed debate. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u75	Hello again. I would like to sign up for Amendments 1256, 1252 and 1253. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u76	Thank you, too. I'm going to ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate? [[Nobody.]] I'll ask if there's any interest from the plaintiff, Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade? It's not. Is the rapporteur interested? Not either. So, at this point, I am ending the detailed debate and I note that there is an agreement here by the Presidents of the Clubs that all the amendments that have been made are to be dealt with. Therefore, at this moment, I will interrupt the discussion of this House's press. And at the same time, there's an agreement that we're going to come back because we still have time to spend on excise duty. And at this point, I will again turn the proceedings over to Vice-President Karel Havlíček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-039-01-002-002.u77	For the purposes of Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: The third reading of the draft law immediately after reading the second, I hereby initiate this third reading of the proposal.
