ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u1	78. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended / House print 215/ - first reading We are in a general debate. In the context of the general debate, we have Members, Mrs Balaštíková, who I am asking for the floor, and I will ask everyone in the Chamber to keep their voice down, or take care of everything they need outside the Chamber of Commons. Thank you and you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u2	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to give an example of this law here, an example of the practice I have experienced myself. I was an alderman at the Regional Authority in Zlín, sitting here with my colleagues sitting there with me in the D.A., and I think they had the opportunity to monitor my work. When I got in, you have the opportunity to change people, of course, because some colleagues did - I didn't do it. I've always wanted an expert to sit in those places. I never, ever really cared what side they were voting for, what side they were nominated for, and all I cared about was whether they were an expert on the issue, because we were always connected by expertise, because an expert is interested in doing things right, is interested in obeying the law, and is interested in something from a professional point of view not going wrong. And even though they were voters of completely different political parties, we got along very well, because they knew that even though they had a boss in me who wanted results, but didn't want to manipulate anyone, he didn't want to tell anyone how it was going to be, and all he wanted was to do it by the law, to be professionally correct and not to be assaulted from any other party - because sometimes your decisions are, for example, against what the applicant's citizen thinks - so that we weren't assaulted, that we broke the law or anything else. I think it's also about the self-confidence of politics, it's about wanting to do it right, it doesn't need to be manipulated, and so it comes out with everyone who's an expert and therefore doesn't need any changes. That is why I am very sorry that some of the colleagues who are now defending this law have, in some ways, attacked us that there have been exchanges. And I know it's always been an exchange of expertise, not political. So I'm sorry there's all these political deputies, because they're the political tradesmen. And he may be a good person, he may be an expert, but if he's not an expert in the area where he's deputy, it's wrong - all the worse, then you're transferring it to lower levels of control. Because you need experts, every minister needs experts, because then the exits out - and no matter what resort it is, it can still be from that county resort - are actually bad, bad for the state, for the benefit of the citizens, and bad for the professionally. And I have always appreciated colleagues who shared the same opinion - and I think we had a coalition there that was not easy - but it was with some of my fellow Members who confessed the same beliefs that I did, that we had always agreed despite the fact that there was a tendency that they wanted to place their representatives there. Maybe they felt they'd be more loyal. I've always wanted loyalty to law enforcement, professional competence, that's what brought us together, and then we didn't care who we voted for in the election. And I wasn't afraid that they wouldn't be loyal, because I didn't need loyalty to myself, and I needed us to make the right choices by the law, and to do those things the way it's supposed to be. And I don't think that law applies. I think it's disappointing for those citizens, too, because please let us realize that citizens are always criticizing political newsrooms, and that's what they say that politics is wrong, and they're throwing us all into a common bag. And I would like to say that whoever has the expertise needs no loyal workers because he has experts there. I didn't change anyone on the edge either, I tried - and when we hired someone new, I didn't care at all what political affiliation is or what side it tends to be, I always wondered how professionally it was. I often had to defend myself to some others who just wanted to create a trade fair for their members, for their members, for their friends, and I think that it also earned me such an assessment that people were saying: Yes, she may have been insistent, she was tough, but she never wanted us to take any unusual steps and could stand up for us. And I'd like them to say this not only about some of the politicians, but about everyone, so that we can understand that we should talk about expertise, about these things, not about the political newsrooms. And that's just a little bit of a plug to think about whether or not this is the right solution. It's half-baked, it's not the intention that it was originally at the beginning of the law. And I can tell you that even as an MP, if I'm going to do something professional, and now you're going to run into a guy who's not an expert in the field, it's sad because what are you supposed to say to him? And I don't want to say that he's a bad person, he can be a very serious person who might be good in another area, but he just sits in some political place to stick something in there, and it's a problem for whoever comes in there to deal with something professionally. And every time you ask an expert to change his mind, I say one thing - he always has to kill an expert in himself first. And no professional public expert wants to make a fool of himself. Whoever's doing this is manipulated, and I have to say, it's not about the right decisions, it's about completely different, nothingy things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u3	Thank you, Madame. President Michálek has signed up with priority rights, while at the same time canceling Mrs Ožanová's apology. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Peštová, whom I listened carefully to. I am glad that it reminded our project Citizen's House or Open House. This is the project that we launched last parliamentary term when we were in opposition, and it was intended to serve that lobbyists who today are going around the galleys and not transparently trying to catch Members there to agree on something that they will be sending their comments in the context of the legislative process and therefore the relevant ministry will comment on them and so on. At the time we made it out of opposition, and we found, worldly wonder that the lobbyists didn't report much to us there and that they were actually afraid to apply in any way, probably because they would then be less successful in promoting their proposals to the then government, which, let's just say, loved the opposition. So much for the Civil House project. But I'm sure what you're saying is that we need to work with civil society. After all, we have respect for civil society in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. We have addressed representatives of civil society, we have also addressed the State Reconstruction initiative with which you cooperated during the last parliamentary term. These people have basically praised the bill, saying that the changes that are there are needed. And there are also a lot of younger experts who turn to us that they don't have a chance to succeed, even though they know modern trends, they know European legislation and so on, they could help the state, so today they don't have a chance to succeed in the state, because all the seats are occupied, there's tenure and so on. So these are the reasons the law has to deal with. [[13.10 hours]] The important thing is that, of course, we have to line up somewhere between the political leadership of the Ministry - a member of the government, a minister, and at the same time he should have his political team there, which helps him to manage, because, of course, it is not possible in one person. What happened in the last or previous term of office is that it went too far. It was said: political there will be only a minister or his cabinet, but within the structure of the ministry there will be no other person who is thus directly responsible to citizens, such as representatives of citizens, politicians who are supposed to manage it. That's how they have it in the UK, where they have ministers, sub-ministers, and so on, there's some structure. Political parties are raising talent, and it leads to the nomination of persons who are already known to the Ministry's management, and it works better overall. So we were looking for where to make that line, and we thought it was really right for the minister to have his tight team, because we have to be honest that the system was meant to be unrealistically and that it really led to an ugly phenomenon that he took on essentially political politics and made himself an expert deputy. Of course, this person may have expertise and so on, but in reality, it was happening that people with ties to political parties were being put there at the so-called apolitical place, which was supposed to be behind the line where only non-partisan officials were supposed to be, and nothing was solved. It's just that the system's been set up unrealistically. And I think that Mrs Peštová knows what I am talking about because she ran for YES in 2013 for the Chamber of Deputies, and then she succeeded at the Ministry of the Environment, which was led by her party colleague, 2014 was already an ANO representative. Then she ran for YES in the regional elections, then she ran for the Chamber of Deputies, so basically on the one hand, the apolitical, professional, impartial deputy under the Party Minister for YES, her party colleague, and at the same time she ran for YES in all the elected positions that we have here in this state, with the exception of the European Parliament, the President, the senator. Really, let's pour some pure wine, set that line right: from here it starts, here ends politicians, here start officials. They shouldn't be putting in their political colleagues here anymore, but it should be strictly official. And if that line is set right, it will also allow the Ministry's political governance, because in the end they are citizens to whom the minister is responsible as an elected representative, then the system can finally start to work better. The current setting is unrealistic and this has not worked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u5	Thank you. Mrs Peštová is already coming up with the facts. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u6	Of course, I must respond to my previous speaker, Mr Michálek. I'm glad you told me mine in quotes, the little political one, when I was sitting almost mostly in opposition. But since you mentioned it here, you could have mentioned my whole candle. Why are you just saying, Mr Member, through Mr President, that I was only a member of the YES movement, only a member of the YES movement. I didn't have any top functions in YES. You should know that, because the Service Act forbids it, I hope you've studied it, first of all. And then, if you want to call on my professional side here, you can read my dissertation here, my thesis. I didn't copy it, I actually wrote it, I graduated. That's one thing. But I'm more concerned about one thing. When you responded and responded to me, I expected you to comment on the legislative process. What I was saying here, as the pirát, was that they had to go through a proper legislative process, that they should not come into existence and that enough and traces were for those parliamentary proposals, and what do you do, Mr Michálek, through Mr President? You guys do the paquilas, too! You're ignoring the fact that this should go through the ordinary legislative process. When you mentioned who you were showing it all to, your great proposition, you forgot the Ministry, you didn't show it to them. You forgot where the state administration is, you didn't show it to them either, and I could name here who you didn't show it to. So I would quite like to hear you consult with the ministries, and what did the Gesture of this law, which is the Ministry of the Interior, say, and how did it proceed? First of all. I'm glad you're here, Mr. Ambassador, or maybe you're getting signals, but I'd like to hear it from you. And now that we're here to discuss this great law, where are the ministers of the ministries? [[The government bench is empty.]] Where's a minister who would comment on that? Thank you. And I'm asking for a break before any minister comes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u7	Thank you. I've noticed there's no minister here. I've let you finish, but at this point, we have to cancel the meeting until the Minister arrives. One minute is enough? [[The reaction from the diaper.]] I'm interrupting for two minutes until one of the ministers arrives. Thank you. [[Minister Kupka enters the hall.]] In the meantime, before I finished, the minister arrived. We're good to go. [[A round of applause from the YES and SPD benches.]] Your factual point, Madame, raised further factual points, namely Mrs Ožanová and subsequently Mr Králíček. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u8	Thank you. Mr President, my factual point will be directed not at my colleague Peštová, but at my colleague Michálek. You know, in his speech, I was intrigued by "young experts." I think that an expert is an expert regardless of age, and that therefore reeks of age discrimination. So my father, when he's an expert in his field and he's 85, he writes a professional publication, he wouldn't be an expert in the Pirate Party anymore? A specialist is a person who understands something, and no matter how old he is, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u9	Thank you. Another registered comment is Mr králíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u10	Mr President, I would also respond to my colleague, Michálek, by your means. Mr. colleague, since you're kicking our movement here, Mrs. Peštová, who worked as a member somewhere professional, let's divert it from constructive discussion to this. Let's talk about how the pirát choose professional people in Prague to city companies and various other functions. Let's talk about how Mr. Rakušan called off the police president. If you want this debate, I'm happy to sign up, and we can discuss it for another hour. Sweep before your doorstep!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u11	Thank you. There is one more factual point, namely, President Michálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just going to answer in a matter of fact. The Home Office wrote the proposal, so why are you asking us what the Home Office's position is? They wrote it. After all, you saw it from eKLEP that it was submitted, and ministers as representatives of ministries and their chief officials agreed on the government when they gave a positive opinion. Of course, we have put forward this proposal so that it can be approved in order to pay as soon as possible, because we need it to work effectively by the state administration in order to deliver our promises to the citizens in the elections. That's why we chose this path. And I think that if we proceed constructively, we can remove the proposal, we can continue with it, maybe we can improve it even further in the next legislative process, but the idea that at this point we would do so would not really be appropriate, so we would not have approved the service law until a few years later, and until then we would have overlooked the problems or, in some way, improvised them, would have been appropriate, so that is why we have acted exceptionally differently in this case. And I believe that when we meet here after a certain time, when it will be possible to evaluate the number of exceptions granted in terms of regulatory impact assessments, I believe and firmly hope that our balance sheet will be good and that we will contribute to improving the legislative process. After all, he was also Minister for Legislation Šalomoun, who, in several cases, pointed out to the ministries that they had serious shortcomings in the examples. The examples were stopped and repairs were made, even in very important matters. So there really is a big effort for legislative purity. In this case, we did it differently so that it could be timed and we were able to deliver the promises that we made to the citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have two factual ones, first Mrs Peštová, and then Mrs Ožanová will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u14	Of course, I must respond again to Mr Michálek, through Mr President. And that's exactly it: the Ministry has written, you say. The petitioners are Members, "we will tune in, we will improve, we will need." Who's we? The Home Office? Or we as Members, or who is it that we urgently need? That's one question, but what I was asking - I was saying, why aren't you calling on what you were the maker here, that the law or those laws must go the proper legislative way? If the Ministry of the Interior wrote, why didn't the Ministry of the Interior put it into eKLEP, why didn't there be a proper commentary procedure that takes 20 days if they didn't have an exception from the Minister of Law, which would shorten it to 10 or 15 days? Why didn't this process take place? Why was there no proper settlement of any comments made in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure? This just didn't happen, that's what I blame you for. You preach water and drink wine!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u15	Thank you, and the other person who is logged in with a priority, or with a factual point, is Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that you made a promise to the citizens that you would do this in time, but maybe I was the rapporteur of this press for another debate that preceded the negotiation of the Law on Graceful Summer, and there, in essence, we expressed the view that we agree that there is a need for change. No one said it wasn't meant to be, okay? So I'm just saying that there is no interest in discussing this law for several years, but really the appropriateness of electing a legislative process so that it becomes a reminder of this law, especially if we take into account, as I quoted in the news report, the problem that the Constitution allows, for example, a Deputy Prime Minister to represent a member of the committee, and you write in the explanatory statement that it will be some sort of director, it will be called differently and that it is okay? Well, it's just not for me. And it was these things that could have been removed in the legislative process. As for the fact that it was written by the Ministry of the Interior that it was okay: folks, I am the rapporteur for many prints, let us not forget that we recently had prints associated with digitization, and that there is a problem, it is moving away because there is simply a problem at the Ministry of the Interior, and the explanatory note contained in the assessment that we should look at the economic impact when the law was passed, which was two electoral periods ago - there were several economic variations. One House legislature stopped me and said that if a Member had submitted this, it would have returned the legislation to him, because it really was contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the House, and let us not forget, our Rules of Procedure is the law! So it would be good to take care of the legality of everyone, not just the Members, but also the Ministry. I have no guarantee that the law is well written.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u17	Thank you, Madame. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will now speak with priority rights. I merely recapitulate that Mrs Peštová is then duly applied for, and then Mr Philipp came forward and then Mrs Válková. Thank you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would also very much like to comment on the amendment to the Civil Service Act. I was gonna say I'm sorry that Marek Benda isn't here because -- but I see him, I'm really happy for that, because I'm definitely gonna want to answer some questions. First of all, I would like to respond to Mr. Michálek, who really surprised me with his speech. A person who has been working with the State Reconstruction for a long time will tell me here that this bill supports the State Reconstruction. Will you bring it to me in black and white that this bill, the amendment to the law, supports the reconstruction of the state? I'd just like to say that if you've been really, really, really putting yourself in my colleague Berenika Peštová's shoes, I really want to tell you that -- and what Mr králíček said -- that you should, when you say something, you should be careful that when you say something, you also have to do it. The Czech Pirate Party, which is represented in the leadership of the Karlovy Vary Region, so I could list here so many cases that are under their wing, whether they are non-discriminatory selection procedures entered directly, people in various commissions, placing people in different positions and so on, so I am really surprised that you will stand here and this is what you will say at the moment. I think that using this is transparent - what is being presented here at the moment - so first of all I would like to say that I personally went to the Ministry of the Interior in 2015 when we had to approve this law, and you know what was the reason for approving the amendment to the Civil Service Act, which had to be approved by the European Commission? It was the drawing of European funds. And if we were to propose this law - but a law that will fulfil the three things that my colleague Klára Dostálová has said here, and that is professionalisation, but above all depoliticization and stabilisation - we would not have received any funding in the context of drawing European funds if they were not the content of the amendment in 2015. Personally, I was also on the State Secretary's Selection Committee, and I have to say that I was perceiving myself at that moment, and I said, "Well, we have to adopt this law here at the moment, and since I am the former mayor and the former governor, I understand, of course, that there have been some procedures. First there was to be a depoliticisation of the state administration at the level of cities, municipalities and regions, which is why a law on officials was adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies, and then an amendment to the Service Act came. And I'd like to ask, because the way you see it now as a government coalition, it's the same thing on the outskirts, on the towns, on the municipalities. After all, ask a mayor if he has the opportunity to exchange a secretary at the municipality or the director of the county office. Well, he doesn't! That's exactly the same level. The mayor and the chieftain are also in position to lead the region, but the director is at the head of the regional office and all the officials are under his authority. There was an MP here today who said, "Well, the deputies on the edge, they're political. Yes, but the people elected in the elections, and then, when the constituencies are in place, the deputies from their leadership choose the political governor, the deputy general, the councillor, and so on, but I say and know a lot of my fellow chieftains, and I will not name them here who have dealt with the matter of the Regional Bureau Director. It's just practically irrevocable today that the governor, who came into the position of the governor, dealt with it by making an organizational structure and making himself the director of the Office's office because he knew that there was no way that he wasn't a means to dismiss the Director of the Regional Bureau. [[13.30 hours]] At this point, I'm opening up the question that if you want to do this at central level, so that you start talking about it under the Officials Act, because the same is true within cities, municipalities and regions. And I think that when you did it on the first floor of the Officials Act, on the second floor of the Civil Service Act, and I really heard it all the time in 2015 at meetings with the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec, if it doesn't happen, if there is no confirmation from the European Commission, we will be stopped from drawing European funds. And so I am asking - and I would like to answer this - if you have a positive opinion from the European Commission, if she has given you on this proposal, which is a Member who has not dealt with the standard way - I am surprised that... yes, any Member can submit a proposal, but at the same time the President of the Legislative Council of the Government, who is today the Minister of Legislation, I do not understand at all when he put into - because that is the standard way - when from 16 to 27 May he made a comment procedure within all departments, so why did he withdraw it, he did not wait for comments at all and on 18 May he submitted this law to the Government. I really think that this law should be subject to discussion. But most importantly, as we talk here many times about the threat of drawing funds, the National Recovery Plan, someone will answer me and give me the guarantee that we will not lose the funds from the National Recovery Plan by amending this law? Anybody want to guarantee that? Will anyone bring the paper that the law is within the three objectives? And again, I was at the Home Office in 2015. I know how difficult it was, how it was observed, and I also know when the previous government coalition came up with a change, so it was once again observed by the European Commission, it was not easy to change a small part and the condition was to depolitize. What was done at the level of cities, municipalities and regions was just missing the last step within the central authorities, which are ministries, and we proved this through the amendment of the service law in 2015. This allowed us to draw European funds in huge amounts of money. If I look at the current novel, I have no problem opening up a wider circle of people who will be accepted into those positions. There is no way that I have a problem with the one-wheel competition so that it is administratively lengthy. But I'm terribly upset that professional deputys will become section heads. That means those positions are going to double, and practically two people are going to do what one person is doing today, and that bothers me. At the same time, only the directors of the sections and people who are then at lower levels will be subordinate to the State Secretary. But again, the director is in charge of the regional office, and he's all under his authority. It was practically depoliticizing that the State Secretary was at the head of the department, and all of them are subordinate to that, all of them, including the vice-president, all of them, the State Secretary decided everything. That is why he was State Secretary for Civil Service, who is at the Ministry of the Interior, but he is subject to all state secretaries in all other departments. So that's the first thing that bothers me very much, and where I can really see that the depolitics are going to end and that practically the minister is going to come, he's going to bring political deputies, of course, and what the deputy was doing today, he's going to be the head of the section. The second, which is very annoying to me, is the introduction of a term of office, the five-year one. Once again, if we want to introduce this, let us also do so under the Officials Act. Why would they be... That is why I am opening the question and I would like to know your answer, because I keep telling you that the first step was the Act on Officials, where depoliticalization and stabilization and professionalization were done in cities, municipalities and regions. The last step that was missing was on the central authorities of the state administration. That's what we did, and now we're coming back. So if we want to go back, then we have to make an amendment to the Officials Act. There are a number of mayors, captains, people who are in charge of these cities, so I'm sure they'll say how hard it is if the chieftain or mayor comes along and says, "I'd like to make a tender for the head of the department for the construction office." But that's not in your jurisdiction, that's under the authority of the secretary or director of the county office, you can't enter into this at all, Mr. Mayor or Mr. Governor. In the lead - I say again, of course within the municipal law it is set that the mayor is the head of the municipal office. The reason is simple. It must have melted like this because there can't be a secretary in small villages. There is no advice in some smaller municipalities. That's why. So my question is: Will there be a reduction in the drawdown of European funds, the National Recovery Fund? Will we also deal with this at the level of cities, municipalities and regions? Why didn't it go through the process? Maybe I don't understand why it didn't wait until May 27th, so why the ministries couldn't comment on it. I think it would also be at least right that every resort would have the opportunity to comment on this proposal. Mr Michálek - even if he could not listen to me, therefore he left, through Madam President - said that the law was written by the Ministry of the Interior. But still, I think the resorts are presenting it to the MPs, and the resorts... Or, respectively, why do we have the Legislative Council of the Government? I mean, there's a lot of people's expertise, best expertise. I must say that when I came to the Government Legislative Council to defend a law, it is not easy to leave with a positive opinion from the Government Legislative Council. I must say that a number of ministers and deputy ministers go there several times to reach an agreement from them. We have also talked many times about the fact that the Legislative Council of the Government will effectively approve the law, and then we will come up with our amendments here, and it is a question of whether or not it should be able to express itself, because then we sometimes see what is approved here by some amendments. There is no way I can support this law at first reading. I think he really should be subject to a broad discussion. I can't imagine anyone from among the experts, or the way that has been done here - the reconstruction of the state or some of these organizations - could give a positive opinion. I can't even imagine. 'Cause it's the state secretaries who are really in charge of those ministries today. The State Secretary is subordinate to all the people in that ministry, to the vice-president, all of them. Practically who's there politically. Of course there's a minister, it's his cabinet, it's those people. They're the people who aren't under the Civil Service Act. But all the people who are under the Civil Service Act are subject to the main person in charge of the department, and that's the Secretary of State. So that's all on my side. I will certainly be happy to have some answers to my questions, and I certainly support my colleague Klára Dostálová's proposal, which clearly states that this should be discussed and that the law should be recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u19	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Your performance raised three factual points, at least at this time. The first is Mr. MP Žáček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u20	Thank you for the floor. I didn't press anything when I got back, so it was beeping.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u21	But you responded promptly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u22	I was shaking my head in dissent here. But since you've already challenged me, and since the technique has joined together, maybe I'll comment on one little thing to see that some things are pointless to discuss. The State Secretary is not in charge of the Ministry. The State Secretary only has personnel under him, or he is responsible for an independent solution to personnel matters. The Minister is in charge, and that is the main problem. [[13.40 hours]] So I would definitely object to what was said here by the Vice-President, by your way, that the Secretary of State would be the head of the Ministry, that is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u23	I thank you for the improvisation and with the fact that Minister Blažek is registered. He's not here, so I'll erase him. In fact, Mr Michálek, President, is also on the table. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad we're dealing with the technology of the legislative process. I can only ask one question about Mrs Ožanová, through you, Mr Vice-President. Could you please remind us how the amendment to the Civil Service Act was approved during the last term of office? As we sat on the Constitutional Legal Committee, and how did an eight-page fascicla land on the table sometime before reading the second reading with legislative amendments to the Civil Service Act, so it was done on the spot, and then it wasn't really possible to apply any amendments at all, so it wasn't possible to correct the errors that were there? We were at least solid enough to put it into the system, first reading is taking place, there is a debate on it, but it was not tabled as an amendment in a basically complex form in second reading, so that no one could actually respond to it at all. So let us remember how the debate on the Civil Service Act took place in the last parliamentary term, and in this respect, I think we have seen a slight improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u25	Thank you. Mrs Ožanová came forward with the facts and then she is signed up with Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I was surprised to hear the question from my colleagues when I didn't mention how it was or wasn't discussed last time, I didn't touch it once. I had just responded to the fact that Mr Michálek only considered young people as experts, and I avoided how it was or was not approved. All I'm saying is that you've put something in your programming statement that you're ignoring, and that's it. I'm really not going to be able to find out what happened in the last term, I didn't even comment on it, so I was very surprised by this reference. Sorry, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, try to point him towards those who have spoken to him, but I have not spoken to this here. It would be good to listen to the whole debate and how this law has been discussed in the past, I have not spoken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u27	Thank you. Another one with Mrs Peštová in fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u28	I am glad that Mr Michálek, through Mr President, is smiling at me: 2018, it was a government proposal, we will agree definitely together, so it went through a legislative process, then it got into the Chamber of Deputies and here are the amendments, the creativity of Members. Isn't that right, Congressman, through the President? But here's something else we're talking about. Here we are talking about the fact that you said - and here it is recorded - that this is the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior that put it in the interreort, in quotation marks it pushed into the eKLEP, the same day it downloaded, instead it found another way and did not go through a proper legislative process. And that's what I was asking you here, or what I was pointing out was that you were the ones who said you weren't doing this shit anymore! Not anymore, we'll go the right way. And you've made it worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u29	Thank you, ma'am. Another one with the facts is Minister Blažek. [[Minister Blažek is not present.]] I don't know who's still squeezing Mr. Blažek around? You're squeezing him? [[Ambassador Benda sits in place of Minister Blazek.]] [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] Is that you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u30	Well, I certainly hope that I'm already duly logged in to a factual remark, because I was just checking in on why Blažek is logged in, so I realized that there's a log-in at that point, and I'm logged in on my desk, and when I press... I don't know if it's a violation of the Constitution, I hope not, if I don't vote, when I press the red button in front of me, when I want to sign in, Minister Blažek applies. But now I'm properly logged in, I hope?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u31	You're not, but talk to me. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] Blažek again... [[Glee in the hall.]] Well, Mr Blažek is still here, but you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u32	If the President gives me the floor... [[But you have the floor as if it were Mr Blazek.]] After this comic entry, maybe we could check out, but I don't think that's necessary for those two. I just wanted to respond to my colleague Vildumetzová. According to the information I have from the Supreme Secretary of State, the situation today is that it is enough to implement EU recommendations on the principle of service relations. Since 2020, there is no need for consultation and opinion by the European Commission on how the state service is adapted to us, so only to be explained. I'm not going back to the way things were discussed here in the past, but I have to say that when you started pulling as opposition, what anyone said here, I quickly went through what I said four years ago, and in addition to criticizing very strongly that you brought all the change against the government proposal to the table, really up to here on the table in the House, all I fought for was that you wanted to call off state secretaries without any - or supreme state officials - without any control. You will notice that we do not put the law into it, because we are really leaving a separate structure of the Service Office and a separate political leadership of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u33	Thank you. You're not gonna believe this, you jumped out here with a point of fact, so of course I'm gonna cancel it. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] And now, with Mrs Válková's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u34	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, oddly enough, Válková is factual and it's not anyone else, so it works, it's our log-in device. She has said it here, Mrs Peštová, in a more brutal way by you, but I would also like to make it clear, because I have been provoked by Mr Michálek's remark, by your means, because I was a member of the constitutionally-legal committee, and I think that what cannot be compared is the nature of the change. And it sounds here in all the speeches of opposition MPs and MPs. This is about political reform, which is almost equal to such a revolution. I understand it as Minister of Justice, a year and a half you have an overview of exactly those people you need to get rid of, and you can't get rid of them, and those you would marry, and you can't marry them. So I understand that in that way - and I say this openly and politically - professionally. I don't think the Secretary of State wants to take part in professional processes just because he has that very important personnel card in his hands. So it affects the operation of the resort, in which I will also agree with Minister Blažek, through you, Mr Vice-President, and I think that we can also make some compromises in this respect. But what you have put forward without a proper legislative hearing is indeed a major reform that will have consequences and side-negative effects that we have drawn attention to here. [[13.50 hours]] I still have a performance, but I'm only brief on the factual point right now, and I think it would be good to take this into account and make a decision on some kind of agreement, if we really want to force this kind of reform... [[Madam, your time is up!]] Okay, thank you... promote or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u35	Thank you. Another one, with fact, is Mr Michálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember what happened when the bill was tabled. At that time, under the rule of the YES movement, "The European Commission is concerned about the independence of the Czech state of service," writes iRozlas.cz an article from the time of 27 February 2019: "The European Commission is concerned about the independence of the Czech state service, the government has not convinced it about the Service Act." At that time, the European Commission had indeed raised reservations. If today there were reservations about this proposal, which is, however, standard in European countries, that political levels and official levels are separated, that they are a term of office, that is a standard mechanism. What you wanted to do was really introduce speedy firings, so-called, and there the European Commission said that it did not like it. And when you prepared it and brought it to the constitutionally-legal committee, it was not the creativity of Members, as Mrs Peštová said, it was that it was written by a ministry, perhaps the Ministry of Regional Development, then under Mrs Dostálová, and it came here except for a committee where nothing could be done about it. To those young experts. I didn't distribute the experts on young, old, whatever, I just said that I was approached by young experts, in short, younger people aged 35, 45 and so on who complained that the whole system was too concrete and kept people in those places disproportionately long without the possibility of any competition. That's the competitive element we're introducing into the system. I would very much hate for this term to be used to increase tensions between generations in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u37	Thank you, Mr President, and another with fact is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u38	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Marek Benda, for what he's quoted here. I would like to ask him if he could send it to me, I would like to take a look at it - what he got from the Secretary of State, because at this point, I perceive that he was coming back before 2015, because in 2014 they were also political Deputys, they were all political, and actually by adopting the Civil Service Act, of course, on the basis of the European Commission's condition, that there must be a depoliticisation of the state administration, so there was actually a recompetitive of all these Deputys. That meant that the deputy applied for the tender, and anyone else could apply. So I don't know if it was in the first round, how, if I still remember it well, but the point is that it really doesn't make sense to me, that since the previous government came up with some of the changes that Klára Dostálová was talking about, and they came up that it would be two-wheeled, and it was under the scrutiny of the European Commission, so now it wouldn't be under the scrutiny of the European Commission? We're practically not gonna do what they wanted. I don't want to argue, but I'm sure I'd like to take a look at it. And a reaction to Mr. Žáček. dneska - yes, you say that the Secretary of State decides on staff, but when the Minister says today that he agrees to be, if necessary - he will definitely tell the Deputy Minister that he has fulfilled the criteria, it is always up to the Secretary of State. He's the main person. If the Secretary of State says that this person won't be a deputy, that this person won't be a director, then only the Secretary of State has the authority. He decides practically everything within the resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u39	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. In fact, Mrs Ožanová is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u40	Thank you, Mr President. You know, no one has ever, in essence, expressed their views on this bill, because let us remember, this bill was sent to Members on 13. 5. that's a few days back, 18. 5. The Government has already issued a favourable opinion and 1. 6. is in plenary. In essence, it is such a speed when professional circles and anyone else could not even comment on it. I'll just allow myself to recapitulate one sentence that I've already said today. As rapporteur, I would like to point out that the need for gradual and prudent tender procedures is only in the explanatory report, but is not included in the draft law. I just want to say that it was so surprising for me. I merely stated it as the fact that something is mentioned in the explanatory report, it is not in the proposal. And I believe that if we really have in the constitution who represents whom at the plenary session or during the parliamentary committees, that this draft law should reflect this, and I think that is precisely one of the flaws that would manifest itself in the legislative round. Furthermore, I have already said today to answer Mr Michálek that I do not mind when the proposals are tabled by Members, but it is wrong to put it in your programming statement that you will not do so and do so. It is not the procedure itself that gives it to the MP, but that you declare something else and do something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Another registered comment is Mr. Žáček, unless someone put his name on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u42	Yes, thank you, now I'm the one who pressed it, I admit it. I'd just like to clarify. In essence, the Vice-President has now confirmed what I said, so I prefer to quote it to be clear under the law: "The State Secretary directs activities relating to the provision of services, the administration of service relations and the remuneration of civil servants and the head of the service office subordinate to the Ministry. The Secretary of State shall also carry out tasks relating to the employment relationship of staff in the administrative office.'; The Ministry runs the minister, it's his constitutional duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u43	Thank you. In fact, we are reporting - and that is not possible - Minister Válek! [[Minister Válek is showing off to the House. Fun in the hall.]] Well, I'm sorry, it's you... [[Let's hear it.]] Well, that's the first time today. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u44	I am sorry, Mr President, and I do not deny, it was a certain test of the system's functionality and the system, if we are good at using it, works well. Never mind, even an old man my age knows how to use it well. However, I would not want to interfere with the debate, which is the debate of experts, I am not an expert in this regard. However, regional hygiene heads are civil servants and all other regional hygiene employees are not. There's a huge problem with that in practice. It's not just the employees of the health department who complain about it, but my predecessor at the Ministry of Health complained about it. The service law, which was supposed to select really top specialists in the health care sector, actually led to five Deputys being replaced there in a year. I could name them, they were all professors, they're all done. I don't know if it's right or wrong, but I'd like to talk about making the system work better, and I'm really looking forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u45	Thank you very much, and with a point of fact, it is the last one today, because we are finished in two minutes, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to hear from Mr Žáček, through Mr President. I still don't know. I don't think you understand. The Civil Service Act applies to civil servants, or to those established under the Service Office. The novel you're coming up with, the deputies who are under the Civil Service Act today, we're taking them out of it, and those deputies aren't gonna be under the Civil Service Act. That means those Deputys won't be subordinate to the State Secretary. Yes, of course, they'll be subordinate to the Minister, I understand that from one side, but the position, the deputy professor, who was the deputy professor today, is going to be the head of the section chief, and we're going to make one deputy deputy, so we're going to make two of them, okay? [[14.00 hours]] But what's still there is that the chief executives are going to be very responsible, and I don't think that's good either. I understand everyone. If I was in the position of minister, and I was in the position of captain, I didn't like it either, that I had to work with this county director, this department head. I understand that, but if we want there to be expertise in order for there to be professionalism, then the system has to be set up in some way, and that is why the European Commission obviously wanted us to depolitize and be qualified there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-005-078.u47	Thank you, and since we are short of the last minute, I will use it for apologies, Mrs Zajíčková between 13:30 and 14:00 and Vice-President Skopeček from 13:00 to the end of the day for working reasons, it was also for work reasons with Mrs Zajíčková. And only technical information. I am interrupting this 25th meeting by Thursday at 9 pm and reminding the members of the Organizing Committee that the 13th meeting of the Organising Committee will begin in approximately five minutes in room 106. Thank you.
