ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-001-103.u1	103. Government bill amending Act No. 452/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications and on the Amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, as amended /German press 161/ - Third reading I ask that Minister Šalomoun take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff for the apologized Minister Síkela - I see that this is already happening - as well as the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which is Mr Michael Rataj. [[9.10 hours]] The proposal for rejection and amendments were not tabled at second reading. I'm asking the plaintiff, Mr. Minister, if he's interested in speaking? She is interested in speaking before the debate is opened, so I ask my colleague and colleagues once again to calm down. Move your conversations into the foyer, it really is too high a level of noise to listen to the plaintiff. Once again, I am asking - and I may have to approach the fact that I will say by name who, in the right part of the spectrum, in the right part of the hall some are not aware that they are being asked for peace. Thank you very much. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-001-103.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind myself briefly of what this draft law on designations of origin and geographical indications is about. It is one of the kinds of intellectual property that is provided at several levels, both at national level, when it then applies on the territory of our State, this legal protection is provided according to the law that we are proposing to amend today. Then there is the protection of the Union, which is somewhat narrower because it usually concerns agricultural products, often used in the labelling of spirits and wine. That is where this protection is, according to the regulation of the European Union, and it applies, of course, in the territory of the Member States. Then there is international legal protection, which is implemented by the Lisbon Convention and now also by the so-called Geneva Act, which is a major revision of this Convention, and then, of course, it is implemented in the Member States that signed this Convention, which are states - because the European Union is a member and has signed this Convention - in the territories of the EU Member States and then there are some others like North Korea and Laos. What you should know about the fact that there was an internal competence dispute in 2017 as to how the assessment of intellectual property aspects should be conducted, whether or not it is part of trade policy, the European Court of Justice said: Yes, it is part of trade policy. This means that this is a Union matter and not a Member State matter entirely. The idea applied to this case then means that there can be no parallel protection of the Union and national protection. In principle, this amendment responds to this, which says that national protection will cease to be provided if Union protection exists, and transitional provisions are very important when, by 14 September, rights holders who have only been granted national protection need, in principle, to decide whether they want to redirect this protection to the protection of the Union, possibly to the international one. So that's what this legislation is about. I believe that it is not at all a political collision, so I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-001-103.u3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I am opening up a debate on this point where no one applies. If no one is still reporting for the debate, then I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? I assume the appellant is not interested, but is the rapporteur interested in the final word? Let me ask you, is Mr. Smetana interested in speaking? He doesn't. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-001-103.u4	Good morning, honourable members of the government, honored colleagues, honored colleagues. In short, I would sum up the whole procedure for the adoption or negotiation of a government bill amending Act No. 452/2001 Coll. The Guarantee Economic Committee discussed the draft law on 14 April 2022 and issued a binding opinion recommending the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. The Agricultural Committee discussed the draft law on 6 May, issued the same recommendation, i.e. approve. The bill went through the second reading, general and further detailed debate, on 1 June at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and no amendments were tabled on the bill. The guarantee committee did not discuss the proposal further. Since there are no amendments, the vote on the law as a whole can be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-001-103.u5	Thank you, too. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 452/2001 Coll., on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications and on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, as amended, pursuant to the House press 161, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 52, 162 present, for 156, against none. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank both the petitioner and the rapporteur and conclude on this point. Now I'm going to read some more apologies. Mr Roman Bělor apologizes between 9:00 and 9:30 for business reasons, and Minister Michal Šalomoun apologises from 9:30 to the end of the day for business reasons. Now I'm opening up a point of discussion.
