ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 / House print 144/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur of the Budget Committee, Mr Josef Bernard, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments have been delivered to you as House Press 144/3 and the draft accompanying resolutions have been delivered to you as House Press 144/4. I would remind you that the examination of the draft State Budget Act is governed by Sections 101 to 106 of our Rules of Procedure. The draft law shall not be directed to the guarantee committee for discussion. Before I open the debate, I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Josef Bernard, to present a set of amendments, accompanying resolutions and to make a proposal for a voting procedure. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Today we will proceed in accordance with Sections 101 to 106 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that the Committee on Budgets is not a guarantee. I will therefore not give my opinion or the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. So I will go straight to the procedure that I will propose that you know before you make technical amendments. Firstly, we will vote on the correction of legislative technical, grammatical, written or printing errors if they are read today. Secondly, we will vote on the Committee's proposals for amendments to the figures, as amended by the amendments approved in Annex 2A, in parts or individually, unless there are objections. You all have the groundwork at your disposal. [[9.10 hours]] Thirdly, we will vote on the proposals from the second reading debate individually, as they have been said. You have them all in writing again on the bench materials, Annex 2B. Fourthly, we will vote on the bill as a whole. Fifthly, we will then vote on the proposals for accompanying resolutions, and that will be according to the press 144/4. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, rapporteur. I now have Mr. Tomio Okamura's application here. Do I ask whether he wants to speak before the debate is opened or in the debate? [[Mr Okamura's statement off the microphone.]] Okay, then I'll open the debate. Mr President, you are the first to be logged in with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, today we will be voting here in the House on the final government draft state budget for this year. The SPD will not support the state budget, as Petr Fiala's government does not deal with the price increase, and instead of cutting money off for inadaptable, political nonprofits, solar barons, it is cutting money off for decent and working citizens. The SPD movement supports decent citizens, and we will not give in. It is necessary for me to stress here that Petr Fiala's government in this year's budget reduces support for disabled citizens, reduces support for single parents, reduces support for pensioners and reduces support for students. The SPD doesn't agree with that. Moreover, the government brings a reduction in the level of health care, a low assessment of the necessary professions, such as firefighters, police officers, soldiers, non-teaching workers, and so on. At the same time, this government, Petr Fiala, proposed by the state budget, is inflationary and anti-growth, because it limits investment. I'd like to ask you for some peace. Madam Vice-President? Well, obviously, all I had to do was challenge me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u5	Please continue, you've arranged for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u6	Yes. At the same time, Petr Fiala's government from the ODS still doesn't come... [[He turns to the rapporteur's table, where Members are having a loud talk.]] Can you just relax a little bit, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u7	Gentlemen, please, at the rapporteur's table, give the chairman some room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u8	At the same time, Petr Fiala's government from the ODS is still not taking measures to help people and companies affected by rising energy and fuel prices, such as Poland, Hungary and Slovakia, temporarily reducing taxes on basic food and energy, setting maximum fuel or energy prices, temporarily freezing interest rates on mortgages and so on. The members of the SPD have therefore prepared dozens of amendments, namely 21, in transfers of individual chapters with a total volume of almost CZK 60 billion. We certainly do not want to take money from our decent and working citizens, who are in our first place. In the context of the state budget, I must also say that at this very moment we do not know how Petr Fiala's government will decide in the next few days how many billions it wants to export weapons to Ukraine, how much it will cost to move troops, which the government will decide how many Ukrajinec will come to us and draw not only state support but also health insurance. All of this will be decided with the full responsibility of Petr Fiala's government regardless of the budget agreed today. From the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian war conflict in the Czech Republic to date, the estimated 150,000 refugees from Ukraine are estimated and the number continues to rise. The SPD movement supports material and humanitarian aid to Ukrainian refugees for the necessary time. For the necessary time. At the same time, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that we are recording a large number of reports from our citizens who are concerned about the sustainability of our health system, the situation on the labour market, security, and our citizens are also worried about increasing energy, fuel, food and housing. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement still lacks information about the plan in which the government wants to address these key areas in a specific way so that social reconciliation in our Republic is not disrupted. Moreover, last month the government agreed to cut CZK 14 billion for health insurance companies, which will make the availability of healthcare worse in view of the current situation. The SPD doesn't agree with that. The government should cut to the maximum cost, but it didn't. And not only that, the government is incredibly wasting public money. According to the Spokesperson of the Ministry of Health Ondřej Jakob, the state only gives CZK 750 million per month for substances from Pfizer, but the interest in vaccination is rapidly decreasing and a number of vaccines are being disposed of. According to information from Hospodářské noviny, the state had vaccines disposed of for approximately CZK 200 to 250 million, i.e. for a quarter of a billion crowns. That's money that we could certainly use other than to put it behind vaccines that are thrown into the canal. According to Hospodářské noviny information, it is not even possible to send unnecessary vaccines to other countries, because they are not interested. The state destroys vaccines because almost nobody wants them, and of course they have an expiration period. Between the pharmaceutical company Pfizer and the Czech Republic, deliveries of vaccines are contracted by the end of 2023. In this way, funds are wasted and the Ministry of Health, controlled by Vlastimil Válek z TOP 09, in this case does not take care of proper economics as required by the law. The situation around Novavax is also alarming. The government ordered 772,000 new vaccines of this type. In the two-dose schedule, it is a vaccine for 386,000 people. A vaccine that was supposed to convince the rejecters, but almost no one is interested. At the end of February, only 8,000 people registered for a vaccination dose from Novavax. Misordering vaccines is just a demonstration of government wasted money, specifically what happens to the Minister of Health of the TOP 09 Vlastimil Válek. Another example pointed out by economist Vladimír Pikora, for example, is subsidies, which in practice usually means that taxpayers' money and those who are successful and effective will be taken and made ineffective. Here, however, I must state an exception, such as our farmers, who would make a living without subsidies, but would not be allowed to liquidate their competition from the West and Poland, where farmers there receive high subsidies. As a football and hockey lover, it is said to me with a heavy heart, but the example of wasted money is a way of using the subsidy for the soccer association of the Czech Republic, where the management of the association flew private flights. A half-billion-dollar grant should be used to promote sport, which is clearly a good thing. To sum it up, for subsidies that the government throws out the inefficient window, Hašk's modified quote from Švejk pays: This is what we do when others subsidize us. [[9.20 hours]] Once again, it is confirmed that the government is unable to address rising inflation and draconianly rising fuel prices, as well as increasing food and housing prices for our citizens and businesses. The Czech Purple Government, as the only country within the V4, has not yet introduced or implemented any general functional plan to reduce energy, food, housing or fuel prices for citizens. For the SPD movement, I will add that we also reject the unrealistic Green Deal plan, the so-called Green Deal, advocated by the European Union, which is one of the fundamental reasons why energy is increasing here. In our opinion, hundreds of billions of dollars must now be devoted to strengthening our energy self-sufficiency and security. The government does not deal functionally with fuel increases for citizens. The government's proposed abolition of road taxes or incorporation of biocomponents into fuels will not make a significant discount. I consider this government proposal to be a failure of the government, and in a short time, everyone will see it. The removal of the incorporation of biocomponents into fuels will bring a discount of the circus on the average of the crown, 1 crown per liter of fuel. The proposed abolition of road tax does not concern ordinary private citizens and families. This means that the government's proposals to lower fuel prices at yesterday's press conference were a mockery to citizens. It was a demonstration that Petr Fiala's government did not understand the gravity of the situation at all. I'm making it clear here that if the ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates can't solve expensive energy, expensive fuel, expensive basic food and expensive housing, then give demise. We have almost six months after the election. For almost six months, your government five-wheelers have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies. It's time to admit that Prime Minister Petr Fiala just doesn't have the executive skills. He's not a crisis manager. Everyone sees it, we all see it, because governments in Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, are already dealing with this situation. A long time ago, the solution in these countries began to work. Slovak households will receive electricity until the end of 2024 at the price at which they are taking it now. The Slovak Government announced this in February. Slovak families should thus save a total of about a billion euros on electricity accounts until 2024, a circus of 25 billion crowns, which the Slovak government will save Slovak wallets, Slovak citizens. Will Petr Fiala's government finally do something positive for our citizens? Again, if Petr Fiala's government can't solve expensive fuel and energy, then resign. You're also free of charge, literally. In Poland, for example, they reduced the VAT on fuel from 23 to 8 percent at the beginning of February, which is why Czech citizens go to Poland to refuel. Hungary has set the maximum possible fuel price at approximately CZK 33 per litre. Petr Fiala's government does nothing for Czech citizens. You are sucking out the wallets of Czech citizens who pay overpriced bills, overpriced fuel, while in the surrounding countries everyone is already dealing with the situation and they are already making these key commodities cheaper for all citizens and companies. That means all 10 million people in our republic are paying attention to your incompetence or your dislike to deal with it. You are not a government for citizens of the Czech Republic, for ordinary people. You may be an elite government, but that is not most citizens of the Czech Republic. This means, just to remind you that fuel prices have so far risen as a result of trade speculation only for the last week to CZK 50 per litre from the previous 35 crowns, and you are not even dealing with it. Your government doesn't have time for our citizens. You've had a majority here in the House for six months now, and it's not true if someone here says your government was appointed in December. That is true, but you could have already put your proposals in the House by the MP's proposal, and in December we could have already spoken them out here. The problem is that the members of the government coalition, the 108, have nothing prepared, so they didn't even have anything to suggest because you lied to the public last year in the campaign, when you said here for a year that you were ready to rule both programming and personnel. And now people see it with their own eyes. Polák have cheaper petrol, Maďar have cheaper petrol, they have cheaper basic food because the government has stepped up to lower VAT. The Slovak Government has helped citizens across the board! You didn't design a single dimensional solution, nothing, zero. And people also say that citizens are being bullied when they gas up in Poland, if they didn't fill up their power, by customs officials who fall under the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Those customs officers aren't responsible, they're under service law, it's government politicians. The price of gas on the stock exchange exceeded 200 euros per megawatt hour last week. A year ago, a total of 17 euros cost one megawatt hour. The current coalition government of ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN lately, only now, begins - of course only verbally - to talk about the need for changes in the energy concept. I am telling you that it is very lucky that citizens are very lucky that it is only mild winter and that citizens in family houses and villages still have the opportunity to heat solid fuel stoves. They're very lucky because there's such an incompetent government that if it wasn't for a mild winter, a number of citizens are in a desperate situation because they won't even have the power to flood properly, a number of families. That's the worst government since 1989, and it's been written to me by a huge number of people. You can also look at my social networks, followed by about 300,000 citizens of the Czech Republic only on Facebook. They've had enough of this government of yours, because income remains the same, but spending is increasing, and you're doing absolutely nothing for Czech citizens, nothing. And whatever you do, of course, will be good again and again, as is the rule here, thanks to the pressure of the SPD that we will finally push you into this. But the fact that you are free of charge because in February the surrounding countries and the V4 have relieved citizens and our citizens must pay everything dearly because you have not offered them anything. Of course, everyone can see that now. You yourself added three extra ministers, instead of fifteen ministers, there are 18 ministers, because you are a five-calice, and there were few corsets. Chapter of the Office of the Government - because we're talking about the state budget - your proposal is one of the few chapters where you raise because you need almost a hundred more people on the apparatus for three new ministers. You need tens of millions of extra crowns a year for them. You lied last year - I believe it was in November or December - that the three ministers will have no extra costs. We've all heard it in the media. You're lying to yourself, and you're already getting caught up in your own lies. We all heard it in the media when you said the three new ministers - it's Mrs Langšádlová, the one minister from TOP 09, then it's Mr Šalomoun, that's the pirát, the Minister for Legislation, then the third one is Minister Bek, that's the STAN movement, the Minister for European Affairs. Three new posts, three new ministers. You lied publicly to people and the media, and now you're increasing tens of millions of extra crowns in the budget chapter to their apparatus. Probably for different quotes worthy of political collaborators. And not just for them, it's an increase. So you have for yourselves, you've added yourself, you're grunting loudly at the cornet, you're sucking full sips, but for citizens, for citizens of the Czech Republic, you have no proposal to relieve their wallets. [[9.30 hours]] Of course, in the context of the SPD's expensive energy, it also clearly rejects the SPD, we repeatedly call on you to do so, the government, not only to reject the Green Deal of the European Union. We simply have to ensure our own energy security and self-sufficiency. But it is also necessary to reject clearly, and we clearly reject in the SPD, the emission allowance trading system promoted in the European Union, which pushes energy prices up. The Czech Republic must withdraw from energy trading at the Leipzig Energy Exchange. It has no logic, and it is because of you, the government, but also because of the previous government, that we produce cheap energy here, then it will cost us abroad, and then Czech citizens are buying back the originally cheap energy produced in the Czech Republic. Who's ever seen this monster system? And people can't do it. That's the problem, people don't have the money anymore. And the SPD is here for decent people, for decent people, for retired people, for working citizens. We're not here for some inadaptable people who are yawning right now because you guys are still valorizing their dosages. So, if I sum it up again - and I have to repeat it again - for the third time I suspect here in my speech - it is almost half a year after the election, and the government of Petr Fiala has not done anything at all for the citizens to reduce energy, food, or improve the availability of housing. We also bring specific proposals in the framework of our amendments, which I will get to in a moment, and I wonder if your government will vote in favour of this, because if you are incompetent, you reject our proposals, you do not propose anything, so we will re-set you a mirror today during the vote, your government five-police - ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates - who are destroying the wallets of Czech citizens. The government of Petr Fiala clearly did not realize what is happening here, how serious the problem of increasing fuel, energy, housing and food prices for citizens is, how fatally this affects most citizens of the Czech Republic. You guys are like Mars, you live in your fancy government bubble, and you don't know how ordinary people live. I ask - did the government's five-calice ODS, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates do anything for our citizens in almost six months that you have most of here? The answer is nothing. Nothing! Here no surface solutions, no surface design for improving the standard of living of Czech citizens you have not submitted. I'm saying again, I've never seen this place before. I haven't been in politics that long, but I've been here for a few years. I have never experienced such a horrible government, which, even after half a year, the majority of the government is unable to enforce even one general proposal that would fundamentally improve the standard of living of Czech citizens. Before the elections, the parties to this government coalition - ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN - repeatedly claimed that they were ready for government. It is confirmed that these were only false promises to voters. We call, on behalf of the SPD, on behalf of the current government, on behalf of the SPD, on behalf of the SPD, on behalf of the SPD, on behalf of the SPD, I call on the current government to begin to address these things that burn our citizens at last. It is the duty of government to citizens. The government of the Czech Republic has regulatory instruments similar to Poland or Hungary, but also Slovakia, but it does not. The government isn't doing it! The government of Petr Fiala from ODS is unable to control the state and will only be dragged into a sequence of events to which it reacts lately, badly or at all. And that's why I repeat, you should resign, that's enough. People get into huge social problems, people don't have money anymore. He writes me a huge number of desperate voters, and I think that's really enough. Admit that you don't have anything prepared and put it down because then the Czech Republic won't pay, because when people are in executions, debt traps, they won't have anything to do with basic needs, it'll be too late. And there's a lot of people out there. But back to the state budget as a whole. As my speech also shows, there is a need to dig up the budget and the system of drawing public money from the ground up. There is a need to change the grant philosophy, which is now literally economically perverse, because in the name of exhaustion of EU subsidies, the state subsidizes every stupidity without thinking about whether or not it is necessary and also that, in fact, we are paying it largely in the end from our money and that nothing, no crown, nor from Brussels, is free. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in me having hours here - and believe me, the problems that have already been cut by this government, not only as far as this draft budget is concerned, but because of the lack of doing anything, or when it does something wrong, there is so much that I could speak here for more than six hours since I spoke the last time - and I know that I would like to have the democratic leadership of the Chamber of Deputies here, of course, in quotes, jumping into conversation again, it would interrupt me that I am not speaking to the point that it is uncomfortable that you have to listen to it. You'd like us to be on some strings as opposition, and all you can do is lead us or silence us. But we will not be silenced in the SPD, and neither will our voters. I will fight for the SPD until my last breath for our half a million voters, over half a million voters who voted for us. I will fight and fight to the end for them to have better lives, to have more money, security and justice, citizens of the Czech Republic, our voters. And you're welcome to stand on your head. I know that the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, has also started to use the subterfuge arguments, started to dirty the SPD, said it was misinformation or something. So when does the Home Secretary finally explain who sponsored their Pirates-STAN campaign? To this day he hasn't said, it's six months after the election, who are the end owners of companies that sponsored the election campaign of pirates and STAN. Is that the Home Secretary? He hasn't said it yet. We're still waiting for it. That's completely insane! And this guy here says with the others, he's labeling other people here. I mean, he should have done it a long time ago. And now I will make a brief statement on our amendments. Of course, our Members have already spoken about this in detail and otherwise in the past. The SPD's movement proposes in several amendments to reduce the contributions to the European Union, substantially reducing the contributions to the European Union. You raise them, we lower them, and I'll tell you why. Because, for example, our Member, Karla Maříková, of the SPD, proposes to reduce money to the European Union and instead to support Czech health care, where you collect 14 billion and make health care worse in the Czech Republic. The government is making access to health care worse in the Czech Republic. You know that I pointed this out a few weeks ago, and now, in connection with the refugee wave from Ukraine, this is more than an actual topic, keeping the availability of health care in the Czech Republic and for citizens of the Czech Republic. And you're reducing. We want to raise it. If only we could keep it down, but you want to cut it down, so we have the exact opposite proposal. You're cutting down, and we're calling it back. We also propose to support firefighters and police officers. That's our proposal. We propose to support firefighters and policemen, whom your government, the government of Petr Fiala, has literally stolen the promised money since this year. The SPD is firmly behind firefighters, police, we support soldiers, we support other necessary professions. It's completely forgotten here - I've already talked about it - about unedagogical workers who work in schools. Yes, the teachers got extra, we voted for it, of course, but what about the janitors, the cleaners, the cooks? And there's a lot of these professions, and we want those people to have decent lives. And I think there is no need to throw money into the European Union now. On the contrary, the European Union is making Green Deal's lives more expensive here, so you're putting money in it instead of helping Czech citizens. [[9.40 hours]] So as far as the support of policemen, firefighters is concerned, this is what our MP Radek Koten and Karla Maříková, SPD MP, are proposing. Long-term focus is on this issue and we support together firefighters, policemen and other professions that we say are involved in. On the contrary, the government does not support them. The government doesn't support them, the SPD supports them. So here we're proposing the amendments, we've worked hard to get a vote on this, of course. Furthermore, the SPD - we really do have these proposals, as I said, quite a lot, but we also propose, and I say again, we reduce the European Union's money - we propose more than 30 billion crowns to ease the levy on the European Union, and by the way we propose support for Czech farmers, namely pigs farmers, because, as we know, food is expensive - Čech like to eat pork, we are not self-sufficient in it, yes - so we, one of our changers, our MP Oldřich Černý z SPD very well - some of them may be laughable, I can imagine, some of the government - but we propose, yes, we propose an increase in the support of pig farmers through the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund, but also other producers of Czech food, because it is necessary to lower these basic commodities, which clearly include pork in the Czech Republic. Yes, with regard to the reduction of money into the European Union, we want to increase expenditure to address crisis situations and civil protection of the population, and it is also a topic now, so our Member Vladimír Zlínský from the SPD has a nice changer, so that is also correct. We have other amendments here, for example, our SPD Member Marie Pošarová proposes, and this is very important - the government does not care, of course, Petr Fiala's government, it is a buzzkill - so she proposes that we increase the support of the State Investment Support Fund by 1 billion to support loans to spouses and families for the acquisition or reconstruction of housing. That's important, because housing is getting awfully expensive. You're not even able to put down mortgage rates, like the Maďar did, so again it's not a suggestion that someone not say, Okamura proposes populist proposals - nonsense. These are normal proposals that are being made in other close civilized countries, only Petr Fiala's government does nothing at all, it doesn't give a damn about citizens. So that's what we're proposing here. Yes, of course, the topic of our MP Radovan Vích - army, because as we know, our Member Radovan Vích is a retired colonel, he is a specialist, he has both a high and a high military school, so he knows what and how as one of the few here in terms of the army. He's not some amateur who wants to run an army and doesn't know his way around. And we are currently proposing expenditure on modernization of the Czech army here, because the SPD is promoting - we support the army, we support the soldiers, we support the modernization of the Czech army, but we want the change in the Czech army's strategy to protect the Czech territory and the protection of citizens of the Czech Republic, not that the priority should be as an expansionary mission of thousands of kilometres abroad, which notabene will end unsuccessfully, as we saw in Afghanistan. So this is what Radovan Vích is proposing here, modernizing the army, modernizing the existing technology as well and so on. And of course, as I said, we're taking the money out of chapters that we don't think are a priority, but that's out of the army's budget. Furthermore, I see some nice amendments, and I mention some, as well as our Member, Jiří Kobza, our Members, both doctors, Iveta Štefanová and Jan Síla, who want to support the health care workers, health care stations, who also want to increase support for hospitals, professional medical institutions, bed facilities. Our Members, because we have Members of all expertise in our club, we are trying to reduce where we can reduce, for example, the contributions to the European Union, which at the moment does not bring anything to the citizens. What good is it for citizens - what is the contribution to the European Union to citizens if they can't even afford energy when they can't even afford fuel? What's the point, the whole membership? But the government has distorted priorities, so that's the result, this. And all this nonsense - we're gonna lose our subsidies: what does an ordinary person have from a grant today when he's not into energy? If she has to think about it, if she wants the basket of basic foods? What's in it for him if the subsidies go only to the chosen ones? Yes, some of them may be needed, the subsidies, but the question is, what's in it for an ordinary citizen who doesn't even have power today! So these are completely pointless arguments, these are arguments that are completely Mars. So, nice changelings have our MPs too. In addition, I see nice changelings as our MP, who has a gesture with us, Zdeněk Kettner, when it comes to increasing support for, for example, the salaries of non-teaching workers, here colleague Kettner of the SPD suggests, is a professional teacher, so he knows exactly what he is talking about. Furthermore, we have the nice amendments that we have tabled, our Members, Karel Sládeček and Jan Hrnčíř, who are on the Committee on Budgets. This is precisely our biggest changeling, that we are reducing the contributions to the European Union by CZK 30 billion and, on the contrary, we are increasing - and here it is crucial - what I mentioned in my speech, he said - that we want the 30 billion to shift to support the reduction in the impact of energy prices and high inflation for the population. So this is the amendment where we want to increase spending in the budgetary reserve, but it should be determined in our opinion precisely to reduce the impact of energy price increases and high inflation for people. So we come up with concrete proposals. I already know how it will turn out, you choose, the government will choose a levy for the European Union, from which a citizen has nothing that has nothing to do with energy, and we want to put the money to help, on a general reduction in the impact of energy prices and high inflation for the population. So we're going to set up a mirror for you here with this amendment, and I already know how it's going to turn out, of course, you're going to take it to the EU rather than helping citizens, that's obvious, but of course there's going to be a vote on this, about our proposal, because for us Czech citizens, decent citizens, are in the first place. For you, Brussels comes first, this is how it's gonna turn out. For you abroad is the first priority, for us the Czech citizen is needed, which is today all citizens and companies, have problems with expensive energy, fuel, but also expensive food and housing. There is also an amendment, again Karel Sládeček and Honza Hrnčíř, to support special education, because the SPD supports disabled citizens. Nice amendments are also available to our SPD Members Lucie Šafránková, Vladimíra Lesenská, Radek Rozvoral, who - because you basically take single parents in this budget, you reduce support for disabled people, and we, among other things, will continue, here in one of the amendments we support foster parents and foster care, because it is undervalued there. Furthermore, in these amendments, we increase the contribution to care for people with disabilities - on the contrary, you refuse to increase the contribution to care adequately, the contribution to care has not increased for several years. Petr Fiala's government doesn't give a shit about disabled people, but the SPD supports them. So here we have an amendment to this, we already know how this is going to turn out, because this is an antisocial government, so, of course, you will vote against increasing the contribution to care, you, your government coalition. We SPD will vote to increase the care allowance for disabled citizens, but you overrule us because there are 108 of you. You were 107, but Mr. Farský finally knocked you out, so it's been completed. So we support the disabled here. [[9.50 hours]] Other amendments: Lucie Šafránková here already individually proposes to raise the money specifically by 100 million in order to maintain the availability of social services to disabled people. So here we are, so I don't have to name it all, we have here too, we're increasing the amount of extra maintenance for the careless child. You lower support for single parents, we want to call it back. It's just a sort of program clash this, this government five-wheeler that's totally against decent people. That's crazy what you guys designed here. Even in this situation, when people don't have money, and you're increasing billions of the European Union. This needs to be stressed repeatedly, what you are doing in this budget is absolutely incredible. You raise yourself up at the Office of the Government and the European Union and take decent people. That really needs to be emphasized repeatedly here. And, of course, we also propose increasing support for disabled people, in the form of a contribution to mobility, a contribution to special medical aids and so on. But it's always on the expense side, so that it's from the items, I've said random examples here, which from our point of view are necessary. So, in a nutshell, I have discussed some of our amendments. The SPD proposes, as I said at the outset, 21 amendments total CZK 59 billion. Basically, I'm saying again, in principle, this is the support of decent people, and we're saying exactly where to take it. So I'm saying again, as I explained here, that we in the SPD just for government budgets that don't even have symbolically set parameters of any efficiency, we just can't vote and we won't. And once again, I will repeat that the SPD is supporting decent citizens, and we will not retreat from this. And once again, I will conclude with just a few sentences that the government of Petr Fiala in the budget for this year, that is the budget for which Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura from ODS is responsible, so you are reducing support for disabled citizens, reducing support for single parents, reducing support for pensioners, reducing support for students - the SPD obviously does not agree with that. Moreover, Petr Fiala's government brings a reduction in the level of health care, low assessments of the necessary professions, such as firefighters, policemen, soldiers, non-teaching workers and so on. Well, low-- you canceled their promised money. And this government state budget, the government's proposed state budget, is also upside-down and anti-growth, because it limits investment. So thank you for your attention, and we're not really gonna support this kind of budget. At the same time, please Members who would like to think at least a little about citizens, especially from the government, in order to support our amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I give the floor to the next party with priority rights, Mr Andrej Babiš, I will read the apologies. I have a remark here that the morning meeting of the Security Committee has been extended, and the Members of this committee apologise, so far until 9.45. Mr Kott also cancels his apology from today and apologises for tomorrow 11. 3. from 10 to 12 hours due to a doctor's visit. Mr Rudolf Salvetr also apologizes today from the morning meeting for work reasons, and the last apology is the apology of Mr Miroslav Zborovský today from 9am to 12pm for family reasons. And now, please, with priority rights, the chairman of the ANO Andrej Babiš movement is entered into the debate. The President of the ANO club Alena Schillerová will then report with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u10	Hello, Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to make a very brief comment on the draft current budget. The budget is long overdue, outdated. That budget's got revenue cut. Today's government isn't talking about income, respektive's talking about giving up the EET, but I don't understand why the finance minister says that EET didn't bring anything, which, of course, is untrue, EET brought tens of billions and annually brings 13 billion. And if Deputy Kouba didn't give it to you, he's probably worried if he gives you the truth about getting fired. But it's clear, it's clear. And the Prime Minister - and I'm glad that he's in Brussels this time, because it's important that he be there and that we finally learn from Macron what he's been talking to Putin for two hours and what's going to happen next in Europe - and EET, the Prime Minister said it would help entrepreneurs. Yes, it will help the dishonest ones, so we're going back to a time when everyone will ask again: Do you want it on invoice or without invoice? And we all know that. I'm sorry, EET was an electronic project, the most important electronic project. It was the law of the year, and I am surprised that this government, which wants to digitize, does not use at all, does not want to use the EET only from the point of view of the information. So I will just repeat that we, as opposition, certainly support the government in steps in terms of support for Ukraine. We will therefore support Amendments 2.8 billion, 1.8 billion for Homeland and 1 billion for Defence. On the contrary, we have actually proposed, Mrs Schillerová, our President, will talk about all the amendments that we are proposing, but we support these proposals. I would just like to point out to the current government that, of course, aid to refugees is a big challenge, it is a logistical issue. It's kind of like we fought against covid. And, of course, by losing so much money, I would just like to point out that one state insured person costs CZK 21,000 a year, and if we have 250,000 Ukrainians here, it's up to the budget of CZK 5,250,000. The balance of insurance companies in 2020 was 60 billion, 2021 50 billion, and by the end of this year it will be 25 billion, and the health burden will be huge. So the budget: the government forgets, the finance minister forgets that it has revenue, that it still has 213 billion of the 2014 to 2020 European Funds programme, that it pre-finances it. I've always asked the secretary how much she has in the money, what's the hole? This means that those who asked for funding have already received money and then are waiting for European money. And if there's 60 or 100 or how much, I don't know, but the government doesn't talk about income. And so you actually got the macro, you got the extra 62 billion on January 20th. Of course, you're trying to tell people that you've reduced the deficit, you're talking about the deficit. Of course, it's easy if we count down what Mrs Schillerová had, the deficit, and the 62 billion, we get a 34 billion difference if we just take it through the deficit. Of course, we would give the pensioners, the Prime Minister criticizes us, our budget, but the budget was approved by the government of 30. 9. and, of course, if we were in the government, we would review it, the budget, of course, we would change it. So criticize us for budget approved 30. 9. isn't fair. [[10.00 hours]] So I'm mostly fascinated by your repeat-- the Prime Minister is still talking about it-- a pointless thesis where you say that Babišův's government gave people money and caused inflation. Fialův's government didn't give money to people. The awkwardness of Jurečka, where at the moment there are 31,060 applications and the average request is about 3,500. And that's what the clerks you've frozen their salaries to deal with. They have the lowest salaries - labour offices and social security have the lowest salaries within the state. Now the Ukrajinec are going to be there for the 5,000 for six months, and these ladies are going to have to administer all of this. And that's all you gave people. Let someone explain to me, and I don't understand it - we're not saying it's Fialův's price, like you said Babišův's price - we gave money, you say, we did inflation. And I was talking at the press conference this morning about inflation being double-digit for February, and now I have new information from the Czech Statistical Office, yes, and I hit it, inflation for February is 11 percent. And it's Purple's price? Is that Fialův's inflation? It's not. So where's the logic when you say we gave money, we caused inflation, you didn't give money, and you have double inflation? So where's the logic? I don't understand why you're saying this. And we can look at the details of the inflation in there. Electricity again - 22.6, increase in January 18,8, gas again - 28.3%, January 21,5, fuel again - 31 percent. And because, Minister, people pay higher prices, you get a VAT package, a huge VAT package. And you've also been charged because the average wage for the fourth quarter has reached 40,000. So you get a bunch of money, and, of course, the state of the budget is abnormal, because in the normal world, the revenue is spent first, and the revenue is distributed, and you're still talking about spending. And I've already asked you here to give us that detail, 77 billion of those so-called savings, but you know it's not savings, it's cuts. So the budget surge is going to be huge. So I appreciate that the government finally said yesterday that it would pay 180 crowns per adult bed and 90 crowns per child to those who accommodate Ukrajinec. Of course, this will cost all the money, and we support it. If anyone says that by saying, "Oh, my God, give our people money like everyone else does - we never said we didn't want you to support Ukrajinec. We ourselves do this within our opposition options. But we're still saying that you didn't help our people except for the embarrassment Mr. Jurečka invented, the eleven pages. So that's the problem, and I'd like to ask you again to think about our proposals. On the 62 billion that fell into your lap, the macro, on January 20, divided: 21 billion from the pensioner's law, 19 billion - again I ask you to forgive the renewables fees, 12 billion - again I ask you to forgive VAT on electricity, gas and heat from January to June 2022, and I now think you should forgive VAT on zero, I say for half a year, and then we will see the water and gutter, because of course the annual price has risen to an aqueous - 5.3 % and a gutter - 6.4. And all of this, the revenue, is because people pay it at prices. It's not normal for all the other states to do that. Our government was the first to forgive VAT on electricity and gas for November and December. And it would also be good if the Ministry of Finance asked through the Supervisory Board - I am told by the citizens that ČEZ does not even recognise their VAT that when they do not want to pay VAT in January, I have such complaints - so it would be good to ask why CEZ does not respect the decisions of the former Minister of Finance and the former Government to help. And we keep saying we're asking you to do it. You have the money, don't tell me you don't, public budgets are great. And I'm waiting for the government's balance to be published. That will sometimes be - I don't know, in March, in April, and of course it is clear that by the end of September there were huge balances on accounts - 313 billion municipalities and cities, 75 regions, had surplus management, because our government decided to support the government, and of course at the expense of the deficit that you are criticizing, but of course we can prove where the money ended. So you guys just didn't do anything for people, and even the bonds Mrs. Schillerová made, and I congratulate everyone who bought those bonds because at 11 percent inflation, I think it's the best investment, it's almost private equity investment that they get money, and it's a shame that you didn't continue because I think the strategy for citizens to own their country's debt is a great strategy. So inflation - I don't understand, and energy. Now, fuel. Propulsion - Hungary has been compromised at petrol stations. In Poland, they reduced excise duty and temporarily reduced VAT. Today, the difference between fuels in Poland and in our country is 10 to 12 crowns per litre. Of course, it benefits the budget, you get substantially more money. And now I would like you to focus well, our new government. Yesterday, you cancelled the incorporation of biofuels - a bio-component, and you supported this step, and Mrs. Černochová is not here, too bad she can't hear it, Putinův's regime, because this step, if the bio-component doesn't mix, the Czech Republic will buy 690 000 extra oil. So yesterday you decided to give Putin 14 billion times more than the Ukrajinec. I don't know who's informing you - you give 14 billion to Putin, who's killing people. This is unbelievable. And now I'm not talking about farmers losing 142 million, that's their problem. But this decision, and you know why you made such a decision, it's absolutely pointless. [[10.10 hours]] The Minister of Industry isn't here. Maybe he could learn something, too. Maybe he'd learn that we have two refineries, one in Litvínov, one on the Družba pipeline, that's where Russian oil flows, that's where it's made. And then we have the Kralupy refinery, which is in the outage, the planned outage, but it's on Azerbaijani oil, on the sweet oil. If it was in operation, I don't know how the oil would come, because the oil was always on the Black Sea, which is closed. So, just so you know how it works, and we're happy to advise you, you're there briefly, you're not experienced, but you don't hear what we're telling you. You don't hear what you should do. You don't hear that today you've got gas tanks filled with 16 percent, 570 million cc's, 16 percent. What are the Němec doing? Well, they buy gas! They want to buy 85 percent of the magazine. And why haven't you decided long ago that Švagr-in-law of the State Material Reserve should start buying gas? Rent those RWE clips, since we've privatized in the past and we've got nothing, we've got nothing. Do you mít a hundred percent ČEPRO, where they will explain what a bio-component is, because the crown - and it is not 2 crowns - is the crown that gets the crown? No Unipetrol, CHPRO and these businessmen. People get nothing. They're not getting anything. So you supported Putinův's regime, you're gonna buy more oil from Putin, people are gonna get nothing, and they're gonna make these... The crown. I don't know what the price is today, 51 or what? And so I'm talking oil, the price of $125 barrel was yesterday, today is 113.6. So you should buy gas. You should, yes, that's strategic, gas is heating. Those refineries that somebody sold for a crown, and today they're not even able to fight for the interests of Czech companies, they don't belong to us, yes, and before you turn oil into diesel or gasoline... I've always criticized that we're holding oil supplies when we don't have refineries, we're supposed to keep oil and gasoline, aviation gasoline, yeah. So you should buy gas, Minister of Finance. A gentleman who owns one publishing house who lies from morning to evening has OKD. I bought it for $70 million, we saved it OKD. OKD will have 4.5 billion crowns in his account by the end of this year, okay? So again, I'm asking you, through your subsidiary Prisko, to extend the mining in OKD from 2022 to 2025, to extract additional 6 million coal, to help the entire region. [[tons?]] Green Deal's over! [[In an elevated voice.]] If someone keeps talking, when the coal ends, we take Putinův's gas, they go crazy in Europe, okay? Today, whoever has coal is making heavy money, heavy money! I hope you manage to take an extraordinary dividend from ČEZ because they are drowning in money, and I did not talk Mrs Schillerová into taking an extraordinary dividend, she could have taken 30, she married 15. So, OKD, do something about it, change your government's programming statement that you want to end coal 2033. Boiler subsidies, a huge success for Brabec, but I don't think it's all gonna make it, the commitment, I think it's gonna be September 2022. Well, try extending it to these people so they won't be stressed. And, of course, it needs to be supported. So we're suggesting specific things to you: buy gas, prolong coal mining in OKD, you've got a lot of money there, stop talking about ending coal, figure out the boilers, okay? And please, your strategy, and I don't really want to talk about agriculture, I understand that you support farmers who grow weed. But people don't eat weed! [[In an elevated voice.]] They eat grain, grain is flour and flour is bread. Who is the largest oil producer in Europe? Ukraine. There even a Russian rocket hit the ship, 40 percent of oil consumption Europe takes from Ukraine. How much is grain today? And if you're doing the policy you're doing, then, even though I never wanted to say it, you'll be responsible for the food prices exploding, exploding! And the question is, of course, where does it end up, if the strings are gonna push everyone over again? So it would be good, and we're prepared to advise you on how to help our people. You're gonna throw our middle class into poverty, into poverty! Again, I'm not saying it's Mr. Fiala's expensive, I'm not saying it's his inflation when you said it, but I'm saying it's things that no one could control. So why the money people pay for, why don't you want to give it back to them? I really don't understand. We support Ukrajinec, it will cost a lot of money, but it is not possible for our people to be forgotten when they help. We were elected, we were elected Czech citizens, we are here for Czech... This does not mean that he will not support Ukrajinec, but we cannot forget our people. And the help is insufficient, you didn't actually do anything, and you're still sending some signals, but the Indians, when they were sending signals, the other Indian tribe reacted somehow, something - they sent a signal. You're sending signals and no one's responding. But if you're sending signals, at least within a five-wheeler, you're gonna... you're gonna send out that signal, but for God's sake, react, do something at last, it's a crisis! If we were in government, we'd be driving for 24 hours! We sit around all the time, we decide! [[In an elevated voice.]] We're making decisions. I know the Prime Minister's having a hard time, I don't even envy him, five-caliber, it must be hell. But even so, the ODS is in a great position, so you have the power to finally decide to make decisions for the benefit of our people. And I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, Mr President, and it is now registered with the priority right of the President of the ANO club Alena Schillerová and Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are getting to the third reading of the State Budget Act in an unprecedented situation for two reasons. First of all, we are discussing the state budget law in the historically longest budgetary commission of the Czech Republic and at the same time Perhaps the Chamber of Deputies has never discussed a state budget so far apart from reality as it is today. Of course, this is largely due to the current crisis, no one denies it and, of course, does not blame the government. But there are a number of areas that we've pointed out much earlier and that were here before the terrible war, but he hasn't taken into account the draft budget either. So let us now look together at the areas that the state budget has forgotten. I'll start the pre-war situation. The cuts in the state budget, which I will now appoint, are fully at the hands of this government, and the Minister of Finance bears full responsibility for them - and he knows that for sure. The current five koalice, with full consciousness, almost - I will say almost no more, today it is certain - a double-digit increase in inflation, a moment ago it was published, we decided to cut public sector salaries by CZK 9 billion, which means a real decline in the incomes of thousands of workers in the Czech Republic - soldiers, police officers, firefighters, but even officials in employment offices or elsewhere. [[10.20 hours]] So did the current government, and here I really see it as a red rag, spending in the chapter of the Ministry of Health from the original 24 billion that our government presented in the budget, up to 18 billion. Absolutely irresponsible and dangerous! Another 15 billion were cut off on investment. I'm talking - the Minister is not here, it doesn't matter - about investment in defence and infrastructure. I'm sure you're feeling a little chilly today when you finally realized that these cuts could soon cost us a lot of money. To reduce payments for state insured persons amounting to CZK 14 billion, which are mothers for maternity, pensioners, carefree children, but they will also be migrants from Ukraine, I will be back soon. These are all cuts that you have made with the full knowledge that you are loitering the state budget to the bone, and that if any unexpected situation occurs, whether in the form of a pandemic's return or something like that, you will not be able to respond operationally. The situation, unfortunately, I say unfortunately, has arisen. Only a few hundred kilometers away, there was a war. It is our duty to help Ukraine humanely, but at the same time we are facing hundreds of thousands of migrant refugees from Ukraine, which, of course, we must also help them. You know that, as the strongest opposition party, we support government policy in this regard, but we also need to address rapidly rising energy prices, raw materials, fuel, but also food. Food, let's not forget that this will also involve food. I admit that, for example, you could not count on rising fuel prices, but energy prices were already rising long before. But the budget is not prepared for emergency situations at all, not to mention all these commodities. In view of the development of the situation in Ukraine, they have added or, respectively, this House will approve it - our votes as well as the votes of members of the YES - 2.8 billion from the government's budgetary reserve. Of which CZK 300 million for humanitarian aid, 2.5 billion for dealing with the situation in the Czech Republic will really not be enough, and you know it. The Minister of Interior presented in the media about 14 days ago that it would take up to 20 billion crowns. But I'm afraid this, too, is an optimistic estimate. It will inevitably be necessary to address this situation from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as from the point of view of health and other areas. Of course, the school resort cannot be prepared for tens of thousands of new underage children and pupils that we will have to take care of. But even this chapter will have to be greatly increased. It is also necessary to ensure the most fluid migration of refugees to the labour market. Expenditure for labour offices, active employment policy, but also language courses, must be allocated. Looking at the situation, it also seems quite reasonable to invest more in the defense department. After all, that's what we did, and we handed you the defense department in a much better condition than we used to. You have never been able to hear from any of our Members, nor will you ever hear from them, to limit the support of Ukraine. What we are saying is that the government must be able to manage both things at the same time - to help Ukraine and help our people with enormous speed to increase the cost of life. Now, please allow me to return to the expenses of the state insured. The public health insurance system has been in deficit due to a medical crisis for two years. Last year, the height of this deficit was CZK 13 billion. I have already warned you at first reading that the reduction of the contribution to state insurance is still a fragile health situation in the Republic in the period of the impending gambling pandemic. We find ourselves in a situation where thousands of migrants come to us every day, and your government declares that they will become state insured. It's okay. So the question is, where does the public health insurance system take the money for this? This whole situation will lead to the decimation of the basic fund of health insurance companies and highly likely also of the reserve and operational fund. Our government has levelled the health conditions by comparing the inherited underfunded sector with the level that is common in developed countries. As a result, our citizens will receive quality health care. We've improved the health and management of hospitals. We also raised health salaries. And now? We're saving up for medical care again. It's all wrong! At the same time, let me remind you again that your budget does not take into account the increase in energy prices in two levels. First, at a time of record price increases, it declares that state budget spending on heat, gas or electricity, at a time of dynamic price increase higher than the Ministry of Finance calculated with a few months ago. I wonder how this will all turn out, if you really manage to save on energy, heat or gas at the current time. However, what bothers me even more than your positive estimates is that the record increase in these prices is not addressed by the citizens of this Republic. Poland, Belgium, Spain, Bulgaria, Austria, Great Britain, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Hungary, Slovakia and many other countries are taking measures to balance the current dramatic price increase, only the Czech government blindly overlooks and ignores it. At the same time, as a result of inflation, it has at least CZK 62 billion more, and I dare say that this may be even more, given how inflation is growing. Why don't you at least give this money back to people in the form of forgiveness of the renewables fee, by reducing VAT on electricity, gas and heat, by reducing VAT and by putting fuel prices on the ceiling? What this government did yesterday in addressing high fuel prices is literally a mockery to all people. Despite all this, I realize that this state budget needs to be adopted, because the government needs to start drawing on the government's budget reserve. That's the only source, a couple of units of billions that he has at his disposal immediately. They need to process the covido programs that are still only promised, they need to straighten out the area of social services. I do not see here today a Member for KDU-ČSL Kaňkovský, whom I have always appreciated in the past period. Even though he was in opposition, he fought... Oh, sorry, sorry, he's sitting elsewhere than I used to. I apologize to you, through Madam Vice-President, Mr. Ambassador. You've always fought for social services here. And I was thinking, even though it pissed me off, I was thinking, oh, my God, it was 7 billion in 2007, what went into social services, and we ended up - our government - at 25 in 2021, so I kept wondering, where's the ceiling? But I thought, he's fighting for them. He is fighting, and although you were in opposition, I appreciated this immensely through the Vice-President. Now you're quiet. You are silent, even though social services are being taken away, even though they have problems with funding because of the provisional, and you, through the Vice-President, are silent. I'm a little disappointed in that. Maybe it'll get better. So we will not support the budget as a whole, we will support a number of amendments, especially the two fundamentals that I have talked about, although they are from the workshop of the government coalition, but they make sense. Again, it won't be enough. We will not block the budget, we will allow it to be adopted, because it would hinder the government and the economy of this country and everyone at all. We're not gonna do that, we're gonna be constructive in this direction. [[10.30 hours]] And I want to believe that the Minister of Finance is already working on a novel that I hope will come very soon, I hope that he will use it as a rep, that he will free himself from all those attitudes that I hope he sees today - that they have not made sense and will correct the budget. He'll have more than enough income. In this case, I hope the famous Baťův's will not pay - now it has landed on my social media when I went to work - the famous Baťův: Don't say you can't, say you can't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Now Karel Havlíček had the right to speak with priority, but he prefers with priority rights registered to Andrea Babiš. Please, Congressman and Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u14	I'm sorry, I forgot, and I'd like to read some report from the Agrofert Foundation, and maybe it'll soften our government a little bit. Q: How is the single mother with the disabled child at today's price of petrol and diesel? The foundation supports a lot of moms who take care of their own child with disabilities. Some of these children are integrated into mainstream schools, but a lot of them go to special schools, and older ones go to daily staff. These schools and staff are often tens of miles away from the mother's home. There is no exception that a single mother rides 80 kilometers every day just to bring the child to school and pick him up again. All disabled children then need to transport their cars to the doctor, often several times a week. The road through public transport is absolutely unthinkable for them. How will the government help these families? Well, not at all. The mobility allowance is CZK 550 per month, which, at today's prices, will be loaded with a quarter of the tank. The Labour Office does not give any possibility to apply for an extra immediate fuel assistance allowance. Care allowance isn't meant to pay for fuel, although what we're going to talk about is what's left for these families to use for gas station payments at today's fuel prices, but it's not going to help the family much either. So there's no other possible contribution, and what are these moms gonna do? So will they stop driving the children to school or to the doctor? So try to think about it, Minister. Minister Jurečka is not here. I still don't understand that when the employment office comes up with someone who's entitled to a contribution in material distress, they first give him a list of foundations - the Agrofert Foundation hasn't been eliminated this time, so they're first on the foundation to bring paper to the employment office that the foundation won't give them money. But our foundation gives, and we will support them, but, my God, really try to think about it, because this is not possible, it's not possible, okay? Thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning, and we will continue to discuss the state budget for this year. And with priority rights, Vice-President Karel Havlíček is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u16	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. We approve the budget that we all know will be amended. I wouldn't blame anyone. Finally, we, too, had to amend the budget several times during the crisis. If in December, when we gave you responsibility, we didn't say and recommend that our budget be adopted... We understood that you could make your own adjustments there, that you could change it, but in time it would be amended, and we could save ourselves a three-month budget provisional, which ends by approving a budget that everyone knows will be amended again. I understand that spending is growing, no one is responsible for Ukraine, and no one would blame you. But it is not true that the budget will only be amended because of the Ukrainian crisis. In the budget reserve, in which there would be CZK 8 billion per year, the spending associated with Ukraine could probably be dissolved, but if it had not been worked from the start with accounting tricks, it is aware that the budgetary reserve is only on paper, and that what we have spent on savings is not really savings, but that it will either manifest itself to us by draining the budget reserve very soon, or by drawing on future revenues, or by pulling out resources that are still there from 2021. It's running into the government today, and it's running out at a time when the budget isn't even approved yet. The worst thing about it is that it would have to be remodeled anyway because of the energy crisis in the world, which is not only linked to Ukraine - yes, it is true that Ukraine has given it the final blow, but since December we note that there are not enough resources in the budget to deal with the energy crisis. We don't blame the government for the price of energy, it's not her fault. We do not blame the government for not working with any measures that would result in energy prices at least partially collapsing and not occurring in households or in companies of total apocalypse. The situation is serious. It cannot be seen that energy prices are higher than they were in 2021 or exactly a year ago. The Ukrainian crisis still raised them, but it became clear during January and February that the situation was unbearable. Yet the government has put only a fraction of what it should put in the budget, in terms of social support, which is not effective at all. So we've all been waiting for the stress of how yesterday's government was going to end, when it signaled that, after all, there could be some changes and at least a basic framework for support in the field of energy and fuel. What's the result? Energy prices or support within electricity, which is eight times higher than a year ago - zero. Support for growth in gas prices, which is tenfold greater than a year ago - zero. Support for enormous growth in fuel prices as a result of the oil price increase, which is about twice as high on the stock exchange as last year, is as follows: bio-components according to your Minister of Industry Síky, impact on prices - zero. Optimists say that at best it could be around the crown, so virtually no help. And the panoptics are completed by abolishing the road tax, which in principle no one is suffering today, which is not intended for everyone, but only for entrepreneurs, even selected entrepreneurs, which will mean that they will withdraw from the budget of the SFDI - the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure - another 5.5 billion CZK, which could be used for the construction of transport infrastructure, and the already missing nearly 40 billion CZK - I repeat, almost 40 billion CZK is missing in 2023 for the transport infrastructure - will be taken next year by 5.5 billion. Not to mention the fact that the road tax will also affect the year 2022, when the budget is already reduced by CZK 3 billion, or it is a budget that cannot finance repairs and maintenance on the railroad and will reduce further construction. So you're taking something out of the budget that might have served. It doesn't help anybody at the moment, and if, at least, the result is that fuel prices will be the same as they were. You are tearing down what we have created, especially with regard to investment construction and investment growth. You're not helping those who need it, and yet you're changing the budget. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u17	At present, we have exhausted all the applications with priority rights, and in that case we will continue the debate according to the duly registered ones. I will therefore ask for Mr Jan Volný's speech and Mr Farhan Kamal will be prepared. I would like to ask if there is an MP Jan Volný? [[The Free Member enters the hall.]] In case he's not present... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't see you in the room. I will ask you, colleagues, to be patient for a moment and to give the floor to Mr Jan Volný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, thank you very much and I am sorry I haven't been here for a while. Please, I'll be very brief. I would like to comment on my amendment, which is in the Houses of the Press 144/3 in Annex B2, under order number 57. I would like to read the legislative technical adaptations. Due to the rounding of the calculation, the total amount of expenditure received by mistake to the printing in the indicator was 1 CZK higher than it should have been. The correct value of the amount, which is transferred to Chapter 398, is the General Treasury Administration, therefore 98 969 400 Czech crowns. Colleagues and fellow Members, this is an amendment which has basically responded a little to the proposal submitted by a group of coalition Members and will be voted in Chapter 2A under order number 4. I have already said at second reading that I am in favour of the chapters managed by the Committee being involved in a certain solution to the situation that has occurred and, unfortunately, which is being financially suffered by all our citizens and most institutions in this Republic, which means that these chapters will be reduced by about 2,5 percent. But I cannot absorb the fact that with seven chapters there are five chapters as I think it is bearable and correct, they have been humiliated by 2.5 percent, but for the chapter of the President of the Republic, or the Castle, it is humiliated by 5.5, which means more than twice as much as for the other chapters. I'm a little sorry, and I don't think it's just about numbers, that there are other stimuli. The second such disproportion, which bothers me a little bit, is that in the chapter of the Office of Budget Responsibility, nothing is actually reduced and there is zero. That, too, I think, is not quite good, it is not a good report card, and the President of this office himself would probably resent it or not feel it positively, because the office, which should, above all, take care of gentleness, has zero. However, budget approval has certain rules, and I would like to ask one more thing and present this. If the amendment in Annex A2 is approved under order number 4, then I will consider my amendment in Annex B2 under order number 57 as unvoteable and please do not vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. The rapporteur noted your remark and everything will be taken into account when approving the voting procedure. I will now request a speech in the context of Mr Kamil Farhan's general debate and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, the State Budget for 2022, as revised and presented by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies, has included two fundamentally disturbing reports for the Czech health sector. The first report is: historically, for the first time ever, it takes money from the public health insurance system since its inception. It's the first time since the Velvet Revolution when the government takes money from health insurance. Technically, another law will still have to be amended to reduce the amount of payments to state health insurance companies for state insured persons, but the decision to collect health money is given by the political line of the draft state budget law. The second bad news is that the government is weakening the state's ability and capacity to face a pandemic by cutting funds at county health stations. Already today, the public health insurance system is deficit-free, and the government is increasing the deficit of health insurance companies by reducing the state budget deficit and increasing the deficit of the public health insurance system by the same amount. In other words, the government is exorcising the deficit, and it faces the fact that the public health insurance system does not mind that health insurance companies have enough money in their accounts from the past, and they can finance the deficit from their reserves. This year, the Ministry of Finance's view is fine. The existing reserves will be spent, and at the end of the year they will be at zero, at best. This is not just my opinion, it is also the opinion of the petitioners, when the explanatory memorandum states that these funds on health insurance companies will be equal to zero. I must say that this is a rather peculiar procedure for the responsible management of public funds. The reserves and reserves of public health insurance are not intended to be burned irrecoverably by the Ministry of Finance in a situation where it needs to improve the balance of the state cash register in the current year. The reserves of health insurance companies are here to cover health care costs when an extraordinary unexpected adverse situation occurs. This was the case in the past, for example, at the time of the economic recession in 2008. The emergency situation is also a pandemic and today's refugee wave from Ukraine, with which the government and health insurance companies do not yet know what unforeseen costs the Czech public health sector can incur. It is clear from the basic characteristics that health spending must at any moment have a growing year-on-year trend, because it is due firstly to demographics, i.e. by ageing the population, when more and more people live to be older, when they need more health care over a longer period of time. Another important characteristic is the development of technologies, the entry of new drugs and new innovations. New drugs, new therapies, health technologies that can save people's lives and improve and prolong the quality of life to an extent that we did not dream of, but even the previous generations. This shows that if we want to provide affordable and high-quality healthcare to the extent that we have been used to so far in the Czech Republic, freeze or even reduce the amount of funds in health care from the logic of the matter will always lead to restrictions on the availability of care. If the conciliation procedure for 2023 begins with the fact that insurance companies will go to it with a proposal for a zero increase in the remuneration of hospitals, practitioners and outpatient specialists at 8% inflation, then if I still remember correctly from school, if the law on the conservation of matter is to apply, somewhere that money must be missing. [[10.50 hours]] In the coalition agreement and the programming declaration, the government promised to valorize or increase payments on a regular basis for state insured persons. After three months of governance, with a cut in payments in the year of governance, he's losing the 14 billion. According to the recent statement by Minister Válek, in the second year of the government, i.e. in 2023, the payment for state insured persons will be at the maximum present level. But he said that he was negotiating with the Ministry of Finance a corridor of CZK 1,850 to CZK 1,980 per state insured person, so very likely the government will again put less money into health care than it is this year, and even less will be next year. Instead of valorizing payments...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u21	Mr. Ambassador, I apologize for entering into your speech, but at this point in time, I need to quote Section 106, par. In accordance with Article 21 (2) of the Rules of Procedure relating to the third reading debate. This paragraph states that there is a debate at the third reading in which it is possible to propose only the correction of legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the amendments tabled, or to make a proposal for repeating the second reading. No more is adopted in the Rules of Procedure and any additional resolutions. I apologize, but like you, I will also lead other colleagues to respect the Rules of Procedure, because the third reading of the state budget is not intended to substitute the second reading of the state budget. Please continue, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u22	I just wanted to comment on the reduction of financial flows into health insurance. Personally, I consider reducing that money to health care to be unacceptable, dangerous, and I will not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, Congressman, for respecting the Rules of Procedure. Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear, Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u24	Dear Vice-President, colleagues, unfortunately, there are only two ministers here.... Three? [[From the diaper sounds like three.]] I don't see the third one... ah, here, sorry. Whatever the most important law of the year, we're at third reading. I think it's going pretty fast. It is 10.52 o'clock, all the priority rights have already spoken, now we, the ordinary Members, are speaking. I think this is going to end faster than we all expected, but let us say some basic things about the budget again. I specifically put in three amendments, actually four, because one replaced the previous one. This is a stop to futile bailouts and means where we no longer touch the reserve, because it would probably - and we don't know that now - be put to the vote, but to the state debt. The Minister of Finance here said that the budget is responsible and anti-inflationary. On the concrete examples of these amendments, I will show that the budget is not responsible for me, nor is it anti-inflationary. I would use the words unnecessary, uptight, injustice, untruth, rolling and not spending time and capacity. As far as unnecessary, the result of this...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u25	Okay, Mr. Ambassador, continue your speech, but I'm going to ask the President of the club of the ANO movement, Mrs. Schillerová, to come to me for a brief consultation to discuss the House's Rules of Procedure. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u26	As for the unnecessary, there, when you look at the promised result and that the Czech Republic was here in the budget commission, it certainly wasn't balanced for me. Promised cuts of 60 to 120 billion ended at 34.5 billion. As for the uptightness, it seems to me that the changes at all costs are contrary to the original proposal as the whole economy in the Czech Republic develops. I predict you'll come in three months with a new state budget that will fix some of your cuts and deal with them. Injustice: somewhere is being cut or cut - that is the Office of the Government - and somewhere - and that is what I am trying to correct - is being cut for nothing. It is a humiliation of the budget at the Energy Regulatory Office, the Czech Telecommunications Office, for example with a financial arbiter it makes 25 percent down. This seems really unfair to me, while we also know what is rushing consumers in the field of energy, in the area of telecommunications. Improper budget: look, the post office will have to pay a billion and a half, it's not in the budget. Disturbing futile bailouts will cost some 400, 500 million crowns. It's not in the Department of Justice's budget. This is my amendment under the number originally 467, the new 569. You're gonna have to put it there anyway, 'cause stopping those useless bailiffs is legal. A colleague has already spoken about 14 billion on lower health insurance for state insurance, so I won't delay. As regards the concept of rolling: here I would like to remind you that not one amendment from the opposition has been accepted despite the fact that many of them are clearly justified. I'm predicting and saying this in advance - I'm willing to bet whether you and the chairman of the budget committee or the finance minister who isn't here - that you're going to put some of those things back in three months, raise them up, and somehow rethink it, so it's going to happen anyway. As regards the use of time and capacity: adjustments, changes in the budget do not respond to the current situation here. You're able to put in a budget where you're still waiting to change the law. That's the money for state insurance. Similarly, there could be a change here that responds to the current situation, for example by reducing VAT or excise taxes not only on fuel, but also on energy, because here I will mention the economic rule that reducing those rates does not automatically mean lower tax collection. When you look at trucks, the Czech Republic just passes through and doesn't pick up anything here, because it's 8 or 10 crowns more expensive than in Poland. The Minister also said that this is an anti-inflationary budget. I'd like to fix it here, too. All this time you said inflation was driven by demand, which means people have more money. I've been saying all along since the beginning that it's a supply demand, and it's still imported outside. Now it turns out who's right, because people now have less money and less money, as it gets more expensive, and yet inflation breaks records. So it's not even true. In other words, as I said, I have three amendments dealing with consumer protection, which I read at second reading. For me, the budget, as I said, is unnecessarily uptight, unfair, at some points untrue. You're wrestling with opposition at the moment. You will not hear a single amendment yet with regard to the budget. As for the third reading debate, Mr Vice-President, I'm sorry, I'm going to look at the tapestry right now, but we've had the debate here, we've had the political debate, we've always had what I remember at the third reading. We have always led her here, and the President has never warned that this man is in any way expressing himself in general on the state budget. It never happened, this is the first time. That means, you're saying that you're a change, that you're kinder to the opposition, you want us to be kind to you, given the situation in Ukraine, and now you're correcting us here, and you want to take our word at the moment when we don't deviate from the content of the matter at all. Again, we are in the third reading of the state budget, which is the most important law of the year, and each of us, both my colleague Farhan and I, have talked about the state budget, the money, the amendments, the consequences. None of us ever got anywhere else with a word of it. Again, it's 11 o'clock, there's only six debaters. It's not like there's 45 of us logged in, and it's 9 o'clock in the evening, where I can understand the context of what you said. So I'm going to ask you to measure us on the same subway as we measured you in the last term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for your contribution. For the sake of completeness only, I should quote as regards the Rules of Procedure. This section 106 points (a) and (b) of the Annex 2 - it is a new legislation which takes effect on 1 January 2022. I'm telling you the truth, yes, in previous years, when the budget was being discussed, sometimes third readings were replaced by second readings. I have only quoted the current regulation of the Rules of Procedure here. I appreciate the sympathy of the opposition, however, at this point, I do not want to be involved in the debate because I am in charge of the House. I was merely quoting the current regulation of the Rules of Procedure, which entered into force on 1 January 2022. So I will now ask Mr Aleš Juchelka to speak, and Mrs Margita Balaštíková will prepare herself. Sorry, sorry, I overlooked Mr Skopeček's point of fact. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u28	Thank you very much. I want to respond directly to my previous speaker, who criticized the current government in his speech, that it was not worth reducing the deficit in quotation marks or that the savings are so low that it wasn't worth it. I would like to remind you that the deficit is decreasing by 25 per cent compared to the original proposal. We are reducing the deficit in the budget that we did not prepare, but which we inherited from the previous government, and it was therefore clear that, over the next few weeks, there was very limited room for any systemic saving of mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditures that burden our budgets most and which will have to be the basis for the following years, within which we will try to consolidate public expenditure. I believe that even my colleague Nacher has noticed new inflation data today, which shows that February inflation has exceeded 11 percent. I am convinced, deeply convinced, that this inflation is due to the dominantly relaxed monetary and very relaxed fiscal budgetary policy from the ANO workshop that we have had here in recent years and which has inflated the high inflation that we have inherited in the Czech Republic. And if we do not admit here in the Chamber of Deputies that we will not get rid of inflation when monetary policy, but also fiscal and budgetary policy, becomes much more responsible that the party is over, then we lie to ourselves, but we lie to the citizens of the Czech Republic in particular. I believe that the budget, as it is prepared, is the first report that budgetary policy in the Czech Republic is changing, that it will be much more responsible and that it will fight more effectively against the high inflation that we now have in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher responds to you with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Just a brief response to his honored colleague, Mr. Skopeček. Well, I have a feeling that the inflation thing, and that it's going to be driven by demand, could be said in a theory, maybe a month and a half ago. I think everyone can see now that it's absolutely not true. Absolutely not, because if it was true before that people had more money, more wages, they were spending and they were spinning inflation, so now that everything is getting more expensive - it is not just fuel, it is energy, and other things are being tied to it, even individual products are getting more expensive - it is being dragged very clearly, clearly by the price of different commodities - so at that point people are saving more. That means the idea that everything is going to get expensive, and according to my colleague, all of a sudden everyone is going to start buying the more expensive stuff and the more it spins, it's completely illusionary. It has now become clear additionally that inflation is driven largely by the international situation that began with the covid and continues with the conflict. So let's just say this, and let's not go in some old script that we're going to repeat here for the next three months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, with a factual remark, Vice-President Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u32	Unfortunately, I must say that my colleague, through Mr President, is wrong. Please take a look at the data of the Czech National Bank, which monitors various types of inflation including so-called core inflation, energy-adjusted inflation. If he looks at inflation in the Czech Republic adjusted for the commodity prices he was talking about, he will find that we have inflation around 8%, which is one of the highest figures in Europe at all. So there is no way that only energy prices could be at current inflation. In principle, inflation is not due to the current international policy situation. The war in Ukraine did not show up to February's inflation data at all, or it showed up from a very small part. We will know the true consequences of what is happening in Ukraine only in March and the next months, so that inflation can be expected to grow. These are data from the Czech National Bank, they are found on its website and a colleague is really wrong. We have prepaid this inflation here in the previous years with a very relaxed monetary policy and a very relaxed fiscal policy. The Czech economy lives on drugs of very cheap money, lives on drugs of very relaxed public spending, which fell off the chain during the previous government, from any development that would correspond to the performance of the Czech economy. And if we lie to each other here and blame it on the covid and the international political situation, then we lie to the citizens and ordain even higher inflation in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Your speech raised a factual remark by Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u34	Mr President, Mr Vice-President did not make a comment, I was reminded of your warning of the speeches made by our Members, which are really few. I sat here last term. I just found it, specifically you. When the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2021 was discussed, the House's press 1067, third reading, you spoke four times, and now that I read it - it's a very long one - it wasn't exactly a third reading either. I would really like to ask you, our Members, our shadow government is speaking to its amendments, which they have tabled, once. You got off four times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u35	Yes, Madame, for this reason I have also quoted the Rules of Procedure and its amendment, which took effect on 1 January 2022. I think that we have agreed with the President of your Club Schillerová, and I will take this issue as one of the themes for the discussion of the clear interpretation of the Gremia, because we will also discuss the budgets in the coming years, so that there is a clear interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and that we are in agreement. Mr Patrik Nacher will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u36	Well, I've got to get back to my colleague Skopeček. I'm so sorry, he always pulls one thing out of context and doesn't put it in context. So I'm going to do something against him and myself, because we have the same opinion about this, and I'm going to compare what inflation is in the territories that pay the euro and the crown. That's exactly the same thing as being out of context. The euro area average of 5.8, in Slovakia 8.2, with us 11.1, and that is why we accept the euro and leave the koruna. For me, it's exactly the same demagogy that has nothing to do with it. It needs to be seen in some context. These numbers are roughly a reaction within some tweet communication of an entity that is pushing the euro here. But that's exactly it. I'm gonna take one thing, one class, I'm gonna drop everything else, and I'm gonna say, it's because of that. And that is exactly what happened with that - we raised wages last year, and that is the basis for inflation. It's exactly the same as the euro. Otherwise, there's a note about the other one. I am glad that the President has let me finish my speech. Meanwhile, I have found out about the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and it is said that this matter has not changed with regard to the programme and the rules at the third reading. It's the same, and it's the same rule for the last - I don't know - x years. There's no change from 1. 1. did not occur. Just so we're clear. I'm not an expert on the Rules of Procedure, and I've been made aware of that, so I'm saying it here on the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u37	I thank you, and what I said is that I will take it to the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies to unite in connection with the interpretation of this paragraph. Mr Skopeček's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Nacher here is fighting with the thesaurus that I didn't say at all. First of all, the euro. I myself responded to the contribution which showed that there is more than 5% of inflation in the euro area and that that is why we should adopt the euro, so I reacted critically, that this is a stupid argument, because when we look at the euro area, France is there with about 3% inflation, but Estonia is there with 11% inflation, so that euro area membership is not a guarantee of low inflation, it is an average. On the contrary, it shows the absurdity of the project that there is such a spread of inflation. I didn't even say that we have inflation because the previous government would raise salaries, and you won't find anything like that in my speech. In my speech, you will find criticism of the previous government in budgetary policy, criticism that the spending side of the budget has grown enormously in recent years, and the state budget spending has grown by hundreds of billions, and this is a phenomenon that has blown inflation in the Czech Republic, a phenomenon that, along with monetary, and a very relaxed monetary policy, has caused high inflation in the Czech Republic, and who will lie and blame it on covid and blame it on the war in Ukraine - which certainly does not help inflation in the Czech Republic, will certainly make it worse, will increase energy prices, which will be rewritten in high inflation - so we are simply lying. The basis for this high inflation is that we are living beyond the conditions both in budgetary policy and in monetary policy. In short, our economy is on drugs, very high public spending drugs, and very low interest rates on drug use. And if we don't admit it and we lie to our citizens that it's okay that it's possible to manage and operate in the coming years, then we're only going to impose higher and higher inflation on them in the following years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u39	I thank you and, therefore, Mr Aleš Juchelka, who is now duly registered, will be prepared by Mrs Margita Balaštíková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u40	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, just to begin with, a little bit of a two-sigh. The first is that I see that no one in the debate is at all from coalition Members, that they have not tabled any amendments at all. I remember at least me, or I don't know, colleague Nacher, fighting with my own government here, having a hard discussion with Alena Schillerová about our amendments to social, where we wanted to raise some budgets or redirect some funding, but at this point, it's really quiet by foot. The second sigh is related to the amendments and, of course, I am asking for the support of the Chamber of Deputies on my three amendments - 5.2.1, 5.2.2, 5.2.2. These are the House documents, the press of the House documents. The sigh is that yesterday, when I was watching the government press conference, I was really, I would say, in the words of my dear fellow ex-com Member, appalled. I expected that the government would actually bring some solutions, that it would bring people some hope, that everyone at the screen expected that, in some way, the government would stand up to - or would have a clear view of energy prices, fuel prices, that mortgage prices, food prices were rising, and so on, but we had de facto learned that citizens had gotten another slap from the government, one big zero that wouldn't really help them in their homes and families. And I would have underlined that zero even a little bit more by quoting that was in the media yesterday, where the princely council was - quote, cut fuel consumption, part of the money ends at Putin. Did the government that came to the meeting this morning in their limos really say that to citizens who do not live in large cities and cannot use the perfect public transport pile, such as in Ostrava, but do they have to commute for example - and this has to do with my amendments - to their jobs or with a disabled child to the staff just so that they can work and put the child there from a village to a larger city? These are two sighs, because I really don't like it, from the point of view of rising energy prices, fuel prices, mortgages, this government has completely forgotten - but thanks to my amendments, it can still be a little bit better - for the middle class, simply and simply for the family. Of course, for a family whose parents work, they have a mortgage on a house or an apartment, and for them, this government has prepared absolutely nothing. We propose, at least in the only thing the government has prepared, to increase the housing allowance by 3 billion and finally to do something for citizens of the Czech Republic, who have seen astronomically rising prices not only in fuel but also in supermarkets for several days. The surrounding states took care of it. I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region, we drive across the border to Poland, there are a number of cars with Czech plates because simply Poland thinks of its citizens and reduced VAT on fuel from 23 to 8 percent. Austria has helped all citizens, 1.7 billion euros, to avoid such a huge increase in energy prices as they had in Austria. Slovakia, we know that, last month, electricity prices froze for households and Hungary, and that has put fuel prices on the table. My three amendments are related to social services. The first, there we are increasing the social services budget by 1 billion precisely because social service providers during this year will face increased energy prices and, as they provide services to all those who need assistance services, care services, seniors, disabled and so on, they will not be able, for example, to carry out assistance or care services in people's homes, because they are once caught up and will probably have to close them in their budgets, these budget holes - regions, municipalities that are social service providers. Therefore, I ask for the support of this particular amendment, which will help at least a little bit to breathe in all social services. What you have prepared further about the housing allowance, there we raise by 3 billion, as I said, but beware, my friends, what has actually been said here today by the speaker Babiš about how families with disabled children work, so that is pure truth. We really bailed on this, I would say, a very limited group of people, I understand that this is not under the scrutiny of this big state budget, which has to go with its branches there and back to special kindergartens and staff. 50 crowns - 50 crowns! - for one litre, it really is for these parents, the vast majority of whom are singles, because we know statistically that in handicapped children, if a problem like this comes into the family, most men leave these families here and leave it all to women. And this is my third amendment, which addresses the budget increase in the framework of the prevention of family policy by only CZK 50 million. So I am going to ask Members to support this third amendment here too, so that we can, for example, deal with these situations here in the breakdown of families with children who are handicapped and who will de facto always have one parent in the future, unfortunately this is statistically so. So I am asking for the support of these three amendments and I firmly believe that this Chamber of Deputies will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u41	I thank you, Mr Member, now Mrs Margita Balaštíková will speak and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u42	Hello, colleagues, I did not want to perform anymore, and I say in advance that the budget is revenue and expenditure, and my speech concerns these two. [[11.20 hours]] Budget, these are mainly money seekers, search for savings, cuts and conversions. But it is often also false data, and I fear that the decisions you have made have not been supported by the correct calculations, the correct calculations. And I mean your government decision yesterday, such an excellent decision to repeal Section 19 in Air Protection Act No. 201 on incorporation of biofuels into fuel. This law has a lot of paragraphs, but it has such two interesting paragraphs, and this is Section 19, which you want to cancel - and you have every right to cancel it, you can cancel it, but you have not informed us that there is a § 20 that cannot be cancelled, and this Section 20 says that the fuel supplier must reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 6 per cent per year. If the Czech Republic does not achieve this, sanctions apply. When the Food Act was discussed here, from among the current Coalition Members, we were all terrified of how we would pay sanctions, how we were against the European Union, what we were doing. And suddenly we do not mind that we in the state register will pay for not fulfilling this condition - and we will not - a one-off penalty of CZK 54 million and for every day we do not meet this condition, 10,000 euros per day. I'm just asking if we're aware of this and if this paragraph has been introduced to you, too. The European Union is looking for alternative sources of oil and oil products to reduce its dependence on Russia, and, in the current uncertain situation, demand for fossil fuels will increase and the price of oil will increase. All governments, really all - and I don't want to believe that all economists and government officials of the surrounding states would be so ignorant and only we were the best and most progressive, it is possible, maybe, but I don't want to believe it - and they are all taking steps for moderate financial situations, despite reducing VAT on fuel, ceilinging PHM prices or releasing state material reserves. That's not what I'm suggesting. What are we doing? We're here trying to rip out our citizens' wallets through excise duty at increased PHM prices. Excellent. So, citizens, your savings are falling, it's not helping you. The citizens are texting me, and I have to agree with them. In the end, economists may have calculated that it would be worse than what the government is about to do. For me, a normal practice, the logic of the matter would be that I'm looking for money and I want to follow the increased sanctions against oil suppliers. So I'm mixing no less or zero, I'm mixing more biofuels to pay the hated oil and oil supplier less and to keep me more in the home stash. So I don't know who counted it, I don't know who made the decision, and I didn't even see what they gave you for that decision. I think any small businessman can count as well as I can because he fights every day to survive on the market. And among other things, my previous speakers have already performed here, so I have calculated that at today's exchange rate of $23.20 we will send the sanctioned supplier 14.97 billion more. I'm talking about 6 percent of the oil that is not going to be replaced by a biosoil. I counted 50 per cent of the bio-folder because, of course, I don't have the perfect data, but it's still huge, huge money. So all businessmen and citizens will participate in this. We pay taxes to throw them out the window like this. And if it were to mix more than 6 percent, 10 percent, then please let it figure out what it would be like to save in the state budget, and then you could give it to the citizens who are in that difficult situation. I like to read the economic expression of economists who have a name. And they write: The step of this government paradoxically can lead to further increases in diesel and natural gas. Excellent. So, citizens, we're not gonna get 52 crowns, so I guess we're gonna have more. Yesterday I read a joke on Facebook when they said, "Excellent! The manufacturers of branded boards have put a price on diesel and petrol, because only 99 crowns will fit there. For 100 crowns, we're not buying it anymore. I can't understand your decision to end the incorporation of a bio-component any other way, like it was some kind of political marketing or whatever it was, and it bothers me because I share some opinions with a lot of you, I appreciate you and I really, really, really regret that when you're looking for money in the budget, you're vacuuming it through the pointless handling of accounts with your imaginary enemy, which is probably Agrofert, or I don't know, and I'm sorry, because that's what you do to all of us - entrepreneurs, citizens, all of us. We're all gonna pay for this hate here in different segments, and it's useless! I don't want to pay for it, and with me, a lot of other citizens don't want to pay for it. They don't want to pay the farmers and they don't want to pay the entrepreneurs. So I am asking you for myself and for those who do not agree with these steps: Be above the thing! Work for this country, for citizens, because we can't all move out. And we don't want to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will now speak with her contribution and Mr Lubomír Metnar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u44	Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, we are now discussing the state budget in the third reading, the first budget from the workshop of the Purple Government, and I must say that this is a bad budget, which we will certainly not support unless it accepts changes. The strangulation of expenditure does not make economic sense and it will be very painful for people. Yes, we're trying to erase at least the loudest cuts. For culture, I want at least 900 million crowns to return to the budget. In addition, through the amendments, I require CZK 350 million in comparison with the government's idea for the cultural heritage programme, CZK 150 million for the programme for the preservation and restoration of cultural monuments, CZK 200 million for professional theatres and symphony orchestras, CZK 50 million for the operation of contribution organizations and CZK 80 million for the equipment of regional cultural facilities. And all of you present, and those in the foyer, I ask for their support. Without it, culture will die, and the people who work in it will rub poverty or leave. It will not be invested in important cultural stands. For example, Ostrava will not have a concert hall for much needed. The new scene of the National Theatre will not be renovated. The National Library will lose money. There's a lot in the game. A country that cheats culture is deceiving itself. The budget is neither anti-inflationary nor pro-growth. He's poser and ruthless to humans. Behind the door is the worst economic scarecrow there is, stagflation, a combination of price growth, zero wage growth and high unemployment. For citizens and the state a very expensive and painful combination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, too. Mr Lubomír Metnar will now prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I will speak regardless of my political affiliation, as I would like to emphasise in advance that it is inappropriate to collect political points in the current security crisis, which wipes out the differences between the coalition and the opposition. I want to stress that not only in our country, but throughout the European Union, defence budgets have been sacrificed for a long time, and they need to be stabilized and increased. This means strengthening one country's own strategic autonomy and defence. In this respect, we are here in the House on an imaginary one ship. I can see from both the ministerial chair and the bench that, in the long run, there was more or less agreement on the issue of raising funds to defend the country's defence, across the political spectrum. Please, let's take advantage of this and increase the military budget. Citizens expect us to, and it is for our citizens. [[11.30 hours]] From this point of view, I would now like to go to the Ministry of Defence's own budget for 2022, and with my two amendments, I want to return the sum of 4.4 billion back to the budget. In my first amendment, as I said, I propose a return of 4.4 billion, or a complete recovery of 5.4 billion, humiliated by the government's already proposed 1 billion, to the Ministry of Defence's budget. We already agree today that these funds will be directed to the operational needs of the military. Specifically, it will be the purchase of ammunition, weapons, armoured wheeled vehicles, chemical vehicles and other means of transport, equipment components, components that the military and soldiers need. We will speed up the implementation of the framework contracts and continue with the new acquisitions. Let us therefore remain with the growing trajectory of defense spending and maintain their gradual growth, continuity and stability, which is essential for the defence resort. Of course, my first amendment includes our government approved unaccredited valorisation of soldiers' salaries of CZK 1,400. As far as the second amendment is concerned, if you do not accept the first amendment, I have also prepared a second amendment of CZK 520 million, which reflects the already mentioned failed valorisation of soldiers' salaries of CZK 1,400. This amendment is, in particular, a signal to the soldiers that they are a beacon of certainty for us and we are fully aware of the jumping cost of living, especially energy prices, fuel prices and more. You know I've been criticizing defense cuts for a long time. To continue these cuts and savings would be inexplicable and very risky. The reduction in the budget from 1.4 per cent to 1.3 per cent of GDP is a bad signal to our partners. Let us increase together the budget of the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and be a strong and reliable partner. I hereby thank all those who decide to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. The Secretary of Defense reports with priority rights. Then Mrs Helena Válková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to comment on the amendments made by the former Minister of Defence, the current President of the Defence Committee, Mr Lubomír Metnar. That one amendment under number 553 cannot be supported on the grounds that the appropriations allocated in the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence chapter for salaries and related staff expenditure correspond to the applicable legislation. It is a government regulation on the remuneration of state employees, Mr Metnar, through the Vice-President, and a government decision on valorisation from 1. 1. 2022. This is the standard under which this is governed, and without the corresponding regulation, the funds cannot be drawn to anyone, so you would read them there, but if the standard doesn't apply, no one could get the funds anyway, so that's a little bit of a proposal that's out of the question. As far as the proposal to increase expenditure of the general indicator Total expenditure is concerned, it is the amendment under number 551, so let me remind you that the day before yesterday on the Defence Committee, we spent about two hours discussing the acquisition of infantry vehicles. We discussed there in very detail the contract and the thirteen months of inactivity of the then Minister of Defense, Metnar. The contract could have been here, it could have been signed, it could have been a contract. So now I'm a little touched that the former minister is proposing to return funds for the acquisition of infantry combat vehicles to the budget of 2022, knowing that he didn't sign the contract, so there can be no drawback in that budget in 2022. Here I would like to reassure everyone that I will do everything in my power to make the purchase of infantry combat vehicles realized so as to make it transparent, and to actually fulfil our commitment to fulfilling that difficult brigade, the 7th mechanized brigade, as we have it in the Capability Targets. As regards the move that we will take as both the Defence Committee and the Ministry of Defence, I hereby inform you that by the end of March we are to receive legal assessment for the next possible procedure and that we will continue to proceed according to this legal assessment. I also suggested to the Defence Committee that, as soon as I get this legal assessment into my hand, I would, of course, immediately get to know my colleagues. So really, even if from the first second we all do everything we have to do, it is illusionary to think that this amount in 2022 will be exhausted for the acquisition of infantry combat vehicles. And I think that funds are really needed elsewhere now. I hope that I have been able to work with this budget by submitting a proposal to the government to increase the budget by 1 billion for projects, for contracts that can actually be implemented. I would also like to assure everyone here that Koudelka's Deputy Acquisition Officer has a contract on his desk at the moment. If the budget and the billion increase are approved, we will immediately move on to a faster drawdown of one of the many framework contracts, and there will certainly not be any loss of funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. Mr Metnar's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that the Minister pointed out that the drawing-up of funds is in line with the regulation, but the recovery and the new decision to increase the valorisation would also be in line with the legislation. Just a quick comment. You did not hear in my speech when I approached the rhetoric that the BVP project could not be done, I was talking about other projects. And to prove that it is possible, you have also used the arms framework contracts and increased the budget by a billion, when I agree to this amendment, I will vote with it, but I have also warned outside the BVP project that there is a whole series of military techniques that need to be speeded up and ammunition supplies and more. It's just to tell the whole truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, too. With priority rights, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u52	Through the Vice-President, Mr Metnar, Mr Chairman of the Metnar Defence Committee, if possible, I would do so. You, as well as on the Defence Committee, have heard the clear position of Deputy Minister Cupáková, who was also your deputy, the economic deputy, who clearly said - and I did not pick her out, which was actually chosen as an economic deputy for your era - that no projects at the Ministry of Defence are at such a stage that the budget would be able to bear an ad hoc increase of 5 billion at this time, that it is possible to do as much as possible up to CZK 1 billion. And that's exactly what I did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. So now, Mrs Helena Válková, who has been duly applied for, will be prepared with his speech by Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I also want to give myself a little bit of a sigh here, and at the same time stress and make further arguments here for the fact that, in particular, those areas of social life, which have always been very important to me, and also as a former Human Rights Commissioner, I have focused on these chapters, I think that in the Czech Republic the general human rights and freedoms, such as the right to the protection of life, that we must not be tortured, subject to some inhuman or cruel treatment that no one must be subjected to or forced to work which he does not want to exercise, as far as criminal sanctions are concerned, so in this respect, the right of expression, freedom of assembly, the right of petition, is ensured enough. But - and since my successor and successor are not yet here, which I think is very, very wrong in this situation, I pointed out to the Prime Minister at the end of November, at the turn of November and December that I would be leaving and resigning, because every prime minister should have his Human Rights Commissioner, then I extended it until 31 January - if I knew what would happen on 24th February, I would have clenched my teeth, and if the government had not pulled me off, I would certainly continue, because the Commissioner should be concerned about it - and that is why I had to argue with both Minister Schillerová and the Prime Minister, and now with the Prime Minister Babiš that the social expenditure must be covered by the state budget to a sufficient extent, especially with the most vulnerable - families with children, single parents, foster care, people with disabilities. Of course, they are also the ones that have been mentioned here, that is, let's say, the lower middle class, those who are fighting for it, and those who are exposed to the great increase in fuel and inflation, so that if they don't maintain their standard of living, at least it doesn't fall too low and that they can, in particular, ensure a decent standard of living for their children or those they care about. Thus, as an agent of the government, I particularly took care of the rights enshrined in the Charter, which relate to the area of economic, social and cultural, because political rights, I think, are well secured in the Czech Republic. And in this context, allow me, as far as the state budget is concerned, to underline the importance of the amendments that Mr Juchelka has mentioned here, which are in Amendments 521, 522, 523, when at least part of the situation in which they find themselves, whether we want or not, the most vulnerable groups of our population, and they are often those who cannot defend themselves. The example he set - children with disabilities - how would they come to this if the government had forgotten them? But that's what he gets his agent for. So let me just make one small remark in addition to the state budget, which should now go around all asylums and check whether national minorities, namely Ukrainian, or refugees, have enough space - but I will return to the state - or have enough space or what is happening there, because such a function has not yet been established. I just hope that the person who wears jeans, boots, in the imaginary sense of the word, will take a look at it, not just the one who can speak well. I'll go back to the state budget. This has been said, and I want to be very apolitical, as my colleague Metnar said, by your means - I really do not care about the endangered groups of the population, whether the proposal is submitted by the SPD, YES or someone from the coalition. Lucie Šafránková has several proposals that quite boldly modify the state budget, but they are in the intensities that she has spoken about, as well as Mr Juchelka, who I am talking about here. So without all criticism and bias, please also think again and correct those budgets in such a way that, at least in part - and I am very well aware that we are far from being able to deal with the situation of the most vulnerable groups - but at least partly the difficult, difficult and largely objectively caused, or somehow subjective failure not yet, make it easier for them. So these are our amendments 521, 522, 523 members of Juchelka, Hendrych, Pastuchová and others, and as far as Mrs Lucie Šafránková's amendment is concerned, I think he is certainly worth your consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u55	I thank you, and we are now reporting with priority rights, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, and we will continue the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I, too, would like to comment on the State budget for 2022, which we will be approving at third reading today. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance is present now, too, and I would like to say that before I get to the amendments of the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to comment on the current situation which is bothering most citizens of the Czech Republic, which is increasing energy prices and increasing fuel prices, that is, petrol and diesel. I really do not understand why the government is acting at the moment and how it behaves and why it does not address the situation. I expected the government to come up with some proposal for a solution to increase energy prices after yesterday's government. I understand that today is certainly a priority of conflict in Ukraine, but we cannot forget our citizens, and it will also affect those people who are fleeing the war and today, according to the calculations or the state, we can already see that there are about 200 000 of them on the territory of the Czech Republic. You know that the YES movement has called an extraordinary meeting here, where the bill was proposed at a 0% VAT rate on energy, to reduce prices within renewable sources that would be taken from the Modernization Fund. This meeting was not supported, the citizens of the Czech Republic had reduced VAT in November and in December we are constantly repeating it here, but I do not understand why the government, which had already received on 25 February from our President of the Alena Schillerová and other Members of the amendment or the bill proposal for a zero rate of VAT on energy for reducing energy from renewable sources within the Modernisation Fund, so I do not understand why, for example, yesterday, the government did not discuss these proposals - it could have sent them here to the Chamber of Deputies, where we could have quickly approved them, and citizens would have had a savings of about 35 percent. I would like to say that at the moment - because I see the members of the government here - they are under the number 158, 154, 153 and again I call on the Government to discuss, approve and send them to the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible. [[11.50 hours]] I was on Saturday, and I was very surprised, I was driving somewhere, I was running Radiožurnal and I was saying: the voice is familiar, because I entered an interview that was going on there, and suddenly I found out that it was my colleague from the Chamber of Deputies, Vice-President Jan Skopeček, who is also an economic expert, and I was very surprised that he, from his position as an economic expert in Radiožurnal, said that by constantly going up so sharply that he, as an economic expert, could see no other way than to go across the VAT reduction. So that's what the economic expert and my colleague say, so I still don't know what to expect. The way I see it, you don't want to accept this proposal just because the last government came with it, but I'd really like to ask you all to step away from it here. We have been elected to defend the interests of citizens, and the situation is really, really serious. So I would like to ask you once again, members of the government, to send these House prints, which you already have in the system to discuss as soon as possible, to the Chamber of Deputies, to approve them and people - just as other states are doing, Mrs Schillerová is saying it today, and there are more and more of them, because they have inspired themselves from us - please, people need to have that energy cheaper, because in a moment it will not be at all bearable for citizens, and they will in no way be able to do it. About fuel, so I have to say that I'm certainly not an expert on this, but I don't understand how yesterday's proposal came up, as I explained to myself, that the biofuels in oil would be cancelled, yes, that there would be savings. And what's the savings going to be? Like the experts told me, the citizen won't feel any savings, and we have diesel, we have petrol, it doesn't concern petrol. So you guys came up with a proposal yesterday that won't bring anything to people, and they'll still have the same, if not higher, fuel price. And that you came here to cancel the road tax? But it only affects entrepreneurs. Where are our single mother mothers, where are our seniors? Where are the other people who don't do business? So you didn't bring them any savings. None at all! And it's really very sad, and I see how negative people feel about it, too, and they expected the government to come up with a solution yesterday. She didn't come up with any! Because if it comes down to it, if we go too far, with the biostore to save, the worst thing is that citizens won't feel it, only companies will feel it. And that's the saddest part about it. That's like how many times we've been trying here, or pushing for it here in the past term, reducing VAT to some things, so how many times we've said to make sure that citizens feel it, and not just carriers or others. So I'm really very sad about it, but first of all, is anyone aware of the current seriousness of the situation? I think the government should act on this matter as soon as possible. You have three laws. Please discuss them, approve them. Please don't be vain that they were presented by the last government. It's for people, and it's very important. And now I would like to express...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u57	I'm sorry, colleagues, but I'm going to ask you to keep the room down, and if you need to discuss, go to the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u58	Vice-President, thank you. Probably the state budget for 2022, I think that this is one of the most important, or I dare say that this is the most important law, and the third reading is all the more important, although I know that much has already been said at first and second reading. I would now like to address coalition, especially coalition MPs, once again in the framework of the amendments to the Ministry of the Interior, because I consider cuts in police and firefighters in the framework of security to be a very irresponsible step. I'm sure many of you know these images from Facebook, which are now, thanks to the situation regarding Ukraine everywhere, where we have shown how firefighters carry all the humanitarian aid, helping the regional aid centres, and we help these firefighters, who help us every day, want to take 1 billion crowns out of the budget. This 1 billion crowns is precisely for the purchase of technology, that is to say tank-vehicle syringes, transport cars, reconstruction of fire-fighters' arsenals. There are several amendments to the fire department. I have also been to the Minister of Finance, and I have asked him that only one amendment be supported, and we have also tried to put more in there as part of the exhaustion of the government's budgetary reserve for these proposals, because we do not only have voluntary firefighters, we also have professional ones. Of that amount of 1 billion, 800 million are taken from professional firefighters and 200 million to volunteer firefighters. I will certainly be watching very closely today the mayors, mayors of individual cities and municipalities, how they will really stand up to the amendments that support and return funds to voluntary and professional firefighters. Who you are, the mayor, you know what an irreplaceable role they have in your cities and villages, and the 200 million crowns, that voluntary firefighter subsidy program just for the renewal of tank-vehicle syringes, the reconstruction of firefighters' arsenals and transport cars, is a drop in the ocean for what they would need in their communities. I said it here at second reading, and I'll do it again. Cities and municipalities, which are around 6 250 in the Czech Republic, have been established or we have in these municipalities for units of so-called JPO 2s and 3s, now run 2,350 tank-vehicle syringes, of which 1,300 are for life, or their lifetime for those 1,300 is more than 25 years. The change that's been going on in those years must continue. When I was the captain, we used to change ambulances every year, five ambulances every year, for example, as part of the emergency services. This can't be over, we have to keep doing this, otherwise it's gonna collapse somehow. There are several amendments to the firefighters - I will find it quickly - and I would like to ask you very much with the firefighters: they are amendments under order number 14 to 24, there are more options, and I would like to appeal to the Minister of Finance that he has the opportunity to choose the option of taking funds from the budget reserve - I think that the signal would be a clear signal to voluntary firefighters, if necessary, and in a way a thank you for the work they have done and are doing. [[12.00 hours]] There is also a proposal to take it out of the increased funds under the EU Presidency, which increased within the Ministry of the Interior by approximately CZK 300 million, and possibly the third option is to take it out of the state debt. So there are these options, and I would like to say that I am putting these amendments together with a very experienced colleague who is in our parliamentary club and which I very much appreciate, and this is Drahoslav Ryba, further with Mr Kukla and Mr Kott. So we have tabled these amendments with them. And I think that Mr. Ryba, who has been at the head of firefighters for many years, so if you need more - and you would not be determined - he will also tell you how very important it is for these funds to be returned to the firefighters in the budget. And then there's the other side and the other two amendments - and they affect the cops. There was a cut of about CZK 1.6 billion, and this mainly affects the salaries of police officers, where even due to inflation police officers will have a lower salary this year than in the previous year, although the government approved an increase from the original CZK 1,400 only to CZK 700. And there we made two proposals to make it budgetaryly responsible. One suggestion is that one billion return, and the other one is that 500 million return. I hope that, in the current situation, the government is aware of the fact that it has taken these funds, so currently there are no financial cover for 4 242 cop tables. This means that if the Regional Directorates managed to get these police officers, they would not be financially covered. Madam Members, and, above all, Minister of Finance, I would like to ask you once again to consider the amendments - I would also like to say that the second amendment is tabled with Mr Mašek, Mr Lang and Mr Králíček, who is touching police officers - and I really believe that it is very irresponsible not to support the amendments that affect those who are saving our lives every day. Please consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u59	Thank you very much. With a factual point, Mrs Válková is registered. And I wish you a good day, my dear colleague. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have some feedback here. Even older people, seniors, are very afraid - and I want to calm them down that our amendments concern social services and institutional facilities, and, of course, in a broader sense, we want to improve their situation. That is my point, and I assume that the Government will be able to respond when the amendments are discussed. Second point. I follow up on what my colleague, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, has said about the transfer of funds to compensate for the costs of the salaries of police officers. I just want to remind you here very quickly how it reacted to the huge migration crisis of neighbouring Germany, which in 2015, 2016 and 2017 moved from its state reserve - and I know that very well, now I don't know if... I would not rather mention the percentage, but it was a huge sum - millions of euro to strengthen the police, because, of course, the security situation has deteriorated in connection with the large migration wave from North Africa. I think that we too have to assume that only 99 percent of those who are refugees in the true sense of the word come to us, but that perhaps the percentage where they will be - and I say this, of course, with exaggeration - maybe increased attention and enhanced security. How are we gonna handle this if we don't at least try to stabilize the police force? I don't know. Fortunately, the government will have to answer that question. But of course we can support... yes. [[Vice-President: Time, Madame.]] We can support those amendments that were just mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, too. We are going back to the general debate. The next enrollment is Mr. Kolovratník. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u62	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Thank you for the floor. And I would like to make a reasonable, reasonable statement on the draft state budget, namely the two amendments that I have prepared. I respect and respect the wording of the Rules of Procedure, and I will also explain that what I am going to talk about a lot is the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which is discussed in accordance with the law as a follow-up point and we will vote on it, and even there in more detail in the debate I would like to comment on a few things, but he is actually part of the overall draft State Budget, namely Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport. I have put two amendments into the budget and I cannot not try and ask you, at least some of you, to support them, because I think they are reasonable, they are non-political and they are in support of transport, not just transport infrastructure, but also public transport. The first amendment under the number of House document 504 speaks - it is not quite at first sight readable - about expenditure, about other expenditures related to the state's transport policy. It is a proposal for an increase of 1.5 billion at the expense of the government debt service. This is the amount that when we scale up, it concerns the reduction in public transport discounts, the reduction from 75 per cent to 50 per cent. I will not hold back any arguments that have already been made by me at first reading and on which the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, as he has said in the public media, can respond logically and completely. It is simply a political decision of yours, which, even if we disagree with it, so we must or can respect it, you have the right to it, and it is clear that the response, the bill will be issued by citizens for it, but I want to say it briefly here. Although it looks nice that the senior will pay only 50 crowns instead of 25 crowns, but especially today it is gaining intensity - I would repeat what many of my colleagues have said: increasing energy, fuel and headline inflation. My colleagues Nacher and Skopeček exchanged a few opinions on inflation, we all know that in short, the prices will be higher and higher and the wallets will be deeper. That is why I think that even the elderly, the most affected, potentially doubling the price of the fare is not good, and I also want to defend it by still talking about promoting public transport. Many of you, and especially in the coalition - I am turning to you now, you are representatives of the STAN movement, i.e. mayors, you are from small villages, from rural areas, not only from large centres, regional cities, but from municipalities which have almost no choice but public transport. I myself was recently on a parliamentary trip in the south, southeast of the Pardubice Region, south of Svitav, in the area of Jevíčka and the municipalities Radkova, Biskupic and so on, there are really no other connections than several buses. That's what's gonna happen to them. Therefore, I would like to intercede here and appeal for the support of my amendment, I have not been here for second reading, Karel Havlíček applied for it, it is House document number 504. And the last sentence that I will support: it is evidently and measurable in statistics from regional integrated transport systems that we see measurablely that demand for public transport has increased by about 5% per year after the introduction of discounts in each region. The increase is simply recorded there. Well, that's one suggestion. [[12.10 hours]] Second proposal, subsidy to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I've already said, I'm gonna be correct and I'm not gonna talk here on purpose, so I don't break the Rules of Procedure, so I don't say what I should say at the very point, but I have to stop here for a moment. As soon as I looked into the Parliament's press 152 to the SFDI, it's sort of vaguely said that, in short, against the original proposal, it's reduced by 3 billion, which, at first sight, everyone can say, 127,6 to 130,6 isn't so bad. But unfortunately, the $3 billion, that's not all. There's a lot more of those reductions. The State Fund had to make a new budget from the pen of Ministers Kupka and Minister Stanjura, who once worked on transport, so he knows it very well, the State Fund also had to involve 3.5 billion of outstanding accounts, go to zero, so we are already de facto u minus 6.5. Estimates have also been increased, and I believe that this can happen, and I also want to be an optimist for transport, another billion toll revenues, tax revenues, we are already at 7.5 billion. Yeah, but yesterday we recorded a media statement from the ministers, a government decision - which I can once again say is your political decision for which you will be responsible - to forgive parts of entrepreneurs, or the essential part, to cars up to 12 tons, to road tax. Yeah, but that's another minus 4.2 billion from the SFDI budget, so suddenly we're at minus 11.7. And I want to justify my proposal here that I really consider it a compromise and a reasonable one. I'm not suggesting that we cut back somewhere and change the budget of a whole 7.5 billion or 9 or those 11, I'd just like to, and I'm trying to return at least the original 3 billion to the subsidy item for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, again compared to the debt service. So only 3 billion I would like to propose. And why am I doing this? I'm gonna remind you of the biggest, loudest moments that really threaten and that we're scared of. It is, and now well, I do not want to say that cancellation, but at least suspension or delay in the time of major modernisation projects on the Railway Administration, on a railway network such as ETCS security on three lines. It's an increase in security. I remind you, and now I turn to you, the coalition MP here from Central Bohemia and Kladensko, the track to Kladno, the end part of Kladno - Kladno Ostrovec for 4 billion already has over a month of envelopes open, the competition runs to the finals, they are not yet found in the budget and will be missing there. Maybe we can help that. Thus, it is only 3 billion in quotation marks, Minister of Finance, through Mr President, at the expense of operating the state debt. I don't think there's a need to justify the proposal any more. I will be optimistic and hope that at least some of the Members who have seen in my speech the transport actions that are currently affecting them, so that perhaps I can find your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. That was Mr. Kolovratník. Mr králíček, Mr. Michálek, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to delay too much, but I wanted to return to my amendments, especially under the number 509, where I tried to increase the budget chapter of the National Bureau for Cyber and Information Security. I am aware of the political reality, I am aware that probably 108 votes overrule my amendment, but I wanted it to be said again that cyber security is quite crucial and will be even more crucial in the future. Consider the condition in which our critical infrastructure is in, and the dangers that we face in the current conflict. It's not a conventional war, but it's a hybrid war, and cyber attacks have no limits. We don't have to wait for some tanks to come here, but we can be occupied by cyber attacks. And I believe that, even with the Presidency, I have chosen a chapter which does not significantly harm the state budget in any way, but actually has a connection, because if we are to preside over the European Union, we should also have this defense secured. That is why I took the 52 million from the EU Presidency's budget, which you will still have to pour into the SACUIB, given that there will be some activities involved in cyber security. I therefore ask once again to consider whether this office would at this point - and I believe that there will be an amendment to the state budget given the circumstances and given how it is developing - but I would not expect that money here in particular, and I would give it to the National Cyber and Information Security Authority immediately so that it can fill its tables. We know that cyber security experts who are willing to work in the government are very few, and I think we're gambling with security. Therefore, even if you have a majority, please consider supporting this amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. The next enrollment is President Michálek. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u66	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear government, dear citizens, allow me to introduce you to the position of our MP. First of all, it is somewhat inappropriate to look at this argument about individual amounts in the state budget at times when bombs fall outside the borders of our closest neighbors, so all the worries that we're dealing with here may seem rather petty. It is clear that the state budget we need to ensure that the state authorities do not work in the provisional, and in particular that we have an adequate and firm basis for our response to Putinův's invasion and other challenges that we have to deal with. The draft budget presented by our coalition was prepared before the war and it is clear that it does not involve changes to laws, with the fact that we are presenting it with all the shortcomings that we unfortunately see in the current setting of certain tax matters, including how and to what extent we tax work versus property in the Czech Republic, and all these matters will undoubtedly be reflected in budgetary measures that will significantly change the state budget's final form. So even though we are talking about a number of amendments now, it is very difficult from the Chamber of Deputies to determine the specific form of the state budget when the government has to respond to a number of operational interests and where it is much better to decide when we have all the information at our disposal than to set it up here and then wonder what reality will prepare for us. Of course, there are also a number of announced challenges that the government must take over from the previous government, where it is necessary to follow up with all the shortcomings or reservations that we can have. But what we agree on is that the state budget, as presented in coalition, has a deficit of CZK 280 billion, and in this we have the unity in the coalition that we want to reduce the deficit of the state budget. The Pirates and the starosta had in the programme that the deficit of the state budget would be CZK 300 billion, so in this respect we have met. This government is much more responsible than the previous government, which presented the state budget with a deficit proposal of CZK 376 billion. That means she wanted to owe our citizens an extra CZK 10,000. We think that this more economical proposal will lead the state to seek savings under pressure in its operation, which we have shown ourselves in the coalition proposals that it also concerns the Chamber of Deputies and the state's top representatives, and that the lower deficit will give us the opportunity to respond better to the challenges that will come. This turned out to be very prudent especially in the context of the war in Ukraine, where we are really ready, there are reserves and options that we can further respond to the future situation, which would not be possible if we were more indebted. Smaller debt means less interest, less pressure to spin rounds of inflation, as well as greater confidence in international markets in the state. I must reject the populist criticism, which in one breath calls for more and more spending and more savings. There are three main challenges ahead, which are, firstly, helping Ukraine, and secondly, addressing the problems of the Czech families that we all see, and I believe that we also share efforts to take care of these issues, and thirdly, the challenges of the future. [[12.20 hours]] In that first part of helping Ukraine defend our freedom, because Ukraine is leading a brave struggle for our safety. I want to say that our government was among the first governments in Europe to offer military material. We really were in this very first, and we did very well in doing so. And even here, in the territory of the Czech Republic, in our cities and villages, helping Ukraine and the citizens who are fleeing it are among the best organized in Europe. Secondly, the problems of Czech families, including the rising prices of gas, which cut off money from family budgets. First of all, it has to be said that when we have a war here, the war has not only a military dimension, but also an economic dimension. And that we are also, although not under direct military attack, we, the Czech Republic and our citizens are in an economic war against the Russian authoritarian regime. Unfortunately, it creates resources for its military aggression in this way, and it seeks to create those resources by increasing gas and other products that are needed for fuel and products. So it is necessary to clearly show that here is the cause of the expensive prizes in the Czech Republic. Again, they were representatives of this government, once again representatives of the pirát, who pointed out the dangers of Russian gas-price machinations, at a time when populists unfairly threw everything at measures against global warming. In this economic war, we must not succumb to that military war. And I believe that both the pirát and the entire government will be allies on our people's side. We have already demonstrated this by what was absolutely necessary, of course - the valorisation of pensions following high inflation. However, I consider it essential, in particular, that part of the higher collection of taxes and other sources and revenues of the State should be used to address the energy crisis. We are working intensively to find a solution that is fair and motivating. The final, final, third heading is that the government's budget is thinking about the future. The coal-negotiated budget and the promises and plans that are linked to it are thinking of a modern state that we need to stick to now so that next summer we can focus on harvesting crops. Digitalisation is ensured, in particular, to start it up and have the necessary funds in the budget for it. The second crucial thing is to work on an expert body so that we really begin to evaluate the efficiency of state budget spending, so that we present modern laws, ranging from a shared economy to a number of other areas where money is still running away or the economy is losing resources as a result of inefficient state regulation. So these are the three main pillars of the state budget for which the Pirates' MP will support the budget in the form in which it was coalically agreed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u67	Thank you for your attention. Mr Juchelka came forward with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor and two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u68	Thank you very much. I must respond to the performance of my previous speaker, an honored colleague of Mr. Jakub Michálek, through you. Trouble for Czech families... So you said in your speech, except that it was a bunch of empty floscules that wouldn't help Czech families at all, that we're in an economic war. Can you specifically tell me what you have done for those Czech citizens when they are in the economic war within this budget with energy and fuel prices, you as pirát specifically? So what is your proposal for citizens of the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u69	A point of fact raised another factual point by Mr Václav král. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. Perhaps it would be good to define what the family is when a colleague here was talking about the effects on families. So I'm not sure if we have the concept of family anywhere defined, but I don't want to break up the debate tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Another is Mr Nacher, who is in fact registered. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u72	I'll surprise you. I didn't want to perform anymore, but I had to do it with my colleague Jakub Michálek because it was the greatest density of phrases and floscules in the last month. I could respond to a lot of things there, but it would probably take more time than I had for my budget contribution. I'm intrigued by one thing, I can't forgive myself. That's the solution to a shared economy. Let me remind you that we had a proposal here. It was you, my colleague, through Mr President, who said in the proposal for Prague around short-term accommodation, that you would prepare about the third or fourth government proposal, so it goes on for an infinitely long time. There's your mayor, you're not even able to arrange it between yourselves, and that's not so many of you. You're gonna say you work hard at it like bees. It's not true. We're standing in the middle of a shared economy on the spot, and it's your fault.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u73	That was Mr. Nacher. Another with a factual application is Mr Juchelka, to whom I hereby give the floor, and Mr Michálek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u74	Thank you very much and I agree with my previous speaker, Mr Král. Sure, if Mr. Michálek here called it trouble for the Czech families, maybe he could really explain it, here's the term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u75	Yes, thank you. Another is Mr Michálek, on the point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor. I would like us to stick to the debate on the state budget. Of course, we could talk about a whole range of other laws that affect and affect the state budget, but those laws really need to be prepared honestly and responsibly. It would be great if we could lock ourselves up for the night and come up with bills that would solve all this, but unfortunately, that's not how it works. To Mr. Speaker Juchelka, through the President, I dare to respond that we have presented our proposal for a so-called energy bonus. It is one of the proposals in the discussion where its parameters can be considered. I'm sure you know very well about this, because Mr. Havlíček was there for you in the discussion. So even Mr. Havlíček heard the proposal, and I think he even complimented somewhere. Secondly, as far as the shared economy is concerned, once again, it was something that we discussed here, so please don't mix it with the state budget. The government said they'd prepare their own proposal. Really prepare a quality proposal in a situation where a short term rentals regulation is being prepared in parallel, where notifications and other regimes across about six ministries need to be taken into account, it cannot be done again in one night. So please, let us not have unrealistic expectations in this area. We are working on it, it is honest and long-term work and we have also said a specific term in the area of the shared economy. The proposal will be submitted to the government in September of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Vice-President Bartošek, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u78	Thank you. Just a quick remark for me. I have seen Mr Robert Králíček's amendment, by your means, Mr President, the amendment has a ratio. I think the NÚKIB needs to be supported. [[12.30 hours]] Here I want to say for myself that if the state budget is updated, the 52 million I think there is nothing to be destroyed, and it is indeed a direction worth supporting, because it concerns the security of the Czech Republic. That means I'm registering it as an opposition proposal. Anyway, it makes sense to me personally, and I hope that it will be taken into account in updating the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u80	Thank you. I'm just gonna be a little short. We, the YES movement, have prepared absolutely specific things that are on the table right now. Renewable energy sources and VAT forgiveness - these are clear and concrete things that can help citizens of the Czech Republic right after we approve these bills here. So far, you have nothing at all, and you're even saying here that you don't even have a deadline for any help at all. You don't have anything in your hand, but people are paying for their energy and their fuel is already behind them, at this point. So please and I want to calm the citizens of the Czech Republic, we, as the YES movement, have prepared renewable energy sources and VAT forgiveness. It can pass now, if it agrees in the next days or from 22 in the House of the Week, when we will all meet here, even the government coalition, with the possibility of discussing these laws. We're specifically ready to help now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u81	That was the last point in fact, I have no one enrolled in the general debate. I'm just gonna make sure somebody doesn't check in? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I shall ask for any final words from the applicant or rapporteur, as appropriate. The Minister of Finance, then. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u82	It's past noon. Have a good day. I patiently listened to the speakers' speeches. I decided I wouldn't react, because in order to refute the half-truths and lies, I would need tens of minutes. So I'm just going to limit myself to a technical assessment of the condition we're in. We are at third reading, we have been given and approved basic parameters of the state budget, the basic deficit of CZK 280 billion. We will vote on 86 amendments in total, 4 of which have passed the Committee on Budgets. These are amendments which are classified as amendments to the Committee on Budgets. 82 amendments were made during the debate at second reading. According to the procedure proposed, we will vote on them in the same order as the plenary, we have not made any changes to this. I just want to point out - I know that many know this, but I want to point out - that the government's budgetary reserve must contain at least 0,3 percent of the total expenditure by law. This means that, at this moment before the vote on the amendments, less than 3 billion, exactly 2 billion 994 million and several thousand are available for possible changes and drawbacks from this chapter, which is the maximum. I will recall the three major amendments to the government's budget reserve, namely 1.5 million to secure a program to help citizens fleeing Putinův's war, 300 million humanitarian aid for Ukraine and 1 billion for the Ministry of Defence to buy weapons. We are in an economic war with Russia. There are Members among us who have been performing with the pro-Russian opinions for years. There are Members among us who have defended Rosatom's participation in the Dukovany tender until the very last moment. We haven't forgotten that, but today is not a day for us to remind ourselves of that. I would like to ask everyone - I know it's hard in this political struggle: don't put our citizens against refugees before the war, don't put them against them, don't use it, hold it. Let's describe the situation of the Ukrainian families. Men fight and we have to take care of and we want to take care of, not as a government, but as a society, as citizens of the Czech Republic, their wives and children, their parents. [[Let's hear it.]] It's that simple. We're in a hybrid war, many of you have talked about it, and many of you know what I'm talking about, and we're also in an economic war. And all of this must be taken into account in these days, weeks, and months. What we really need in the government's opinion is peace, balance sheet, sufficient data and qualified decision-making. I will not be preparing an amendment to the state budget in the coming days and weeks. Today, if it passes, and I firmly believe it does, we have funding for 12 months. Money will not run out in April, May or June. I'm not gonna be walking around with a blank budget, not really. But I am ready, I and all the members of the government, to debate with our opposition how we can possibly change the budget, what we see together as the most important priorities, and I think we agree, at least with the larger part of the opposition: humanitarian aid to those who are fleeing the inhuman Putinův regime, security spending and defence spending. And we're gonna talk about it, we're gonna debate it with you, and I believe we're gonna find sensible, but we're gonna find effective measures. Let's leave the other questions that have been discussed here today to one of the next meetings. I think it's worth the debate, I think we have good arguments about how the government is progressing these days, but I don't want to burden the debate in the third reading of the state budget. That is why I did not respond directly to individual performances. Finally, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, to support the draft state budget for 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur's final words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u84	I'm giving up the final word. I just want to propose a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u85	Yes, then I will ask you to propose a voting procedure for which we will vote. Please, Mr. Chairman, introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u86	I have listened carefully to the debate, it has revealed to me that there is only one amendment proposal, that is from Mr Volný. That's why I'm proposing the following procedure. First, we will vote on Mr Volný's amendment under order number B57, then we will vote on the draft budget committee, as amended by the approved amendments in Annex 2.A, which are available to you individually. Let's start with A1, A2, A3, A4. And now, following Mr Volný's proposal, if the draft budget committee A4 is approved, we will no longer vote on Mr Volný's amendment under order number B57, as he proposed. Furthermore, we will continue with the amendments in Annex 2.B. These are the proposals made by individual Members, as they were presented at second reading, and we will vote them, as the Minister of Finance has said, chronologically, as the Members have applied to them. When we deal with all the amendments, then we will vote on the final resolution of the Chamber of Deputies whether or not the state budget will be approved. If approved, we will continue to vote on accompanying resolutions. This, Mr President, is a proposal for a procedure and I ask you to put this procedure to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u87	Yes. I want to ask if everyone is clear about what the procedure looks like and what procedure will we follow? It seems so, so we will proceed to the vote. First, then, we will vote on the proposed voting procedure on this bill, as the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets has said. I have already begun, I think there is a vast majority of Members in the hall. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 3, 186 Members were enrolled, 181 Members were in favour of the proposal, against no one. The motion was accepted. And we can follow your proposed procedure, Mr President. [[12.40 hours]] Excuse me, I've logged the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. This is President Excellent. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Government, Minister, colleagues. Before the vote marathon begins, I would like to inform all club presidents of the agreement and ask that the vote on the draft State Budget Act be taken as a whole, even after 13:00 until the final vote on the bill as a whole. Committees - because my colleagues begged me to say so - the committees convened, organized, for defence, maybe some others, will meet shortly after the lunch break begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u89	Yes, I wanted to introduce this information to the gentlemen and to the honourable Members, but thank you to the President. We can therefore now proceed to the vote on individual amendments under the approved procedure. I will ask the rapporteur to present the various proposals that we will be voting on. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. We will therefore now vote on Mr Volný's amendment, which relates to his amendment under order number B57. I think that his wording was clear, there was a mathematical error, and at the same time the Volný Member suggested that if the A4 went through, there would be no more voting on his proposal. I don't think it requires any further explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u91	Yes, thank you. I'll ask the plaintiff's opinion. [[- Disagree.]] Disagree. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 4, 184 Members were voted in favour, 84 voted in favour, 96 opposed. The motion was denied. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u92	We will now vote on the draft budget committee. You have Annex 2.A, here are four proposals from the Budget Committee. I will always proceed by reading the serial number, it is the serial number that is in the first left column, then I will identify in the parliamentary proposals who was the petitioner, and I will mention the relevant chapters. So we are now voting on order number 1 of Annex 2.B, it concerns chapters 361 and 333.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u93	I'll ask the plaintiff's opinion: [[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 185 Members were voted in vote number 5, 167 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u94	Order number 2, concerns Chapters 333 and 361.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u95	I beg the plaintiff's opinion. [[- Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of suggesting he push the button and raise his hand? Who's against it? 185 Members were voted in vote number 6, 167 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u96	Order No 3, relates to Chapter 315.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u97	The plaintiff's position? [[- Agreed.]] Agreed. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of suggesting he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 185 Members voted in favour of the proposal, 165 voted in favour, and no one opposed it. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u98	Order No 4, relates to Chapters 301, 302, 303, 309, 358, 359, 381, 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u99	The plaintiff's position? [[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote, asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 185 Members voted in favour of the proposal, 100 voted against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u100	Furthermore, we will continue with Annex 2.B and we will begin with the vote on Amendment 1, which is the amendment by Minister Černochová, concerning Chapter 307, 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u101	The plaintiff's position? [[- Agreed.]] Agreed. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of suggesting he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 9, 186 Members were enrolled, 185 voted in favour of the proposal, and no one opposed it. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u102	Amendment 2 of Mr Turek concerns chapters 329, 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u103	[[- Disagree.]] The plaintiff's position is disagreeable. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 10, 186 Members were enrolled, 86 voted in favour, against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u104	Order number 3, once again Mr Turek's proposal, concerns Chapters 329, 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u105	[[- Disagree.]] The plaintiff's position is disagreeable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to - I'm sorry, I'm opening the vote again, it's already on - who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 11, 186 Members were enrolled, 86 against 99 for them. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u106	Order number 4, a group of Members - please do not address - Kott, Ryba, Kukla, concerns Chapter 329.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u107	[[- Disagree.]] Opinion disagreeable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of suggesting he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 97. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u108	Order No 5, Mrs Maříková's amendment, concerns Chapters 335 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u109	The plaintiff's position? [[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of suggesting he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 13, 186 Members voted in favour of 20, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u110	Order number 6, Mrs Maříková's proposal and Mr Koten's proposal, concerns budget chapter 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u111	[[- Disagree.]] Dissenting position. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of suggesting he press the button and raise his hand? Who's against it? 186 Members voted in favour of the proposal, 84 voted against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u112	Serial No 7, Mr Zlínský's amendment, concerns Chapter 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u113	[[- Disagree.]] The plaintiff's position is disagreeable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of suggesting he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 186 Members voted in favour of 19, against 101. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u114	Order number 8, Mr Černý's amendment, concerns Chapters 329 and 306.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u115	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of suggesting he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 16, 186 Members voted in favour of 20, against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u116	Order No 9, Mr Černý's amendment, concerns Chapters 329 and 306.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u117	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 17, 186 Members were enrolled, 21 were in favour of the proposal, against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u118	Serial number 10, Mrs Pošarová, concerns Chapters 317 and 306.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u119	[[- Disagree.]] Opinion disagreeable. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 18 186 Members voted in favour of 20, against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u120	Order No 11, once again Mrs Pošarová's proposal, concerns chapters 317 and 306 again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u121	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 186 Members voted in favour of the proposal, 19, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u122	Order number 12, group of Members - without further contact - Mračková Vildumetzová, Mašek, králíček, Lang, Brázdil, concerns chapters 314 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u123	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 20, 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u124	Order number 13, again a group of MEPs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mašek, králíček, Lang, Brázdil, concerns chapters 314 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u125	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 21, 186 Members were enrolled, 86 were in favour, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u126	Order number 14, group of Members Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapters 314 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u127	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 22, 186 Members voted in favour of 87, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u128	Order No 15, Mračková Vildumetzová Group of Members, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapter 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u129	[[- Disagree.]] Dissenting position. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 186 Members voted in favour of 87, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u130	Order number 16, Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapters 314 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u131	[[- Disagree.]] The plaintiff's position is disagreeable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 24, 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u132	Order number 17, Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapter 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u133	[[- Disagree.]] The plaintiff's position is disagreeable. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 25 186 Members were enrolled, 85 voted, 99 voted against. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u134	Order number 18, Mračková Vildumetzová group, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapter 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u135	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 26, 186 Members were enrolled, 85 voted in favour, against 96. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u136	Order number 19, a group of Members Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapters 314 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u137	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 27 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 96. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u138	Order number 20, Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapters 314 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u139	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 28, 185 Members voted in favour of 85, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u140	Order No 21, Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapters 314 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u141	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 29, 186 Members were enrolled, 83 for the proposal, against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u142	Order number 22, Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapters 314 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u143	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 30, 186 Members were enrolled, 86 were in favour of the proposal, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u144	Serial No 23, Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapters 314 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u145	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the design, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 31, 186 Members were enrolled, for the proposal was 84, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u146	Order number 24, Mračková Vildumetzová, Ryba, Kukla, Kott, concerns Chapters 314 and 395.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u147	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 32, 186 Members were enrolled, 84 voted in favour, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u148	The serial number 25, Mr Havlíček, Colloverstic, concerns Chapters 327 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u149	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 96. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u150	Order number 26, Mr Havlíček, Colloverstic, concerns Chapters 327 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u151	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 34, 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u152	The serial number 28, concerns Chapter 307, of Mr Vích's amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u153	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 35, 186 Members were enrolled, 21 voted in favour, against 158. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u154	I'm sorry, thank you for the technical meeting. [[The MP was alerted to a mistake.]] We skipped number 27. Please return to this serial number. It is Mr Havlíček's amendment and concerns chapters 328 and 396. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u155	[[- Disagree.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 36, 186 Members were enrolled, 86 voted in favour, against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u156	Serial number 29, Mr Kobza's proposal, concerns Chapter 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u157	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 37, 186 Members were enrolled, 18 voted in favour, against 161. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u158	Order number 30, Members of pokorný Jermanová and Babka, concerns Chapters 334 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u159	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 38, 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u160	Order number 31, Members of pokorný Jermanová and Babka, concerns Chapters 334 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u161	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 39, 186 Members were enrolled, 86 were in favour of the proposal, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u162	Serial number 32, Members of pokorný Jermanová and Babka, concerns Chapters 334 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u163	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 40, 186 Members were enrolled, 85 voted in favour, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u164	Serial number 33, Members of pokorný Jermanová and Babka, concerns Chapters 334 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u165	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 41, 186 Members voted in favour of 84, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u166	Serial number 34, Members of pokorný Jermanová and Babka, concerns Chapters 334 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u167	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 42, 186 Members were enrolled, 84 voted in favour, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u168	The number 35, Mr pokorný Jermanová and Mr Babka, concerns Chapters 334 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u169	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 43, 186 Members voted in favour of 84, against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u170	36, Members of pokorný Jermanová and Babka, concern Chapters 334 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u171	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 44, 186 Members voted in favour of 84, against 97. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u172	Number 37, Members of pokorný Jermanová and Babka, concerns Chapters 334 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u173	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 45 186 Members voted in favour of 65, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u174	Number 38, Mrs Dostálová, concerns Chapters 317 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u175	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 46 186 Members voted in favour of 85, against 96. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u176	Number 39, Mr Dostálová and Mr králíček, concerns Chapters 317 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u177	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 47 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 96. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u178	The number 40, Mr Dostálová, Rabbit, concerns chapters 317, 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u179	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 48 was signed by 186 Members, in favour of 85, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u180	Number 41, Mr Štefanová, Force, concerns chapters 335 and 322.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u181	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 49, 186 Members signed up, 83 for the proposal, against 96. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u182	The number 42, Mr Kettner, concerns Chapters 333 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u183	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 50, 186 Members were enrolled, 85 were voted against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u184	The number 43, Mr Kettner, concerns Chapters 333 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u185	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 51 was signed by 186 Members, for it was 86, against 97. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u186	Number 44, Members Janda, Žáček, Munzar, Kašník, Beitl, Major, Svoboda, Bláha, Salvetr, Havránek, Haas, concerns Chapter 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u187	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 52, 183 Members signed up for 100, against 21. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u188	The number 45, Mr Rais, concerns Chapters 333 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u189	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 53, 186 Members voted, 83 voted against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u190	The number 46, Mr Brabec, concerns Chapters 315 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u191	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 54, 186 Members voted in favour of 84, against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u192	The number 47, Mr Brabec, concerns Chapters 315 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u193	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 55, 186 Members signed in, 84 against 95 for the vote. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u194	The number 48, Mr Nacher, concerns Chapters 328 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u195	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 56, 186 Members were enrolled, 67 were in favour, against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u196	Number 49, Mr Nacher, concerns Chapters 349 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u197	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 57 was signed by 186 Members, in favour of 68, against 97. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u198	The number 50, Mr Nacher, concerns Chapters 336 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u199	I've got Mr. Nacher's aggrieved disapproval here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u200	So it concerns Chapter 396, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u201	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting with order number 58, 186 Members voted in favour of 67, against 118. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u202	Number 51, Mr králíček, concerns Chapters 305 and 304.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u203	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 59, 186 Members voted in favour of 67, against 113. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u204	Number 52, Mr králíček, concerns Chapters 378 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u205	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 60, 186 Members voted in favour of 85, against 91. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u206	Number 53, Hendrych, Juchelka, Pastuchová, Babišová, Dražilová, Hanzlíková and Oulehlová, concerns Chapters 313 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u207	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 61, 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u208	Number 54, Mr Balaštíková and Mr Kukla, concerns Chapters 362, 377.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u209	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 62, 186 Members voted in favour of 83, against 91. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u210	Number 55, Mr Sládeček, Hrnčíř, concerns Chapter 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u211	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 63 was signed by 186 Members, in favour of 20, against 149. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u212	The number 56, Mr Sládeček, Hrnčíř, concerns Chapter 333.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u213	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 64, 186 Members have been voted in favour, 19, against 152. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u214	Number 57 and Mr Polanco Volný's parliamentary proposal. It concerns Chapters 301, 302, 303, 309, 358, 359, 381 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u215	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 65 186 Members voted in favour of 21, against 140. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u216	Number 58 - Mr. Letocha. It concerns Chapters 314 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u217	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 66 186 Members voted in favour of 180, against 4. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u218	Number 59 - Member of Letocha. It concerns Chapters 306, 314 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u219	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 67 186 Members voted in favour 181, against 1, abstained from 4. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u220	Number 60, Mr Šimek, Výborný. It's about...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u221	Sorry, Madam President is voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u222	It happens rarely, really, but I have a "staying" at the high school, even though I voted in favour. I'm not questioning the vote. Just for the record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u223	If I can make the chair the same, I also voted differently, but I do not question the vote. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u224	Number 60. No, sorry, we had that. Number 61... No, I'm sorry. Number 60 - Members of Šimek, excellent. It applies to Chapter 333.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u225	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 68 186 Members are registered, in favour 119, against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u226	Number 61 - Members of Munzar, Skopeček, Havránek, Hofmann and others. It concerns Chapters 334 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u227	Sorry, I still have Secretary Langšádlová to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u228	I just wanted to say for the record. In the vote 66, 67, I wanted to be in favour, and I was against it. I'm not questioning the vote. [[Disagree from the diaper.]] I voted in favour and I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u229	You're not questioning the vote for the record. So I'm just going to ask that we briefly repeat the proposal that we are going to vote on now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u230	It was serial number 61 - Members Munzar, Skopeček, Havránek, Hofmann and others. It concerned chapters 334 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u231	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 69, 186 Members voted, 183 voted against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u232	Number 62 - Members of Munzar, Baxa and others. It concerns Chapters 334 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u233	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 70, 186 Members voted in favour of 180, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u234	Number 63 - Member of the Metnar. It concerns Chapters 307 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u235	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 71 186 Members voted in favour of 84, against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u236	Number 64 - Member of the Metnar. It concerns Chapters 307, 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u237	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 72 186 Members voted in favour of 85, against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u238	Number 65 - Member of Parliament Šafránková, Lesenská, Rozvoral. It concerns Chapters 313 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u239	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 73, 186 Members voted in favour of 23, against 101. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u240	Number 66 - Group of Members and Member Šafránková, Lesenská, Rozvoral. It concerns Chapters 313 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u241	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 74, 186 Members voted in favour of 20, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u242	Number 67 - Mrs Šafránková. It concerns Chapter 313.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u243	Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 75, 186 Members were enrolled, 85 against 94 for them. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u244	Number 68...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u245	Excuse me, Mr. Kaňkovský reporting. Is there a report? He's not reporting, so it was a mistake. We'll erase it. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u246	Number 68 - Mrs Šafránková. It concerns Chapter 313.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u247	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 76 186 Members voted in favour of 84, against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u248	Number 69 - Mrs Šafránková. It concerns Chapter 313.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u249	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 77 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u250	Number 70 - Mrs Šafránková. It concerns Chapter 313.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u251	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 78 186 Members voted in favour of 85, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u252	Number 71, Mrs Schillerová, concerns Chapters 312 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u253	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 79, 186 Members voted in favour of 70, against 98. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u254	The number 72, Mr Špičák, concerns Chapters 335 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u255	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 80, 186 Members voted in favour of 67, against 116. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u256	Number 73, Mr Vondráček, concerns Chapters 336 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u257	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who he is... so the voting device froze... I'll sign you all out with permission. We have to deal with this. Log in with all ID cards. I'll start the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 82, 186 Members voted in favour of 85, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u258	Number 74, Mr Vondráček, concerns Chapters 336 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u259	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 83, 186 Members voted in favour of 68, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u260	Number 75, Members' Group: Juchelka, Hendrych, Pastuchová, Babišová, Dražilová, Hanzlíková, Oulehlová. It concerns Chapters 313 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u261	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 84, 186 Members voted in favour of 85, against 83. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u262	Number 76, Members' Group: Juchelka, Hendrych, Pastuchová, Babišová, Dražilová, Hanzlíková and Oulehlová. It concerns Chapter 313.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u263	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 85, 186 Members voted in favour of 85, against 85. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u264	Number 77, Mrs Lesenská, covered chapters 336 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u265	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 86, 186 Members voted in favour of 20, against 99. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u266	The number 78, Mr Richter, concerns Chapters 362, 396 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u267	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 87, 186 Members voted in favour of 86, against 92. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u268	The number 79, Mr Nacher, concerns Chapters 336 and 396.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u269	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 88, 186 Members voted, 84 voted against 100. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u270	The number 80, Mr Novák, concerns Chapters 304 and 314.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u271	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 89, 186 Members voted in favour of 85, against 85. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u272	Number 81, Mr Heller, concerns Chapters 398 and 301.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u273	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 90 was signed by 184 Members, voting 19 against 127. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u274	The last amendment number 82, Mrs Kovářová and Mrs Krutáková, concerns Chapters 329 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u275	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 91, 186 Members were enrolled, 180 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Do I have two factual applications, Mrs Bělohlávková? Wrong. And Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u276	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just here for the vote. In vote number 43, I voted against, but I have a pro on the high. I'm stating this only for the tapestry. I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u277	You're not questioning the vote, thank you. Anyone else to vote? It's not like that. I will ask the rapporteur whether we can say that all amendments have been voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u278	Yes, Mr President. If there are no objections, we have voted on all amendments. I now ask you to read the final resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u279	Yes, we will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will give you the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, and with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022 under the House Press 144, as amended by the amendments approved under Annexes 1 and 2 to this resolution."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u280	I dare to correct it, Mr President. It's only according to Annex 2. We didn't apply Annex 1, given that the General Treasury hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u281	Yes. So I'm correcting the last sentence, it's just going to be according to Annex 2 to this resolution. It's clear to everyone what we're going to vote on. I guess so. I therefore initiate the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the '92 vote, 186 MPs were signed up... [[Let's hear it for the five-wheelers.]] ...to vote 102, against 84. And I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[13.40 hours]] I now ask the rapporteur to put forward proposals for accompanying resolutions, which we will also vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u282	If so, colleagues, colleagues, hold on. We should still vote on the accompanying resolutions made by Mr Žáček. They're under print 144/4. I propose that we approach this by voting on individual amendments. I will always read one, two, three, and we will vote separately on each of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u283	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. We still have an update - perhaps a Member to vote. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u284	Thank you. I'm so sorry. I voted against. Unfortunately, I have a yes on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u285	You're questioning the vote. And Mrs Babišová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u286	I'm sorry too. I question the vote. I voted in favour, I wanted to vote against, I pressed the wrong button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u287	You also question the vote. Mr. Chairman Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u288	I totally respect the first objection. Just the second objection - I beg you, we can't say "I pressed the wrong button." We can't have the will to match the way I wanted to vote, but we can't say "I pressed the wrong button" here, I'll ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u289	Yes, I wanted to say that the vote is the first performance. We will therefore vote on the objection to the vote. Initiating vote. Who agrees with the objection? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 185 Members voted in favour of 189 and the objection was accepted. [[on board 182]] We shall therefore repeat the vote. I've logged the logout application, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with ID cards. We'll wait for the numbers to settle. I think there is no need to repeat the whole motion for a resolution. We know what we're going to vote on. Since the number of Members and Members has settled, I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 185 Members voted in favour of 99 against 86. The motion was accepted. I note that we have given our consent to the draft State Budget Act. Now, rapporteur, we will get to those accompanying resolutions, and I ask you once again to introduce us to the procedure for adopting them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u290	The accompanying resolutions are three, and the procedure proposed by me is that we read each one separately and vote separately on each one. It's based on the procedure we've followed all day today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u291	Yes, thank you. Is there any objection to this procedure? I do not see one, so I ask you, Mr rapporteur, to introduce us to the various motions for resolutions. Then I'll vote on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u292	The first accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that it give priority to the National Security Office's project on the technological replacement of the Cefeus Information System and the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic in Chapter 308 has ensured the financing of the project for the period 2025 to 2027."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u293	Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? I'm opening the vote, and who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 185 Members voted in favour of 182, no one opposed it. The motion for a resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u294	Second accompanying resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government, in view of the security situation and the forthcoming Presidency of the EU Council, to amend the draft budget for 2022 in favour of Chapter 378 of the National Cyber Security Office, including tables for jobs'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u295	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. Who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 185 Members voted in favour of 173, and the proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u296	The third accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to adjust the budget in the necessary way in view of the current security situation and defence situation of the Czech Republic.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u297	Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 185 Members voted in favour of 161 in the vote with order number 97. The motion was accepted. Mr President, rapporteur, these are all the accompanying motions for resolutions. So we have dealt with all the votes. I have an application here with priority rights. Madam President Schillerová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u298	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just briefly. The YES movement club, the biggest opposition club, kept what he promised, we didn't block the budget. The budget went through, we think there's a better budget than no budget. We even supported the key amendments, as we promised, but I would like to say one thing. We stand by the government, we support the help of Ukraine, but the final words of the Minister of Finance frightened me a little when he said that the budget would last another 12 months. I believe that they will reconsider, because that would mean that our citizens will not be helped in any way, and I believe that this is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u299	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary of Defense, Černochová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u300	I think we've all heard, colleagues, co-workers, by the Minister of Finance Stanjura. The Minister of Finance Stanjura did not say anything like that, the Chairman of the ANO Schillerová Club, through the Vice-President. He said there's enough money at the moment, but he didn't say that he wouldn't change the budget, that he would guarantee that he wouldn't change the budget for 12 months. That's a lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u301	Anyone else applying with priority rights? It's not like that. I'm done discussing item number one, the government bill on the state budget. I'm declaring a break until 2:30 p.m. when we'll continue with the other approved items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-001-001.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Deputies, I am opening this afternoon's meeting and we will continue the adjourned 14th session of the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, I'm going to state how many apologies have gone in the meantime. Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, from today's meeting at 14.30 to 16 hours for work reasons, Mrs Barbora Urbanová today 14.30 to 15 hours - working reasons. Another apology by Minister of Transport Martin Kupka 13.40 to 14 hours for work reasons. Following is the apology of Prime Minister Petr Fiala from 13:30 a.m. to the end of the day due to a foreign business trip. Mr Jiří Kobza apologizes today from 14.30 to 16 o'clock for work reasons. Vít Rakušan, Minister of the Interior, apologizes further from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. Another apology - Mr David Štolpa, today between 14.30 and 15.30 for work reasons. Also today, Mr Andrej Babiš apologizes from 14:30 for work reasons and, finally, Mrs Tatjan Malá, between 14:30 and 19:00 for family reasons, also today. That would be an apology. And now we can proceed with the next item. That should be the point
