ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u1	13. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended / House print 215/ - second reading Mr Marek, Mr Výborný, will make the motion submitted, and I ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u2	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. We are in second reading of the amendment to the Civil Service Act. He was here in detail, I would say very much discussed at first reading, as we did on the board of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I'm gonna leave all this procedural stuff to the rapporteur because that's her job. For a group of drafters of Members, I would just like to briefly summarize and recall the basic outlines of this small amendment to the Civil Service Act, because indeed, and I can confirm it here for the entire government coalition, we are counting on the fact that the 2014 Act ultimately, I think, after some consensus with the opposition and here across the Chamber of Deputies, requires quite a deeper intervention, which will be prepared over the next months and next year, so that is certainly to be expected. Now we only respond to the most fundamental things that are problematic from our point of view. If I were to sum this up, it is, of course, a question of simplifying and accelerating the process of entry into the public service, where by the steps that we propose in this brief or small amendment, we will extend the circle of persons who may participate in the selection procedures. At the same time, we are speeding up some deadlines, which means that the tender will have to be announced within 120 days of the vacancy, it will have to be completed within 60 days instead of today's deadline, which I suspect is 90 days, etc. So that's the first circle of things that we're dealing with and that were introduced here at first reading. Another thing that may have raised the most debates and discussions is really setting a clear line, a clear limit, where the political leadership of individual ministries and ministries begins and where we remain under the public service, where we will therefore be at the level of those who will represent the Ministry at the level of professional leadership. Today I'm just going to remind you, the state under the 2014 Act is unclear in this sense, because we have political deputies here, we have specialized deputys here. We all know that, on the basis of the current political situation, people who act as deputy politicians will always be infiltrated to some extent. Now I'm not saying it like it's a complaint, it's just a fact that it is. And another thing, of course, the duties and duties of the Deputys should bear together the position that this person is in. It is not happy that, in the political role of the Minister, for example, the Minister represents the political role of the Minister of the Chamber of Deputies, and so on. These are things that we consider to be not entirely happy, and therefore, in the proposal that we have before us and which we are discussing, we propose a strict unification that the Minister brings his team with him, and for which he bears full political responsibility, that is, a team of deputy ministers. We won't even have political deputies, we won't have professional deputies. It will simply be a team of deputy ministers, who, together with the minister, will be politically responsible for the department, and of those current specialised deputy ministers, we will transfer them, or they will become directors, senior directors of the section, and will actually fully fulfill the role that the Civil Service Act gives to persons under the Civil Service Act. So I think it's probably the most important point that we've also introduced here at first reading. There will be a clear definition of the role of political and professional. Of course, we are fully aware that this change is a systemic change and applies regardless of which government is currently ruling, but we believe that the Minister, who is politically responsible for the relevant department, also has the right to assume full responsibility for the team, in this case the team of deputy ministers that will bring with it. So much for the main outlines of the draft amendment to the Civil Service Act. Of course, in our opinion, this should lead exactly to what we are accused of being opposed, not to politicizing, but to depoliticizing the state service, because it will be clearly stated where the border is. That is why we are talking about making what is still unclear here clear, obvious, firm. There will be depoliticisation of the state service itself. Another important principle I would like to recall is the introduction of regular re-competitive or if you want to re-contest. We are introducing a five-year term for the position of leaders. We believe that it is not happy and it is not reasonable for the state administration to be concreted in its own way and that, in the position of the leaders, the person concerned is de facto to death without being under any, even by direct pressure, that the position will be subject to recompetitiveness under the tendering procedure. We think there should be a similar principle here, as with school directors, for example. Even with school directors under school law for a number of years, after six years, there is a six-year term, there is the possibility that the founder, and let's honestly say that the vast majority of the founders actually approach it and write the re-tests, because it is right and important. Even in the civil service, this will not take place otherwise, so that the director concerned, although he is excellent and great, can defend his position to update the vision, the direction with which he came to this position. That's how it should be in the civil service. There shouldn't be any definites, but there should be an interest in making it more comfortable after five years, so that there is more competitive, so that the person can defend his position, or vice versa, so that the position of the superior is open to other, perhaps more suitable candidates. So that's the thing that we consider very, very important, too. I don't want to discuss the law in detail, because it was discussed here in the end, discussed at first reading. I only put out things that I consider to be the most fundamental and important. Perhaps let me just remind you that, between the first and second reading, the promised consultations took place with the largest opposition party, the YES movement. We have met repeatedly over their suggestions, which here at second reading in the system are already included. We believe that there are some contact areas where we are able to agree on some things. It is clear that they too have experience in governance, and on some things at this moment I can also declare agreement across this Chamber of Deputies, for example, with the amendment of my colleague Táňa Malá, where the fiction of delivery is. There we agreed on some compromise solution for 5 days, so it will not be those proposed by us 7 or the original proposal for 3 days, but 5 days. That's what we think is already carrying a certain ratio. We have also heard calls for this now, after the law has been passed, and it will become effective when there will be a re-competitive process at the level of the leaders, at the level of both the heads of the sections and the Heads of the Union, so that we will extend the time limits so that all state authorities can do it without any enormous intervention into the operation of those authorities so that we extend the deadline to the level of the Heads of the Union from 18 to 24 months and some other details. [[12.20 hours]] So I'm just saying that there's a certain degree of consensus on some points here, and that we've been trying to do it responsibly. We do not oppose any further debate between second and third readings according to which amendments will be read today and to which Members will sign up. So much for me as for a group of submitters. Thank you and I will listen carefully to your speeches both in the general and in the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House press 215/2. And I ask that the rapporteur take the floor of the constitutionally-legal committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, informs us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u4	Yes, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on 22 June 2022, the constitutionally-legal committee addressed the following resolution: "After the justification of Mr Marek Benda's proposal group, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová's report and after the constitutionally-legal committee debate, I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal; II. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following amendments and additions to this bill: In the title of the law, the words "and Act No. 150/2017 Coll., on Foreign Service and amending some other laws, the Foreign Service Act, as amended by Act No. 35/2019 Coll.", 2. after the introductory phrase of the Act, the first part, including the title, is inserted: "Part One - Amendment to the Civil Service Act," 3. The second part, including the title, is inserted: "Part Two - Amendment to the Foreign Service Act, Art. III: V § 42 para. 1 of Law No. 150/2017 Coll., on Foreign Service and on the Amendment of Certain Other Acts, the Foreign Service Act, the words "the Deputy Director" shall be replaced by "the Chief Director," the words "the Deputy Director" and the words "the Deputy Director" shall be replaced by "the Chief Director," 4. III is replaced by Part Three, which includes the title: "Part Three - Efficiency, Art. IV'; [[1.]] III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; IV. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this draft law at a meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations." So much for the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. As regards the proposed amendment made by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, only the terminological merger took place in the Foreign Service Act in such a way as to follow up on the Civil Service Act. There are no other changes. I would also be the first rapporteur to join the general debate. I will therefore end up as rapporteur for the information on the constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Before we go any further, I'll read an apology. Today, Minister Michal Šalomoun apologizes from the meeting from 12.15 to the end of the day for work reasons. I just want to ask. President Okamura is here with priority rights, and I want to ask whether I can open the debate, then you will be given priority rights, and then you, rapporteur, because the President has applied earlier? [[The rapporteur agrees.]] I therefore open a general debate in which I register an application with the priority right of President Okamura and then with the priority right of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a government amendment to the Service Act. Let me sum up what Petr Fiala's government is proposing here. In the government coalition of Petr Fiala, their fellow party members are so hungry for troughs that here in the House of Government MPs are pushing for strength through opposition to the change of the law of service, so that instead of the previous several civil servants, ministers will be able to take on an unlimited number of political deputys and the vice-president will be completely abolished. So far, the minister could only have two political deputys, so now that citizens have no money and also the state budget is in deficit, government ministers in each ministry will be happy to employ completely unnecessary five, perhaps even more political representatives from the party sides for 100 to 150 thousand crowns a month. And government parties are already impatiently waiting for these places, because it's a coalition of ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates, so it's a huge hunger for those places. Everything gets cheaper for the citizens, the government doesn't deal with the expensive, which is why the parties are already waiting for these places to just suck on these public money lines. So it can be combined by hundreds of unnecessary government political friends, plus those employed in ministries, and all paid by citizens of the Czech Republic from their taxes. I think that many citizens must be sick of Petr Fiala's government, and I think that is another reason for you to resign. I'll tell you what the current situation in the Czech Republic is today, because you guys are really from Mars. According to 84 percent of citizens, Petr Fiala's government is quite inadequate in preventing the increase in poverty. Moreover, 65 percent of citizens fear the decline in their standard of living and poverty. Eight out of ten people already have to limit their needs because of high energy and fuel prices. This results from a few days old current STEM survey. So again, according to 84 percent of the respondents to this survey, the ODS government of Petr Fiala is quite inadequately preventing the increase in poverty. The cabinet's efforts to prevent the rise of poverty are considered sufficient only 16 percent of the people, and here you are dividing up other political newsrooms for your political, party friends and for your minions here to anchor them to the most lucrative places in the state administration. It's a normal politicization of the state administration as stitched up, and it's completely unacceptable what you're doing here. If you hadn't put this moment here in the amendment to the Service Act, that means you're putting these political brokers in there instead of the Deputys, then a number of other points are there to discuss. Yes, by the way, I was the only one who voted against the new Service Act when I joined the House in 2013. The YES movement, including all parties, voted in favour of it. I was pointing out that he should have, that it was good for the minister to marry various co-workers, because in order to be fully responsible, I was the one who said so, and I was the only one who voted against that time. But the way you guys took it today, it's basically just about the political brokers at the Deputys' place, so it's definitely, that's no one, that's not how I intended it at the time. So you guys came running out of business by passing a service bill that doesn't suit you today. I understand that these ministries can be a little harder to follow, especially when there are less capable ministers who are neither competent, but what you're showing here is that you're actually putting only political deputys and unlimited numbers in there, so that's a really scary, scary display of arrogance of power and how to drain public money, but in the worst way. Moreover, as I say, the threat of poverty and the need to limit its basic needs most severely affect seniors and citizens over the age of 60, of which 89 percent say in STEM's survey that it must be greatly reduced. But you guys are splitting up your own outrageous political newsrooms. In a May survey at the same STEM agency, half of the respondents said that they were not taking account of current incomes and that they were experiencing a deterioration in their domestic budgets. [[12.30 hours]] It's a disgraceful card. All of this, what you are doing here, the catastrophic action of the Fialův Government and your government coalition, which absolutely does not address the difficult social and economic situation of Czech citizens and families, and for its priority within the Presidency of the European Union, is to divide between yourselves and the newsrooms, as well as the financial assistance to Ukraine and Ukrajinec instead of helping Czech citizens with the expensive. The seriousness of the situation has only one effective solution: the resignation of this incompetent and harmful government, which is, moreover, heavily burdened by the criminal corruption scandals of the STAN movement, which are also growing into other parties to the government coalition. Here I would add a quote from the latest interview of the former Minister of Culture for the Stan Besser movement, who has been Minister since 2010, and in an interview for the List website two days ago, said that the defendant and already closely prosecuted by Michal Redl, was from the start since 2009 with everything that was going on in the STAN movement, and he is the closest associate of the mobster and criminal Radovan Krejčíř. So the STAN movement has been intertwined with organized crime since the very beginning, which means Redl - Polčák - Gazdik, these three people are mentioned by your former minister, who has been a minister since 2010. And I think that this is indeed a completely unsustainable situation, that the government of Petr Fiala, the whole five-calice, is holding a party in power that is part of organized crime, and I cannot imagine a closer way to working with organised crime than we read here, for example, from your former Minister for the Stan Besser movement. But back to this. If I add and underline this, it is really outrageous that in a situation where you refuse to deal with the price increase, when millions of people in the Czech Republic are getting into financial distress, you are here brazenly and unscrupulously wanting to divide an unlimited number of the most lucrative political traders. I'm really sick of this, and we're just not gonna support this in the SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u7	Your performance brought up two factual points. The first will be Mr Marek Výborný, as another Mr Hayato Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just very briefly. We have heard the political speech of the opposition party's chairman. He was full of lies and half-truths, so let me just respond to two things. Please, nicely, there is no position of political deputies in the amendment, it is necessary to read it. The amendment introduces the Deputy Minister's position. Period. There's no political deputy, there's no newsfighters, there's gonna be an expert team of the minister who's gonna run it. On the contrary, those who today are often quasi-specialist deputys with different political contexts and contexts will be transferred fully under the responsibility of the Civil Service Act and will become senior directors of the sections. That's how it is. I understand that, of course, this can be used very easily in the political struggle by creating stories of sheep's grandmother's fairy tales and so on, but it really isn't true, what was said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u9	Thank you. Next, Mr Hayato Okamura will appear, Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u10	Dear colleagues, the situation in our society and on the international scene is really serious. No one can deny that there is a difficult economic situation, that electricity prices, gas prices are increasing, that this affects the socially weaker part of our citizens. But I would like to remind you that, for the most part, this situation is caused not by some mistakes in the current government, but by an international situation, by the Kremlin aggression against Ukraine. This is a striking fact, so I want to set the record straight with what he said through the President, my brother, President Tomio Okamura. And I want to remind you that no matter how they try to deny it, it was the SPD, which has been running pro-Cremel politics continuously for a number of years. They objectively supported the Kremlin with their opinions and acted against the European Union, against NATO, against the strength and integrity of the family of democratic states and nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u11	Thank you. Next, Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak with her point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u12	I would like to respond to Mr Excellent, as he expected, through Mr President. So when you say they're the experts, yeah, and they're gonna be the minister who's gonna be there with them, so I hope you're gonna treat this as the deputy professors that's been approached now. That means you're gonna give them a background check that I have, so they're gonna have a background check, hopefully! they're gonna get it done. How is the responsibility of the Minister, Mr Ambassador, through the President? [[To the Excellent Members.]] That's the responsibility of saying he's not a political deputy, is he an expert? The deputy professor, of course, what it did, what he had to do, so the deputy, if he remains an expert deputy, he has to do it too. It's not like we're gonna create some kind of warm place. So, of course, now you're going to demote those senior executives to the senior director, which the last government, the senior director, was just interrupting to save money in the apparatus, so the current senior executives were also senior directors at the same time. Now we're creating another structure, we're creating another structure, so it's going to cost the state administration a lot more money, a lot more. When I read into your beautiful material, which you call a novel, it says that the minister can determine how many professional deputys he has because they remain professional when they're not political, as you say. Well, of course, the way he put it, as many sections as he has, of course, each section will have its own mirror, it'll be the expert political deputy, let's face it, not professional, but political. So if I do the systemization because I have a shortage of sections, I'm gonna make those sections, so I'm gonna actually end up with ten, fifteen of those political deputies. And just for example, so we know what we're talking about, I had under me... [[Your time!]] I'll sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u13	Alternatively, we can agree whether you are still reporting with a factual remark, please, no one with a factual remark is logged in, I will give you two more minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u14	So thank you for saving me the way to the counter, or the place. Mr President, if you want to insult me, please press the button and we can talk on the microphone here. Well, you said something about talking, like... [[A Member of the Excellent defends himself: Not a word.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I heard you talking. No, I'm not hysterical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u15	Then I'll beg you in peace! Don't shout at yourself. I will press you two minutes again to give you enough time, Madame, and I will ask you to communicate only on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u16	I'm not hysterical, Madam Secretary. I'm sorry, I really only overheard this, and I heard it, so I'm sorry. I'm sorry, is that okay? I'm sorry. I just wanted to tell the story that I have, which means when I was in the ministry, I had seven or six directors under me. At present - it was done by an expert deputy - currently three Deputys do it, currently my work is done by three Vice-Presidents. Let's call them political experts. That's the result of what you're presenting here, so I don't think it's gonna be a benefit to the civil service. But I will, of course, take my contribution further. And I'm begging you to tell me about me here whether I'm hysterical or not hysterical. I saw your performance, Madam Secretary, and it wasn't very nice either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u17	I understand lunchtime is coming up. I'm gonna ask you to hold on to the merit of the matter. This applies to all debaters, to all debaters! Now, with priority rights, the rapporteur, Ms Ožanová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u18	Thank you, Mr President. In view of the number of amendments I will justify, I wanted to break this down a little bit into blocks. But before I begin with the amendments, I would like to say that the negotiations actually took place as Mr Marek the Výborný said. Of course, we're only trying to soften the proposal, and we'll see what we can do after the deal. However, I also believe that the proposal is not entirely happy, but I will not repeat what I said at first reading. [[12.40 hours]] I will move on to the amendments. So now, to Amendment 941, which I put together with Members Helena Válková and Taťána Mala. According to the draft law, the five-year term of office for all the heads of departments shall be five years. This extends the circle of leaders who are appointed for a fixed period. The same post may be held repeatedly during successful completion of the selection procedure. If another tenderer is selected in the selection procedure, the former superior shall not cease his service and shall be transferred to another suitable post of service. The date of entry into force of this Act, according to the proposal submitted, will be assessed by the delegates their five-year term of office from the date of appointment, namely retroactively. If they were appointed more than five years ago, the term for their appointment shall expire on the date of entry into force of this Act. To that end, I would like to quote from the explanatory memorandum to point 4 of the transitional provisions of the draft law: "In the case of the occupation of a post of service by the Head of Service, the Head of Staff or Section Director, the Personnel Director of the Civil Service Section and the Director of the Department, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the proposed Act, it is not a general re-competitive activity. It is necessary to declare the selection procedures in a gradual and prudent manner, with the timetable being the responsibility of the service bodies and, respectively, of the members of the government.' I would like to point out that the need for gradual and prudent tender procedures is only in the explanatory memorandum, but is not included in the draft law. For this reason, together with my colleagues Helena Válková and Taťána, I am proposing a Mala amendment to fill the explanatory report of the Act on gradual and prudent recompetitiveness by allowing proper preparation for such a step. This would not take place until five years after the effectiveness - I stress - of parliamentary, not government amendments to the law. The adoption of this proposal would make it impossible for immediate political cleansing to be carried out at most levels of administrative authorities. By shifting the beginning of the term of office to the date of the entry into force of the draft parliamentary law, the government coalition would be free of suspicion that it is more about massive purges than about the quality of the state administration. So much for design number 941. Now, on Amendment 943 - once again, this is my amendment, Mrs Helena Válková and Mrs Taťána Malá. The draft law amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended, sets out the objective "to establish a term of office for all the leaders, with the exception of the heads of departments, in order to promote the maintenance of an adequate level of new incentives and approaches at the strategic level of public administration management. The introduction of the term of office is considered by the petitioners as an instrument to strengthen the political neutrality of the public service, as the frequent replacement of persons in the leading positions precedes the creation of clientelistic networks and is also an important element of the professional development of a civil servant, who acquires insight into other areas of government and develops his expertise. A time-limited term of office may contribute to increasing the motivation of existing leaders for personal development.' As well as the considerations which led the petitioners to identify themselves, it is not possible to disregard the risk that the regular re-competitiveness of almost all groups of senior civil servants will lead with it, especially in the form of potential destabilisation and politicalization of the state administration. These are two events that the European Commission has also warned about in the past and that were just the adoption of Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service. It is clear that, in addition to the flexibility required by the regular change in political representation, it is also necessary to ensure that its activities are continuity, so that they do not always occur with the expiry of the term of office, or after five years, to end existing processes and plans of strategic and conceptual development and to replace them with processes and plans by new ones, only because of the replacement in the leaders of the departments concerned, without the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of such changes being adequately assessed. Where the main objective is to prevent the creation of clientelistic networks, the professional development of the staff member and to ensure that the public administration authorities concerned exercise their competence within the limits of legality under the current political mandate, it is sufficient to establish a term of office only with the Supreme Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, the Personnel Director of the Civil Service Section, the Head of Service, the Head of the Section and the Director of the Section, who can then supervise the effective exercise of the duties of the immediate superior from his position and, if necessary, initiate the adoption of a staff adjustment measure. At the same time, in the case of the two lowest groups presented, the long-term and stable performance of the state administration will be ensured under the current guarantee of protection against excessive politicalisation of their activities. Amendment 943 essentially states that there is no need to compete with lower levels of proceedings. Amendment 944 - once again it is my amendment, Mrs Helena Válková and Mrs Taťána Malá. The aim of Amendment 944 is the possibility of anchoring each minister with only four deputy ministers. In fact, the submitted draft law repeals the existing rule of law, according to which each member of the government can have only two political representatives. At the same time, the deputies' proposal from the existing Deputy Ministers for the Management of the Sections - the so-called Vice-Presidents who are in service offices - is made by the Chief Executive Director. These senior directors are to continue to manage their sections, and they are to continue to be authorised to represent a member of the government at government meetings as well as in committees or commissions of the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Their de facto status as Deputys, including pay grade and other benefits, would remain without further. However, I will mention that if they are senior directors and so on, in accordance with the Constitution, they will not be able to represent, for example, at the meetings of the Committees of the House of the Minister, because it is clearly stated in the Constitution that only Deputys can do so. If there is a renaming, these experts will not really be able to represent the Minister or the Minister. The parliamentary proposal complements these experts, which are now called senior directors of the sections, with a further level of leadership in the form of an unlimited number of political representatives. In its end, a draft by which the sense and purpose of the Civil Service Act are thereby circumvented would mean that the departments will be occupied by the directors of the trade unions, senior directors, the vice-chairmen, and an unlimited number of government representatives operating outside the service to the office, i.e. the representatives of the purely political, non-professional, who each member of the government will be able to change at any time at the beginning and during his term of office. In addition to radical politicisation of the state administration, the proposed proposal would result in an extreme and completely unnecessary increase in the cost of managing administrative authorities from the state budget. It is absurd that this government has declared since the beginning of its reign how it will save on the state administration, but it is it that has set up additional and other positions since the first day in office. As soon as the Office of the Government was taken over, for example, there was an increase in the number of employees by 74 persons. These were two new ministers and their personal apparatus. More and more increases are now being planned in the management of resorts. These new Deputys will, of course, be entitled to appropriate offices, secretariats, cars with drivers, representation expenses and, last but not least, high salaries and regular rewards. On each resort, this proposal would result in a huge increase in expenditure from the state budget every year. So much for the three amendments that I have now tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u19	Thank you. And now we will continue the general debate according to the duly registered debate, and I will ask that Mr Jan Jakob speak first, as the next one is Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Mr. Jakob, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I have signed up to justify, in substance and in brief, the simple proposal I am making. It concerns a minor omission, which we have forgotten in the proposal, and concerns the main health care professional of the Czech Republic, whose status is regulated by a special standard, namely the Public Health Act. Of course, this function is also affected by the amendment to the Civil Service, because the main health care professional himself falls within the public service. The amendment consists of a simple adjustment in such a way that a new part of the law relating to the Act on the Protection of Public Health is supplemented and in it § 80 para. 8 shall be replaced by the words "Deputy Director" and the first sentence of this paragraph shall read as follows: "The Ministry of Health shall establish the post of Chief Hygiene of the Czech Republic, who shall be the Chief Director of the Section under the Civil Service Act." Thus, even in this special arrangement, the regulation of the Civil Service Act will be reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Just for the record, I am saying that, under the agreement of the Presidents of all the Clubs, I will then declare a break between 13 and 14 o'clock for lunch, only calling for the speakers to be logged in. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u22	I would like to follow up freely, or respond to Mrs Ožanová, who spoke here about the amendments. I'm really wondering if the reason message or RIA, I'm sure there was one submitted - I'm not saying that you went to the maximalist one, that means everyone's gonna end up in the pool, but how much is it really gonna cost? I'd really like to know how much all these ministries are going to cost if they all go into that pool, I'm counting on them to be replaced, and I'm sure in this tender, as I would say, they're not going to defend their posts, so they're going to end up in the pool for six months, which is 80 percent of their salary, and then you're going to have to give them sales according to the law, under Section 72 paragraph I think 2, I'm not quite sure right now. And I would be quite interested to know how much it is to quantify, because the reason report, or the impact study, the RIA, had to be processed. And even if you were doing the minimalist and maximistic, I'd be interested in some kind of gold center, about what it's gonna cost, if the submitters could answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u23	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, who is now duly signed up for this debate, will speak properly in the general debate by Mrs Renata Oulehlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u24	Thank you, Mr President. After a short break, I'm going back. However, I would follow up on my colleague, Berenika Peštová. This is a parliamentary proposal in this case. If it were a government proposal, we'd probably see that figured out. However, I would like to read on the microphone what is in the explanatory memorandum on the bill: "The proposed legislation does not have a negative impact on the state budget." Well, given the increase in the number of Deputys, I don't think this information in the explanatory memorandum is true. The increased number of officials will not affect the state budget - only if someone does not receive remuneration, that it would otherwise be saved in the Ministry, but I believe that this is not true. And perhaps it would be good if this law became effective, to look at how it affected the budget. It would be very interesting and I look forward to it because I have a good memory, and I will definitely do it in the future. Now, to the amendment introduced under 1021 in the system. It is the amendment of Mrs Klára Dostálová, Alena Schillerová and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. The draft of the law comes with the elimination of the period for which it is possible to demonstrate the necessary practice for the appointment of the degrees presented. It is clear that the proposal is motivated by the removal of too binding conditions for open selection procedures, which can potentially disqualify experienced candidates for the superiors without objective reasons, only by the fact that they have acquired the necessary experience in a period earlier than the time for showing qualifications. This objective can be understood and supported in principle. However, the proposed change completely abstracts from the fact that it is important not only whether the required practice has ever been achieved in the past, but also whether the level of skills and experience achieved is still up to date. Not only the private sector, but also the state administration is characterised by a number of activities requiring a high level of professional erudition and qualified management. Therefore, it is not from the point of view that the test of topicality is embodied precisely until the determination of the maximum period during which the practice can be relied on. If the current period of 8 years, 6 years for union directors and 4 years for the heads of departments is still suitable for achieving the objective pursued by the legislator, an extension of 15 years, not for an unlimited period, as is in the draft law. This will potentially extend the number of candidates to those who would otherwise be disqualified without a legitimate reason, while maintaining the requirement of the actuality of the practice achieved. So much for Amendment 1021. [[13.00 hours]] Now, on Amendment 1022, once again, this is an amendment by Members of Klára Dostálová, Alena Schillerová and Zuzana Ožanová. This amendment is very simple. The aim of the amendment is to extend the period during which it is necessary to announce the selection procedure for the position of Chief of Staff of the Civil Service Section and the position of Director of the Department from the proposed 18 months to the duration of the years, i.e. 24 months. The extension will allow the service authorities to break down a large administrative burden associated with the compulsory re-compete of the senior staff and will ensure further continuity in the agendas they lead by at least a few months. I would just like to remind you that one of the proponents of the bill, Mr Marek Výborný, spoke on this issue in his own words, which he had already foreshadowed, that this could be agreed with even the proponents of the bill. Now, on Amendment 1023, this is also an amendment by Members of Klára Dostálová and Zuzana Ožanová. The aim of the amendment is to anchor every minister's ability to have at most as many deputy government members, i.e. the so-called political vice-president, as there are in the Ministry of Senior Directors of the section, that is how many sections are in the ministry. If it is a member of a government without a ministry, the number of its deputy may be up to two, as is the case under the current effective legislation. The submitted draft law repeals the existing rule of law, according to which each member of the government can have only two political representatives. At the same time, the deputies' proposal from the existing Deputy Ministers for the Management of Sections, the so-called Vice-Presidents, who are in the service offices, is made up of the Chief Executive Director.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u25	Madam, I apologize for entering your speech, but as I announced some time ago, under the agreement of Members' Club Chairs from 13 to 14, I am declaring a break, with the fact that when the time taken for a break is over, you will continue your speech. Thank you for your understanding, and I'm declaring a break within 14 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14 o'clock, so we will continue our negotiations. We will continue with the proposal of Members of Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended, House Press 215, we are at second reading. We interrupted the discussion of this point before the midday break. I would like to ask Mr Marek, Mr Výborný, to take the position of rapporteur at the rapporteur's table, as well as to ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Yes, they're both sitting there. We will therefore continue the interrupted general debate in which these Members came forward, or before the interruption, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová was to speak, and I am asking her to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u27	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I've already started my performance before the break, now I'm going to continue. I ended up representing the amendment by Klára Dostálová and Zuzana Ožanová, which is recorded under number 1023 in the system. Since I was able to read about two or three sentences, I would like to actually state it completely for the sake of completeness. The aim of this amendment is to anchor the possibility of every minister to have at most as many deputy government members, i.e. the so-called political vice-president, as there are in the Ministry of Senior Directors of the section, that is, what is in the ministry section. If it is a member of a government without a ministry, the number of its deputy may be up to two, as is the case under the current effective legislation. The submitted draft law repeals the existing rule of law, according to which each member of the government can have only two political representatives. At the same time, the Bill of Deputies makes the existing Deputys the Director of the Management of Sections who are in the Service Offices. These senior directors are to continue to manage their sections and continue to be authorised to represent a member of the government at government meetings as well as in committees or commissions. On this point, I would like to point out that, although the explanatory report of the bill states this, it is contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, because a member of the government can only be represented by deputys. So I think that maybe that's why we're going to need a large number of Deputys. The parliamentary proposal complements these experts, which are now called senior directors of the sections, with a further level of leadership in the form of an unlimited number of political representatives. In its end, a deputising proposal thus circumventing the sense and participation of the Civil Service Act would mean, in its entirety, that trade union directors, senior directors, i.e. technical representatives, and an unlimited number of government representatives operating outside the service to the office, i.e. deputies of purely political, unprofessional, who each member of the government will be able to change at any time at the beginning and during its term of office. In addition to radical politicisation of the state administration, the proposed proposal would result in an extreme and completely unnecessary increase in the cost of managing administrative authorities from the state budget. It is absurd that this government has declared, since the beginning of its reign, how it will save on the state administration, but it is it that has established, from the first day in office, more and more places for its faithful. As I have already mentioned, for one of the previous amendments, immediately after taking over the Office of the Government, there was, for example, an increase in the number of employees by 74 persons. These were two new ministers and their personal apparatus. There are now other and even larger increases in the management of the resort. Of course, these new Deputys will be entitled to offices, secretariats, drivers, and, of course, I assume they will be paid not to do this job for free. At each resort, there would be an increase in expenditure from the state budget by tens to hundreds of millions per year. So much for Amendment 1023. In its essence, it also follows in its own way the remark made by Mrs Berenika Peštová, by your means, Mr President, concerning the fact that the explanatory report on the bill does not deal with the costs incurred by the adoption of this bill. As I found out, it is assumed that there will be no costs, which doesn't make any sense - if I have more people, I need money for them. Amendment 1024. This is an amendment by Mrs Klára Dostálová and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. The aim of the amendment is to anchor the possibility of each minister to have only five Deputy Prime Minister according to the current terminology of the political deputy. The submitted draft law repeals the existing rule of law, according to which each member of the government can have only two political representatives. At the same time, the deputies' proposal from the existing Deputy Ministers for the Management of Sections, the so-called Vice-Presidents, who are in the service offices, is made up of the Chief Executive Director. These senior directors are to continue to manage their sections and continue to be authorised to represent a member of the government at government meetings, committees or commissions. However, I have already spoken twice about the fact that this is contrary to the Constitution and will not be able to comment further. The parliamentary proposal complements these experts, which are now called senior directors of the sections, with a further level of leadership in the form of an unlimited number of political representatives. In its end, a draft by which the sense and purpose of the Civil Service Act are thereby circumvented would mean that the departments will be occupied by the directors of the trade unions, senior directors, the vice-chairmen, and an unlimited number of government representatives operating outside the service of the office, i.e. representatives of the purely political, non-professional, who each member of the government will be able to change at any time at the beginning and during his term of office. In addition to radical politicisation of the state administration, the proposed proposal would result in an extreme and completely unnecessary increase in the cost of managing administrative bodies from the state budget. As I have said before, it is absurd that this government has declared that it will save on the state administration and, in its essence, does not want to save on it, it wants to spend more money on it from the state budget, as I have already mentioned. This concerns increasing the number of ministers and, of course, the apparatus. At this point, I have all this on these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u28	Thank you. Mrs Oulehlová is next in line and I see Mrs Peštová with a point of fact. So I want to ask if there's a factual point? A real point by Mrs Peštová. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u29	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. She did not only declare what was said here, but declared that she would not go the way of the paquilas - we were already saying that there would simply not be proposals for the law or amendments to the law as they are currently presented, that is, they will not go into the interdepartment, or first the internal commentary procedure, then the interdepartment, through the Legislative Council of the Government all the way here to the Chamber of Deputies. So basically, I haven't been answered how much it's gonna cost because I think it's gonna be incredible money. [[14.10 hours]] I would like to take advantage of the fact that the Minister of the Interior is sitting behind me here, and since I know that this law has been put into a proper legislative process and has been withdrawn from eKLEP and then another way has been found, that is, that Members have adopted it here and Members have submitted it as their MP, so I would like to know how the Ministry of the Interior, when it has inserted eKLEP, and I know that when I put something into eKLEP, I am demonstrating the amendment to the law, the explanatory report, the presentation report, and, of course, the impact study, whether the Ministry of the Interior has calculated how much it will cost, even if I know that Members have adopted it. And thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u30	Thank you. That was Mrs Peštová's factual point. It will now be Mrs Oulehlová's turn in the general debate. However, before that, I'm gonna load up my apologies. From today's 31st meeting, from 12.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, the Minister of the Interior apologizes to Rakušan, and from 14 o'clock he cancels his apology from Mr Navrátil. We are now in the general debate. Mrs Oulehlová, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u31	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read here the amendment by Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová, which is recorded in the system as Amendment 1035. The draft law amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended, aims to establish a term of office for all the leaders, with the exception of the heads of departments. Such a procedure cannot be agreed with because the regular re-competitiveness of the senior civil servants leads to an increased risk of potential destabilisation and politicalisation of the state administration. These are two events that the European Commission has also warned about in the past and that were just the adoption of Act No. 234/2000 Coll., on Civil Service. It is clear that, in addition to the flexibility required by the regular change in political representation, it is also necessary to ensure a certain degree of its activity so that it does not always occur with the expiry of the term of office, or after five years, to close the existing processes and plans of strategic and conceptual development and to replace them with processes and plans by new ones, only because of the change in the leaders of the departments concerned, without the efficiency and efficiency of such changes being adequately assessed. Where the main objective is to prevent the creation of clientelistic networks, the professional development of the staff member and to ensure that the public administration authorities concerned exercise their competence within the limits of legality under the current political mandate, it is sufficient to set up a term of office only with the Secretary-General, the Secretary of State, the Personnel Director of the Civil Service Section and the Head of Service, who can then supervise the effective exercise of their duties from their position as immediate superior and, if necessary, initiate the adoption of a staff adjustment measure. [[A superior?]] At the same time, the long-term and stable performance of the state administration under the current guarantee of protection against over-politicalisation of their activities will be ensured for the expert groups presented. I would also like to make a proposal for an amendment to Mrs Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová, which is recorded under number 1036 in the system. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The following point 46 is inserted after In Article 74, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 (h) No 70 is replaced by 75. Justification: The Civil Service Act provides for termination of service by tax. These include the achievement of the age limit of 70 years, when the service under § 74 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) ends automatically by law." This method of termination of service includes the Civil Service Act since its adoption. The provisions in question specifically modified the situation of the heads of representative offices, but otherwise remained unchanged at all times. The reasons which led the legislature to set such conditions for the performance of the public service cannot be clearly established. The explanatory memorandum to the Civil Service Act merely refers to the fact that an increase in the age limit from 65 years in the original law to the current 70 years is linked to the increasing age needed to qualify for an old-age pension. However, the average age increases annually. The life of people in the Czech Republic is gradually extended by several months each year. According to the analysis, 260,000 people over 60 worked in 2010. Last year it was 458 800 65-year-olds and older people accounted for 2.8 percent of the employees. In 2010, it was only 1,5 %. Between 60 and 64 years of age, there were 3.8 percent of employees ten years ago, and this figure was an average of 5.9 percent a year ago. Of the people over 65 years of primary education he worked approximately every 45th, among seniors it was approximately 13th and almost 5th among university students. In particular, many older workers remain working in the administration. If the government's aim is to support the work of people of retirement age, extending the legal limit for the automatic termination of service is a logical measure. At the same time, this would exploit the economic and knowledge potential that these workers have in the working environment, navigate and prove very useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u32	Thank you so much for the show. I will just point out that you have spoken in the general debate, and as far as amendments are concerned, we need to speak in a detailed debate and sign up to them. This sounded more like a speech in a detailed debate. This is the rapporteur with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u33	Thank you, Mr President. As part of the discussion that was here, I thought that I would look into the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies after all. I learned that there should also be economic impacts. The proposed report should indicate the effects. I would like to quote it precisely - negotiations on drafts of the law, it is § 86 para. 3: "A part of the bill is an explanatory note that justifies the principles of new legislation. " It's okay. "It shall assess the legal situation in force and explain the need for a new regulation in its entirety, the general part and the individual provisions, the specific part." It's okay. "The draft report shall also include the expected economic and financial scope of the proposed adjustment, in particular the state budget, regional and municipal budgets." [[14.20 hours]] So if we go back to the draft bill submitted, we can see that the proposed legislation does not have a negative impact on the state budget. I don't know if it's a claim, if it's a negative message. Now, what is it, negative? Does that mean that if we get more money to put it up, that's not a negative impact? Well, I thought in general awareness, the more it costs, the more negative it gets. So I thought I couldn't assume it wasn't a negative impact. So once again: "The proposed legislation has no negative impact on the state budget." Really, is this the justification for the scope of the proposed budget adjustment? I don't think so. For example, there are budget claims, I understand that. What's negative? I really don't know. And if anyone believes that increasing the number of people working in offices means that there will be no impact on the budget, I really think that is wrong. I therefore argue - and I would like to hear the House's legislation on this as well - that I believe that this submitted parliamentary proposal does not meet the conditions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, even if I have heard from the petitioner here that he believes that it meets. For me, then, if I read what is written, it does not comply with § 86 para. 3, really. The proposed legislation has no negative impact. What is this, please? So will it have any impact on the budget, or won't it have an impact on the budget? I really don't know. It should be recalled here, if this proposal was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, that there was a similar problem when the proposal was made from the Pen of the Ministry of the Interior concerning the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and so on, there was also a lack of justification. It was a government bill, and it also absent the justification for this economic and financial impact, when it was written, as far as I remember, that it had already been written on the original bill, which was two electoral periods before and where there were several variations of budgetary impact. That was the whole introduction of the financial impact. So I believe that the draft laws that ignore the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies should not be based on the works of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u34	However, there is no procedural proposal from your performance just to be clear. Okay. Mr. Výborný wants to respond to you with priority rights. Madame Malá will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Mrs Ožanová, through Mr President, several comments. First of all, it sounds beautiful out of your mouth. It was therefore, by the way, the ANO movement, which brought in 2014 by the hands of Members, by the hands of Members, a parliamentary proposal for a new service law. Let us consider this, first of all, when we are here now criticizing that not a major, big amendment to the Service Act. I can assure you, my colleague, through Mr President, that the big amendment to the Service Act, which is urgently needed - we also agree with the Secretary of State, Mr Hůrka, and others, and I think that when I had a debate about it with President Schillerová, the President of your parliamentary club, we also agreed on it - of course that the big amendment to the Service Act will go through the standard process as we are repeatedly accused of not doing it with this little amendment. Yes, we didn't. We have come to an agreement that it is precisely to ensure that this brief amendment to the Service Act, if we want, is discussed as quickly as possible, even with regard to the expected or anticipated - I do not want to say the word obstruction, but let us say the lengthy discussion and debate, the debate, that is legitimate, I do not deny, here in the House - that is why we have gone the way of the parliamentary proposal, which was consulted by representatives of the Government. In that case, if it is a parliamentary proposal, look at your proposals when you present them, I want to ask if any of the proposals of the YES movement contain RIA? Well, it doesn't, because it's a matter of government patterns, not the MPs. So that's this thing. Exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the paragraph that you quoted here, my colleague, - I believe 88 - is in our proposal, paragraph 7 in the explanatory memorandum containing the projected economic financial impact. You quoted that sentence here. So it's really there, and it's based on the fact that the bill doesn't define the final outcome anywhere. At this point, no one can presume whether, for example, in some departments, the number of deputies will even decrease because, for example, the number that is still there would be redundant. So the options are really open at the moment and will depend only on the individual departments and ministers, as they will then proceed. So it's hard to call for a financial impact to be quantified now. By the way, here's the sign in the bill's drafts that it won't affect the state budget, that's for many others. Now I can think of the first good, for example, the Act on Special Ways of Stopping Enforcement, the so-called Grace Summer II. This also has a zero impact on public budgets, the state budget, and precisely this wording has been stated in the law. So I understand the question or the reminder, but I think that's how we explained it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u36	Thank you. Mrs Ožanová is reporting with a point of fact. Your two minutes, madam, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u37	Thank you, Mr President. It would be sufficient to state that there will be costs of overcompetence, and it is possible that some ministries will have reduced costs, some of them will be increased. But the phrase that they will not only be the negative effects is really not quite accurate and is not in the spirit of § 86 para. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. As for the little amendment, you know, the problem is - I wasn't here in 2014 - but I don't know that the ANO movement, for example, has in its government's programming statement that things relating to the government's programming statement will only be presented as government bills. Please, you've got it there. In the government's programming statement, you have that even changes to the Civil Service Act are your priorities. I understand that you have signed this as the presidents of all coalition clubs, as one of the lawmakers has already mentioned, Mr Benda, but I still believe that you are denying yourself when you have something in the government's programming declaration and then do otherwise. That means you have there that you change the Civil Service Act, and you have there that all the things that concern your programming statement will go exclusively as government bills. Excuse me - I always say it so very gently - I can read it and I actually read your programming statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u38	Another factual point by Mrs Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u39	Thank you for the floor. I was laughing at that brief little novel. I'd take it if it was a brief little amendment and it really concerned the deputy. Okay, you have trouble with the Deputys, there would be an incision and you wouldn't be interested in the directors, you wouldn't be interested in all the levels that are lower. I would understand that she's a brief little amendment, because the others will follow a service law that doesn't change. They're people who follow a career order. We're not gonna tell each other what you're in the ministries, so you know what it is. They come from a reporter, they have certain motivations that lead them to gradually rise in the state administration, because that's where the career order is. But you've made an incredible incision, so there's no motivation for them now. Your little brief amendment demotivates them in its essence because they don't even know how the competitions are going to take place because they're not two-wheeled anymore, they're already one-wheeled. [[14.30 hours]] So you guys totally devalued it, totally devalued it. Now you're saying it's a brief little novel. That's ridiculous. It's really ridiculous. I'd really take it if you did an incision, we're talking about how many of these political deputys are going to be, if there's two, four, six. I understand that. But what you're doing is simply politicizing the state administration. That's not your deagrofertization I'm hearing all the time, that's normal government policy. And this is exactly what the European Commission blamed you for with the career order, or in 2014, the European Commission blamed that this must be removed, and you're doing it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u40	That was a factual point. We will return to the general debate. I'll have Mrs. malý, please. In the meantime, I'm gonna load up an apology. Today, 12. 7. 2022 between 15.15 and 17.15 Mr Kolář apologizes for reasons of work. Well, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I, too, would like to comment on the proposal tabled. From my point of view, it is actually possible to divide it into several main groups or circuits, partly based on the declared objectives of the amendment, which are in the explanatory report, whether it is the simplification and acceleration of the process of entry into the public service, or the extension of the persons who may participate in the selection procedure for the senior directors, the replacement of deputy directors for the management of the section, the introduction of the term of office presented or the abolition of the maximum number of deputy members of the government. With regard to the first heading, the simplification and acceleration of the process of entry into the public service, I have some fundamental comments on this proposal. As regards the proposed amendment concerning the modification of the selection process of the vacant job pursuant to Section 24 et seq. of the Civil Service Act, according to the explanatory memorandum, it is intended, in effect, to accelerate the selection of civil servants without affecting the transparency of the selection procedures, and as a fundamental argument it is necessary to exclude the selection procedure from the scope of the second and third parts of the administrative order, which is justified by the case law of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, under which the selection procedure under the Civil Service Act is not administrative procedure under the Administrative Code. If we look closely at the Supreme Court case-law, we will find the following, namely that the legal nature of the various stages of the selection procedure, carried out under judicial protection, was dealt with for the first time by the Supreme Administrative Court in its judgment of 9 November 2017. It stressed in particular the different character of the first and second stages of the selection procedure. Clear objective and relatively specific requirements are laid down for the selection of the most suitable candidates in the first stage. The conclusions of the selection panel may be called into question by means of objections pursuant to § 164 para. 4 of the Civil Service Act. In the second phase, on the other hand, the law leaves the choice to the service body which chooses the only and most suitable candidate, and the law does not limit the choice in any way, so long as we take into account the reservation of the need to obtain the immediate superior's consent. The service body can thus look not only to the expertise of the candidates, but also to their personality and character characteristics. In that judgment, the Supreme Administrative Court dealt with the legal nature of the notification by which the Service Authority informed the only most appropriate tenderer selected by the Selection Commission that it had not been selected in the second stage of the selection procedure, i.e. that the service post had not been filled in the procedure. It assessed this act from the point of view whether it fulfilled the formal and material characteristics of the decision within the meaning of Article 65 (1) of the EC Treaty. The Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction in the case-law referred to in paragraph 1 of the Administrative Rules of Procedure. From a material point of view, he pointed out that the applicant does not bear witness to the public subjective right to be chosen - if that were the case, the notification would have to be reviewed as a decision. The Civil Service Act provides the Service Authority with a considerable degree of freedom to choose an appropriate candidate. The Service Act is not bound by the recommendation of the Selection Board and may cancel the selection procedure and announce a new one regardless of the number of most suitable candidates. The Supreme Administrative Court also pointed out that in the past, in a number of cases where the applicant did not testify to the right to obtain a specific authorisation or, more generally speaking, to be entitled to a result, it concluded that the applicant had the right to respect the procedural rules of the institution in its procedure, in order not to apply the procedural rules, in order to make a similar decision and not to infringe the prohibition of discrimination on similar matters. The judicial review is then limited to compliance with these general rules. However, the Court of First Instance may examine whether the procedure of the administrative authority is sound and non-discriminatory only if it has any clear rules on the outside. Procedure of the Service Authority pursuant to § 28 para. However, there are no rules governing compliance with or compliance with the Civil Service Act which could be reviewed in proceedings before an administrative court. From this, the Supreme Administrative Court concluded that the notification of the applicant that he had not been selected does not meet the material characteristics of the administrative decision. He pointed out that, even in employment relations, the choice of a job seeker is within the competence of the employer. The only limit is the prohibition of discrimination in employment relations, which is regulated in § 16 para. 2 The Labour Code, which applies in the light of Section 98 of the Civil Service Act as well as in service relations. The means of protection against discrimination are contained in Section 10 of the Anti-discrimination Act. I think that it is clear from this that, under the current legislation, the service body is no longer bound by scrubbing or rigid rules when selecting civil servants for posts, so I believe that there is no valid reason for this fundamental loosening of the rules. With regard to the next point, which is the simplification and acceleration of the process of entry into the public service, the reduction of time limits in the selection procedure should be. This means that the application for submission of applications is to be reduced from 10 days to 7 days. Although it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that this is the last time limit, which may be fixed even longer, I believe that this will clearly lead to a further encapsulation of the state administration, as it will certainly be widely used in practice, which threatens widespread clientelism. Nor does the attempt to establish the fiction of delivery on the third day against the normal ten. However, here, Mr Výborný mentioned that there is an agreement on this change that should be adapted. Perhaps we can agree and the five-day deadline will be voted out, for which I thank you. With regard to the third series of amendments, it is the replacement of deputy directors for the management of the section by the senior directors of the sections. There are the following comments. We learn from the explanatory memorandum that this is a critical part of the Civil Service Act and that this situation needs to be settled. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 of the Constitution, and it is said that there is one type of Deputy Minister, a Deputy Member of the Government who performs the tasks of being dependent on political will. Just to remind you of Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 Constitutions: It states that a member of the Government is obliged to attend a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of its resolution. This also applies to meetings of a committee, commission or committee of inquiry, but where a member of the government may be represented by his deputy or another member of the government, unless his/her personal participation is explicitly requested. On this basis, it can be argued that, despite the declared need for representation of political will in accordance with that Article, it is proposed that Article 9 (2) (a) of the Treaty on European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty') be amended accordingly. 8 of the Civil Service Act has been admitted that a member of the Government may provide that the Head of the Section is entitled to attend the meeting of the Committee or the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, including the commission of inquiry, unless a member of the Government is specifically required to participate in a meeting of the Committee and the Senate Committee. In this provision of the Civil Service Act, there is therefore repeated legislation under Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 of the Constitution and amendment are proposed to change the Deputy Head of the Section for the Head of the Section and, at the same time, the legal fiction of a member of the Government for such a case is to be enshrined. [[14.40 hours]] I wonder what the necessary change is. If it's just in terminology, in this case, the head of the section will present political will, or what will it be? The reasoned report is very contradictory in this, and we can ask ourselves what is really behind this change. A partial answer to this gives us a term of office for the senior director of the section of five years. The point is, then, that we will humiliate the current section chief executives and send an ominous signal to the state administration about uncertainty, because it is nothing more than to try as soon as possible to re-instate these posts, of course under a different name than the deputy, by loyal people. This is clearly reflected in the second paragraph of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 4 transitional provisions where such performances will be considered to be fixed-term civil servants whose running began on the date of appointment of the civil servant to the senior official and will expire at the earliest on the date of entry into force of this amendment. The above is also related to a very subtle change in Section 173 of the Civil Service Act, when the sentence behind the semicolon is to be released in the second paragraph, and that is the sentence when a member of the government may have a maximum of two such Deputys. This is a cancellation of the upper limit for the number of Deputys of a member of the Government. It's been pointed out here repeatedly. According to the current wording of the Civil Service Act, it was possible to have up to two political representatives, so it seems that the circle is closing. We will go back a few years, and we will once again politicize the government, because lovers of old order have learned that some civil servants are not loyal enough. As far as the explanatory memorandum is concerned, we will only learn so much from this that it is proposed that a member of the government may have a maximum of two Deputy Ministers. This cancels the limit of number. The number of deputy members of the government is not specified, is variable in time and according to the decision of the member of the government according to its current needs and needs of the Ministry and the volume of tasks. In my opinion, these are non-speaking phrases that can be hidden by various intentions, but the real ones offer themselves. What can not be forgotten is the way in which the explanatory memorandum has dealt with the assessment of the compliance of proposed legislation with European Union legislation - just a laconical statement that the proposed measures comply with European Union law and the current case law of EU courts. The basic parameters of the service do not change in a way that would be incompatible with EU law. There was no evidence of the European Commission's view of these changes on access to civil servants and public administration. Is there really a political representation behind the increased subordinates of the state administration, is the European Commission really in agreement with this? I dare doubt it. In view of what I have just said here, I will justify my three amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. The first is the amendment by Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Válková and mine, which is changing, postpones the effectiveness of the proposed amendment to the Act by one year, i.e. from 2023 to 2024, on the grounds that administrative authorities will need to prepare for the implementation of the major and fundamental changes presented in practice. They will need sufficient time, which they would certainly not have had if this legislation were effective as proposed. The second amendment is also a Member of Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Válková and Taťána Malá. There is a retention of at least a ten-day deadline for submitting applications to the selection procedure, as currently contained in § 164 para. 1 of the Civil Service Act. I consider this deadline to be reduced to seven days to disproportionate. In my opinion, this would not allow applicants sufficient time to prepare applications and documents for the selection procedure. And the last is the amendment of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Mrs Taťána Malá, which concerns the delivery of fictions, which has already been mentioned here, which should actually be from number 5, from number 3, which I consider to be an unacceptable deadline, at least to that compromise number 5. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u42	Thank you, Madame. Have a good afternoon. I've taken over the meeting. And before Mr Richard Brabec, who is next to the general debate, approaches the counter, I shall make an apology, namely Mr Roman Bělor apologizes today between 16 and 17.30 due to the hearing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, there is room for your proper application. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u43	Thank you for the space. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to apologize in particular because in my last speech, I mystified you when I said that the government coalition has a lot of mothballs and little titties. I was correctly alerted on social media that a sucker isn't the right organ to say it should be a snout. So I'm repairing myself, and I'm saying that's the way it is with mammals, that coalition just doesn't have enough titties, because we took them out at the ministries, but then he's got a lot of noses that would like to get sucked in. And I'm not changing that. It caused it, of course, because it is always very, very interesting for journalists, so - yes, certainly some zoologist pointed out to me correctly that there isn't quite a place for a sox. [[Laughter.]] But when we get back to the matter, I think it best describes the situation, because our experience, and my relatively long, almost eight-year-old, from the functioning of the ministry clearly shows that it can be perfectly managed by the existing system, i.e. without creating the next layer that is being created by your proposal, i.e. the layers of senior directors still under the service law and the new layers of the Deputys, whatever their names, political or professional, in your case, only the Deputys. So it is quite indisputable that it is being created there, a completely new group is being created, and as has been said here many times today, which naturally will bear significant costs. I think it's indisputable. And I don't think it's a coincidence that the RIA doesn't contain it, or it's not here, because you'd have to admit it. All the more so, if there isn't really a limited number of deputies, I also think it's totally intentional. And it creates room for bringing your people there, which I'm not questioning. That minister should be able to bring his people in. But again, the existing Deputys or the existing Deputys, and it has already been said here, of course they had their duties, whether it was security clearance and a whole range of other things, trials, service and so on, and they were really put on high demands that clearly would not be placed on new Deputys. So this is something that will undoubtedly mean an increase in the cost of resorts, and probably not just there. And if we look at how this is handled today, then, of course, there are some ministerial councils, the top ministerial council, the department director, the union director. So now they'll be chief directors, and there'll be a layer of several above them, I'll deliberately say a few Deputys. And now that I see what's going on in those ministries compared to our austerity version -- because I, for one, I've already said it here, he didn't have any political deputy. I am convinced that I didn't need one, because the technical deputy was able to perform the role, and I didn't basically - I had one counselor at the beginning of the whole time, and then no advisor. When I see the situation today with the noses, not the moths, they're really increasing in a geometrical line. So it's time for you to openly admit that it's about, of course, weeping as many people as possible from that political party, because a large majority of them are coming in politically somehow aligned, and they need to be created. We didn't have this need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u44	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and Mrs. Berenika Peštová is next on the list. Mr. Jan Hrnčíř can prepare himself. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u45	Thank you for the floor. So I dropped the factual notes and waited really for the proper discussion or for my performance. I think maybe the original idea was right. I understand that every minister who comes to the ministry needs to have some sort of apparatus around him that he trusts and knows he can lean on them. I understand that. The idea that was right at first, in essence, went in the right direction. This means that the law gesture prepared an amendment to the law and wanted to put the amendment into the ordinary legislative process. All the way to the right place. It was put into a proper legislative process, then in a mysterious way there was about half an hour and it was withdrawn from eKLEP and actually the ones involved - the individual ministries, and not only ministries, they are also others, they are also other organizations that are linked to the Ministry, namely the environment it is the Czech Inspection, they are the departments of the administration and others, because they are in the position of the directors, that is where you are touching, or the amendment you are touching - so they did not even have the opportunity to express themselves. And I can see why it was downloaded, right, even if the pirát said how transparent you're gonna be, that you're not gonna go this way in your life, and you're not gonna do this thing, even like they did historically, because you're the new fresh wind, and you're actually gonna put it all together. And now all of a sudden, you've done something even worse, much worse, because when it goes through the ordinary legislative process, it has the essentials to have it, that is, it has the reason message, it has the reference report, it has the impact study. That's the kind of study that we're thinking about here, and we're saying how much it's going to cost our taxpayers. That's what you've been saying all along that you're here from not letting the government swell, because you won't let it, and you'll be the ones who say you'll narrow it down, that you'll just clean it all up, you'll do the deagrofertization that I don't understand where you'll be doing, because I don't know anyone from Agrofert, except the minister who was political. And I'm saying it was good up there, and suddenly it just went wrong. You downloaded it from the eKLEP, you gave it to a few Members, and the Members put it here. It's perfectly logical that it must have caused some sort of disorder that caused it. And by not really being in that ministry, and I know that the order of careers is there, that there are officials who are really there from that reporter - now it's not under the new law a referee, right, now they're called the board - and they're just really having a vision of progress, and that's why they stayed at those ministries because they knew that he had the option, or his option is that he'd get out of the reporter to the head of the department, from that department manager he can get to the head of the department - and now the possibility isn't that, because that's why your amendment, what you did, instead of two, you're actually doing a one-wheel selection procedure, it means you're opening it up to everyone, and you're not opening it up in the first round to those officials who can move from individual ministries, so you're actually shutting them the way and motivation to do your job at all. I don't even want to live to see it - because now I've experienced how hard it is to get really qualified officials - to stay on those ministries. And now they're losing the motivation, so the officials are gonna leave and they're gonna do it to people who don't even have aneung on it. And that's what bothers me. There's one thing that bothers me. Every clerk, even if there's five, ten, fifteen years, has a history. And he knows exactly when you're talking to a clerk about what the Minamat Convention is, he's going to say to you, "Yes, this treaty in 2012 was blocked by that and that and that and that and that and that." And now all of a sudden, the history isn't there, because that information isn't going to be passed on like that. It really isn't easy, you're at those ministries now, and you know and you're experiencing it. I see there's a maximum of two ministers here now - but I'm sure you know you'll always come to the clerk and ask questions and want to know the history of it. And now all of a sudden, there's gonna be people from the outside who don't know anything about it, but we're just gonna open it up, and instead of the two, we're gonna do unicycles. That's one of the things that bothers me. Next thing you know, what I said here in that de facto remark. I understand you want to have your management there, I understand that, but why interfere with those levels of government? Why are you doing this great politicization that you're getting politically active people there because they're somehow attached to you? That's wrong. That is why the Commission wanted it to be separate, so that it wouldn't happen here to politicize, which is why the amendment was adopted. Maybe it wasn't good, I'm sure she deserved a novel, but not this novel, because it's not a novel, it's just a mess for me. I understand you want to make a difference, but do it through a proper legislative process, so you can get feedback from the various ministries. Maybe I was expecting the Home Secretary to respond because he's the Gestapo of the law. The Home Secretary isn't here again, is he? He heard my question, and I expected him to answer it, that he would just tell me how it was prepared for the inter-reort, what everything was prepared, whether the RIA was processed or not processed, because I know that as Members, you are free from that and you don't have to have Rio processed, that you can make an MP's proposal that doesn't have to have these formalities. But I'm saying, these are the questions I asked here, and I was expecting a well-founded answer. Instead, I got an answer from the Secretary of Defense to take a pill that I'm hysterical. But that's not hysterical when I ask. What's so hysterical about it when I want to know, and those officials are... [[Minister Černochová from the bench: You falsely accused a colleague.]] I apologized to him, Madam Secretary, through - I can actually get right at you when you're yelling at me, too. I apologized to him, and you don't have anything to do with it. I didn't say anything to you. You're the one who yelled at me to take a pill. [[Minister Černochová: After you falsely accused a colleague.]] Again, now tell me which one of us is hysterical. Now tell me! You're yelling at me, I'm not intersecting you, I'm not asking you to do anything...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u46	I will ask that the debate be conducted on a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u47	I'll get back to the subject. I see that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u48	I'll get everyone in the room on the mic, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u49	Madam Secretary, if you want to talk to me, press the button and we can have the debate. Why are you yelling at me? It's pointless. So I'm gonna go back to the law. I'd love for the Home Secretary to answer that question and tell me how prepared the amendment was when she went into an interdepartmental commentary procedure. I understand that Members may not have it, I understand, but yet something had to be done when you wanted to go with the amendment through the ordinary legislative process. Another thing, when we were talking about management, that the minister would come in with his management -- yes, let the management go under labour law, but don't let it just interfere with the state administration and the state administration stay under the service law as it is. And please return the peace of mind back to those ministries, because really those directors who are in those places and went through the career order, that is, in the course of career, and they're ten, fifteen years old, they're really people who are well-founded, and they don't know what's going to happen right now, because they're expecting to be replaced, of course, they're going to end up in that pool, like I said, for half a year in 80 percent. Then you give them, if they're there for over nine years, they'll all get a year's severance pay, and that's the cost that I just cared about how much it was going to cost. So I hope that you will answer before you take the final word, because it is such a hit here - no one will say anything to anyone and then wait for the final word when they know that no one can react anymore, because the discussion is closed. And then, of course, there's an attack where the person can't defend himself. So I'm begging you if you answer all of this. [[Member Excellent from the table: I already answered.]] You didn't answer my question. I am - through Madam President, the Ministry had it worked out, Mr Výborný, through Madam President. I'd like to know if the RIA was actually processed. When it went to the interreort, it had to be so worked out, that's how the laws are put there. So if it was, please show it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u50	Thank you for your performance, too. Once again, I will ask everyone to really report to the debate, who wants to discuss it, to discuss it on the microphone. I will add an apology that is extended, namely that it extends its apology to Vice-President Kovářová and Mr Liška for today's meeting up to 16 hours for working reasons. We can proceed to Mr Jan Hrnčíř's contribution and then prepare Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u51	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on this government bill or amendment to the civil service. I really consider this a step towards further politicalization of the state service, although the current government coalition has called for its depoliticalization in the past. Expanding the range of possible applicants for public service posts is certainly a step in the right direction, but I cannot agree that professional practice should be counted since the completed required education, plus it has been added up all the time. If our aim is to increase the expertise of civil service workers, it is essential that this professional practice is as timely as possible. The practice completed, for example, 20 years ago, when a candidate has not worked in the field since then, can certainly not balance the practice in the last five years, because things have, of course, changed significantly since then. The proposal also introduces a five-year term of office for certain civil service functions. For the continuity and stability of the state service, the possibility of exchanging virtually the entire management structure or the whole section every five years, according to the party jurisdiction of the current minister, does not serve as practically this proposal allows. Although existing workers will be able to apply repeatedly for tenders and apply for office, it is true that some executives currently appointed will be in office for five years and some for an indefinite period. This will also mean, in practice, that a worker who does not defend his post in tenders will remain in the civil service and the state will look for another location for him, up to six months, for which he will receive 80 percent of his current salary, and if he fails to find a suitable location for him, he will receive a considerable severance payment from the State. In my opinion, this unfortunate wording in this proposal will in practice only mean increasing the number of people in the civil service that the State will pay. I also find no advantage in extending the number of political deputy ministers, which in practice is actually a kind of promotion of the minister's advisors to the Deputy Minister's posts, of course with the salaries of the Deputys and other advantages such as the car, the driver and so on, which, according to the proposed amendment, will not manage the individual sections, and therefore in practice they will have basically no agenda, and therefore no responsibilities. All of this will lead to a further increase in the number of people in the civil service and to a senseless increase in the financial cost to them. In addition, the proposal amends the section's specialised deputy directors to the senior director of the sections, who, according to this proposal, will be able to represent the minister in the meeting, including in the House, which is contrary to the Constitution, specifically with Article 3 (2) of the Constitution. 38 Constitutions of the Czech Republic. That is why we support the opposition amendments, which at least address the biggest shortcomings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u52	Thank you for your speech and I see the rapporteur reporting with priority rights. Isn't that right? Yes. Room for your reaction, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u53	Thank you. Madam President, given what has yet to be said here today, and it is only the last one applied for, it has also been said that a large government amendment to the Civil Service Act is being prepared. I believe that this small amendment could be incorporated into this great bill and there is no need to adopt it now. That's why I'm making a motion to dismiss this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u54	Yes, I'm registering the proposal. I will now ask Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u55	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I've actually done the same thing at first reading, but I'd like to say one thing. I got on the edge, it's similar, what you're doing now. Some of my colleagues have begun to turn the heads of the union and the heads of the department. And I didn't do it. I didn't even care who the voters were, why they were there, but what they had in mind, what they wanted to do, how they wanted to do the job, and I really didn't want to tell anyone that it would be better if we broke up, you didn't fill my political fantasies, because I wanted to do it right and right. And then I also experienced from some of the other colleagues who are sitting here with us today and were senators, that they were trying to manipulate my officers. And I was trying to protect these people, and I said that as long as I'm on the edge, the law will follow and there will be no manipulation with officials. If your fantasies were like mine and you wanted it so honestly, you don't need anything like that. Nothing! Because it's just that expertise is always above everything, over any policy, over everything else. I didn't care. I wanted them to understand that I would fight for them, that we would obey the law, and that nothing like this would happen to me. And believe me, they appreciated it. And I'm not a simple boss or a good boss, but they understand that maybe that's the biggest certainty they've ever met, and that's a fair boss who doesn't look at it politically, but only professionally. And then I want to tell you a story that happened to me here. The deputy professor could not, and no one else was at hand, but the deputy politician. So, of course, they prepared paper for him, equipped him with materials, and the political deputy set off for the meeting. Everything was okay until he ran out of text on the paper. And then there was this awkward silence where we looked at each other. And since he was an ex-colleague, I felt sorry for him. I could have made him completely impossible, but I felt sorry for him. And this is what you're preparing for these people. I understand that some people want to go there, that they need money, I can understand all that. But believe me, someday this money will become bitter to them, and one day they'll run out of paper, and everyone will understand that the wrong person isn't sitting there, but the expert isn't sitting there. I don't want to judge their human side, I just want to evaluate their professional side. And if we have political deputies because of those places, it's really wrong. It's wrong for you, not for us, for you. The day will come and these people will realize it. And you're still looking for money and you want to save money, so start here, because the worst part is when someone's preaching water and drinking wine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u56	Thank you for your contribution, Madame. Mr Jan Berki is now signed in and subsequently Mrs Peštová from the post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u57	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, only three such quick reflections. One - it's actually great that you're interested in what the clerk has in his head. I don't quite see the reason but why not formally ask him about it. There are a lot of other professions that have to defend their activities after six years, after five years and so on. I don't see a whole comparison here, why it would have to be any different here. The second issue concerns selection committees. I still feel like we're actually being presented as if the selection committee was stupid, as if she couldn't judge some parameters, as if she couldn't look at the different contexts of practice, what that person did. And the third thing is, through you, Madam Vice-President, to my colleague Peštová. The way you're running your career, and I know it's not, but basically, it looks like the only credit is how long this guy's gonna last at the Ministry. And I believe that it is not exactly a criterion that should lead us to whether or not this person is supposed to proceed, but to how capable he is, and that I am getting back to the selection process. Again, I see no reason why, if the same principle must be passed on to another profession, why it could not be done in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will read two factual points before the priority right with which the President of the House of Deputies reports, namely Mrs Berenika Peštová and subsequently Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u59	I would like to see Mr Berki, through Madam President. I don't know if you worked at the Ministry. I don't think you've ever been to the ministry, or to the state administration, which is why you talk about her so flamingly. But the career order is just there and it's there. Every year, an evaluation of the person is made on the basis of, of course, a service law that has come into effect, so you evaluate the subordinates. And it's not about me evaluating the subordinate, the lowest, but my direct subordinate, so that's where the official's assessment is. Of course, you can come to the conclusion that the clerk did not fulfill what he was about to accomplish. It's a model that's taken over from the private sphere, and it got into the state administration by making an amendment to the Service Act. I had to fill something like this out when I was working in the private sector, and I also rated my subordinates, so it got there. So it's really important for those officials to have a career order, because they're getting in there with some kind of vision that they're going somewhere. Of course, that's why there are those evaluations that are annual. They may have reduced personal evaluations, or you may give them personal evaluations, or you may raise their personal evaluations. Of course, if that civil servant makes a mistake, or does something in a year that he shouldn't do, and he's in conflict with the administrative order, then you can start the proceedings with him and so on. But these are the formalities that, of course, are there, and that's what's going to be reflected in the evaluation. My point is - and what I was saying - that the choice-driven ones were two-way, and when the service law was adopted at the time, it was very much taken care of to be two-way, so that the officials would be able to take advantage of... [[Your time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u60	Your time is up, it's real. And now I ask the rapporteur with her application for a factual comment, so two minutes again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I also have to comment on the speaker, Mr Berki. You know, nobody here said any selection committee was stupid. This was declared to have a political assignment. It is true that there are more than one term in office. But it's always only for the highest functions, not for a few degrees of steering. How many levels of steering? You want all the levels of control? In addition to the heads of departments, everyone will be competing, which means, not just the highest levels of proceedings. That is the problem posed by this bill. And how long does one last at the Ministry? There's no qualification - it's not. But I'll say from my line of work. For example, when individually imported vehicles and the like, or in the manufacture of vehicles, their parameters must be approved. It's all done at the Ministry, it's really done by people who understand technical parameters, they're experts. Well, I'm sorry, that's where the length of practice really matters. You keep imagining that it's all about what we have to say here. No, there are large parts of them that perform pure government, they have a law, they go by law, they decide in various criminal proceedings, administrative proceedings. This practice here is very important. And the problem is that this bill also interferes with this clean performance of the state administration by this would-be and political recompetitiveness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u62	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Berki is still applying for action. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u63	I'm not sure if I'm the one who's flaming talking here, but only if we're having a bad time, if I'm being vague, I'm sorry. But I said or thought I said that the time spent at the ministry was not the only criterion. To Mrs Peštová, through the Vice-President: I also said that I was aware that the career order was not only about that, but from your performance it may have seemed that the length spent was the main thing. Likewise to Mrs Ožanová, through the Vice-President: once again I did not say that the length of practice is not an important element in the selection procedure, but is not the only one. The fact that a person has been somewhere for some time does not necessarily mean that he has not stunted his approach. And, yes, I'm not from the government, I'm an academic worker, and we have fixed-term contracts repeatedly, because we have to prove that we are still doing something well in our work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u64	Thank you for keeping the time and another factual Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, your space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u65	Well, I'd like to finish. Of course, when I said the career order, that's one of the motivations of people. That's what I said, so I said it so you all realize that it's really not easy to keep these people there when there was a difference between the government and the private sector, when the private sector, as part of how these people work, starts dragging these people from the government into the private sector. This has happened to me several times, and it is quite logical, because once you find out that you have - now I will give an example - an excellent person on IPPC, it is quite logical that the private sector is trying to overpay you to get him to it, because he is a person who controls European law, he is a person who transposes European law into Czech legislation, he is a person who is practically able to move in it, he can find the right way and these people are terribly desirable. And really, believe me, at the moment, that person must have that history. The history is that he remembers. He remembers how the law gradually changed. And that's what I'm telling you. I didn't say career order, that's motivation for the person, but they have to know the history because you need someone to tell you: Yes, in 2012 there was an amendment - an example - a water law that consisted in that and in that, at the time in the interreort there was a great roar about that and that. And these are the people who implement the European directive into Czech law and know and know. Yes, then of course there are others, and that's not just one person, there are more people who are specialists in the administrative order. [[Your time.]] It's not easy to learn the rules today either. [[Your time, Madame.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u66	And once again, it has aroused a desire for a reaction, namely, Mr Jan Berki. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u67	For the last time and for a short time, I promise. I firmly hope - now I will show myself as an idealist - that it never depends on one person, that by leaving one person, the institution does not lose that memory, because I would consider that a rather bad situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u68	Thank you. Once again, Mrs Berenika Peštová, again with a factual view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u69	Then I applied properly. But yes, it doesn't matter to one person, you're right, but if you put that person in the executive position, that means you put him on the head of the department, on the principal, that's what matters. And if he's not the right person, there's a situation where people are fluctuating, and those people are starting to leave. The same case was when the Ministry gradually occupied in 2014, and when you remember, the Ministry of the Environment was an outsider. It was an outsider, and I think it's gone somewhere else in that time, and that's only because it's stabilized. That's where the destabilization took place - just because these people ran away. And I'm not gonna remember when someone always came from those ruling people who had to leave everything - even half of the ministry got beat up all of a sudden. But I'm saying this can't happen again. Once that happens, the destabilization of the ministries will happen again. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u70	Thank you. One more factual point, namely the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u71	Thank you. Please, I also remember my official practice when our sectoral ministry issued a new phone book for the ORP every three months because there were constant changes. There were constant changes in leadership, constant changes in methodological guidelines that were even issued in violation of the law. I believe that such changes are not very positive. [[15.20 hours]] And by experiencing these significant changes, when the new experts came there... Please, it's always been for the worse when a colleague came in, and I don't remember her name, which she didn't understand at all, and really all the methodology was against the law and forced the municipalities to work accordingly. But she came from the outside, and she was supposed to be a really capable lady. Please, no, it doesn't mean who's new is good. Even those who have been there for a long time are good. It's very individual. And what we're presuming here is that just checking and exchanging will lead to an improvement in the situation. No, sometimes stability is essential.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u72	Thank you, and that was the last point in fact. Mrs Berenika Peštová is now registered from place to general debate, and then I have one priority right here, Mrs Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u73	I did not mention anything in my speech, but I did wonder about one more thing - perhaps the translator, sorry, Mr. Výborný, will answer that. When I take the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure state who can submit legislation in the Chamber of Deputies. That means either he's a minister or a minister who delegates to another... [[He's turning to the news desk.]] Excuse me? [[Mr Excellent's reaction off the microphone.]] Yes, but it's also in the Rules of Procedure. And now, of course, there is a reference to the fact that it can be presented - and it is considered - that it should be the competent deputy in general, so the deputy professor. Now, actually, it's kind of like professional unprofessional, political non-political. Will it be the chief directors, or will it be the deputy directors who will submit for the minister if he can't? Because that would require a change in the Rules of Procedure, because at the moment it was set up so that it could either be a minister or a delegated other minister, or a factually competent deputy. Well, that was customary, at least eight years ago, that's how I felt about being a minister as an expert deputy, and I actually had to respond immediately to individual questions from Members in the various committees. And now my point is, if you're gonna change it, because logically, it should be the CEOs, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u74	Thank you, and so far the last application for a general debate with priority rights, President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u75	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I wanted to ask Mr Berki, through your, Madam Vice-President, about his profession, and he said so himself, so I have no further questions, because we clearly cannot discuss the fact that he experienced a tender or that he was needed in the selection committee, I think, directly in the state administration. It doesn't matter, it was just a note to start with, I don't want to talk about it. I remember - because I am no longer a junior - as a member of the Legislative Council of the Government - I was telling the Vice-President of the Výborný - a member of the Financial Administration Commission, but then an ad hoc extended commission was created across those committees, as we discussed in the Civil Service Act. And I remember that this is exactly what we were talking about - at which stage it is still a state administration and at which stage it is a policy. And the designs were falling. There were also suggestions that the Deputys should be the political level, and so experts spoke there - I don't remember all the names anymore, I don't want to touch anyone, forget anyone, but they were people with huge erudition, with huge experience - and the debate was mostly professional. Then, of course, it shifted to some political level, and it turned out to be how it turned out, which means that the Civil Service Act has turned them into state officials. And there's a chance to have two political deputies. I don't want to blame here right now for not having any political deputy, and then I'm an ex-colleague co-worker who couldn't continue to serve as a public servant because of her age, she talked me into helping because she was an expert, former CEO of the Labor Office, an expert in the social field. I needed it so I could argue with you here, too, the KDU MP over there, that we were always dealing with something about social services, that's coming again. [[He's turning right.]] It's gonna come again, but I'm not gonna mix it up here right now. So I needed people to help me, or I didn't need them. I didn't need a counselor, but whatever, I don't want to blame you either. I was really leaning on the professional apparatus. I remember when I became Minister of Finance, so at the time we made a change in the systemization system - yes, I can already see my colleague Berenika Peštová hissing at me here, through you, Madam Vice-President, hissing at me that I said it wrong, and so I am correcting myself. And that's when I decided -- and I had the advantage of being a deputy for over two years, a tax and customs assistant, I knew the resort in confidence, I came from the resort, and I was actually right inside, so I knew exactly what I wanted -- I knew I didn't want two sections that seemed unnecessary to me, I merged them, and so one deputy went out of the bike. That's just how I thought it was appropriate, and to this day, I think it was a good thing. And here I have listened to a few of your accusations in the former Chamber of Deputies that it was certainly political, and I certainly am... I didn't even know until then that the colleague who walked out of the bike and went to the pool, the well-paid pool, there's just really a luxury treatment that he was basically a member of KDU. I didn't know until then. Really, believe it or not, I didn't know it, I never cared about these things. I was really interested in work, expertise and these things. It is not a question at all - Mr Berek, through the Vice-President, and possibly others who have responded - it is not a question of some time, some sitting down. Those people - and I've spent most of my professional life - aside from the fact that they're mostly hearts, these people have to go through a lot of professional growth to move to a place, of course, it depends on the particular place. And it's not just about some practice. It's about knowledge, education, erudition, sometimes even publishing, about the academic background in which you work. And that's what it takes -- I remember when I applied for the tender, there were five of us at the time, the Deputy Minister of Taxation and Customs, and there were three categories of services prescribed there. I met two fields of service, I think it was legislation, taxes - maybe I'm saying it inaccurately - and then I didn't meet my finances yet and I had to do it before the committee - those commissions consisted of experts from different areas - I just had to take a test until some time and normally prepare for it, for the exam. And it wasn't - and you know, I wasn't afraid I wouldn't do it, of course I had to add some more knowledge, but I didn't want to embarrass myself - I didn't want to embarrass myself in front of the expert committee that I was gonna pull something off my heels. So it's definitely about the erudition, and it's not just about the Deputys. It's just that these people are doing highly professional work, doing it at a high level. Of course, keeping the experts - someone before me - such as IT, such as - I will talk to the knowledge of the finance department - such as people who run international arbitration, lawyers like top macro-economics, for which business or banking have been tearing their hands off. Keeping them there often means that - I remember that I have often been in my practice in the state sphere - not only about the Ministry, my practice took place in other posts - so I often also persuaded some colleagues to sign up for the competition, just because they were great, and that if they were chosen and passed - and I didn't doubt it because they were experts, but maybe they didn't want to be in the lead position, because working with people, that's, who you've been through it, you know, it's one of the most complex things that you have to be able to do, and also control - so sometimes it's also because there's an expert and there's a person who you might even pay, because when it's in that particular place, you can pay it. [[15.30 hours]] And one more comment, my colleague Berenika Peštová said it. She was talking about the Deputys that we understand - so we don't understand the unlimited numbers. I don't understand how the minister should decide how many will be there, so someone will have ten, someone will have five, okay. It's gonna be some army that comes with him and leaves with him. Army without troops, generals without troops? They're not gonna have a section behind them like the Deputys are doing today. They're gonna have the chauffeur, the car, the secretary, but they're gonna be leaning on the chief executives to run the specific section anyway. And I remember when the Government's Legislative Council, when we were discussing various laws, came - even when they were political deputys, because I remember a lot - so I remember that the political deputy came and there was always an army of senior directors or even lower officials with him, because they were carrying and bringing the expertise. And in that expertise, you have to work today and every day. Whoever you're doing some professional work, you know it's never-ending work, and that if you stick around somewhere, it's actually just empty straw punching, and the expertise isn't there. Again: we agree - and I said it this morning to the President of the Excellent, by your means, I will say it again, Madam Vice-President - that we agree on one thing, that the Civil Service Act needs an amendment. That's for sure. I was also pissed off at things there, bothered and unsolvable, but I think that the amendment was to be passed through a proper legislative process, it was to be passed through the Legislative Council of the Government, as was the former, where we were pushed by the imminent sanctions of the European Union. I don't think, unlike President Výborný, it's a small novel. It would be small if we were talking about the Deputys, but we're actually doing a re-compete here. And, you know, last sentence, they're watching us, the officials. They're watching very closely. I get a number of different emails and different messages. They're watching us. The last sentence: One of the important benefits of the Service Act and the State Service, and that is also abroad, is its stability - that you simply go through some process, you work it out, you go through competitions, you go through some assessments, the systems are there, but let's talk about their improvements - I'm not saying they're perfect - but then you give these people some kind of tenure. And that's where you're definitely crashing, and that's where I see the biggest risks, and I see and I'm worried, and I say that as a former civil servant, very concerned about politicizing the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u76	Thank you. And this was... Okay, one more application in the general debate. Please, Mr. Jan Berki.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u77	I'm sorry to break my promise so soon, but this is really the last time. I'm actually really glad to hear what I've been saying all along from both Mrs. Ožanová and Mrs. Schillerová. It is individual, it is about other criteria, not only the length of the stay in which place, but at the same time I was a little sorry that it looked like it now - but I hope you didn't mean it, I am now turning to President Schillerová, through Madam Vice-President - that only officials could comment on this. I'm thinking right now... When you asked me if I passed or didn't pass any selection procedure, if I was at one, I was on the selection committee that was selecting the secretary on the city, for example, even if it wasn't the government, I'm aware of that. But I just think that even looking from the outside to the system is really important. It's some kind of feedback. And at the same time, what you said last, the very tenure that can be put at the same time, so it can be a big risk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u78	Thank you and Mrs Berenika Peštová is still registered. I'll make sure, do you want the facts or the proper ones? In fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u79	I would like to see Mr Berki, through Madam President. Well, it's clear to me now, because in your nature, you were in self-government, but that's probably why you were attacking the career order. Okay, so why aren't we talking about the evaluation criteria? So why doesn't the amendment solve, if we have a problem with the selection process and we want to leave the two-way, why do we have unicycle? So let's talk about some evaluation criteria, which then, if this civil servant is to be evaluated every year, well, then the evaluation criteria will be set otherwise, I don't have a problem with that. But as you - the last sentence, it got me, through Madam President - when you said it could be abused, but it could also be abused on the other hand. If you have a person to compete with and the Secretary of State comes to him and says, "Six months from now, my friend, you're supposed to be competing, you should decide what you're supposed to decide." In private. It's double-edged! It's double-edged. As you said, it can be abused in one direction, it can be abused in another direction, because it will realize that it does not have the tenure right now, and it will be pushed somewhere where it does not want to be pushed. And I've come across it, too. I can tell you, I've also met it, and most of it was the regions that came and begged. And I've already said that here once, "Let's get on with it" because politicians were interfering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u80	Thank you, and it has caused one more factual, namely, Mr Róbert Teleky's application, but I do not see him in the hall. It is registered with Mr Róbert Teleky. [[He's not present.]] So now from the point of view, also with the facts, Mr. Ondřej Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u81	Thank you for the floor. There's only one thing I care about. I'm asking the question to President Schillerová. Who was the KDU-ČSL member, the Deputy Finance Minister who was leaving? Can you say a name? [[Member Schiller: Mr Racing.]] As far as I know, Mr. Závodský has never been a member of KDU-ČSL, has been nominated as an expert for KDU-ČSL. So an expert for KDU-ČSL, he was considered a real expert, a lawyer who fought against gambling, was removed from the Ministry of Finance because he was allegedly considered a member of the KDU-ČSL. A true expert who has done a great deal of work in this country in the fight against gambling. Just let everyone make a picture of themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u82	Thank you, and this factual one has, of course, raised another request for a speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u83	Mr. Benešík, this is exactly how the demagogy, through Madam Vice-President, went through the past period. I don't know if he was a member of KDU. I got the information here in plenary. You guys blamed me for doing a systemization with the knowledge of the problem. He could have stayed there, he could have done another job, but those two sections were just meaningless. You've been blaming me for, I don't know, a month when we were discussing whether or not he was here. I don't know. I never found out. I got the information here because you responded to it then. I really - for me it's history for a hundred - but if it wasn't, I take it back. I heard from you that he was supposed to be leaving because he was behind KDU-ČSL. Nonsense. Nonsense!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u84	Thank you and Mr. Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u85	Mr. Deputy Závodský was nominated KDU-ČSL as an expert. As an expert he did an excellent job at the Ministry of Finance and after KDU-ČSL ended up in the government, he was leaving the Ministry of Finance. That's the conclusion. He was an expert deputy with undisputed erudition and undisputed results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u86	Thank you and another request for a factual one, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u87	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. That's what the former secretary said. Systemization was performed, therefore the number decreased. This means that one section was created from two sections, so each section is managed by one technical deputy. Then, of course, something went wrong, but the same thing happens now, what I said here again. I've had a section, I've had six directors under me, and today, my work as an expert deputy is being done by three professional deputys. So you're going on a completely different path. Someone's gone down a narrowing path, you're going down a expansion path.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u88	And one more de facto in this wave of reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u89	Thank you for the floor, very briefly indeed. Let's just not play games here. The Ministry's leadership is political, and it should always be political, as it is in the leadership of the community, as it is in the leadership of the region. And let's not just try to apologize here for someone making their political decisions as an expert. It's just not like that. And this proposal, although it may have a lot of reservations - and I understand the reservations, and I take a lot of them as relevant - so they should still lead us to transparently and not play the part of being one expert and the other politically. Even a politician can be an expert and most of them can be. After all, former political and/or so-called expert deputy for the ANO movement, who have turned into very brilliant politicians overnight in the elections, are to the greatest extent here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u90	Thank you. However, we have found ourselves in the middle, it seems, of a blunder of fact. Mrs Berenika Peštová continued... would you like to be logged in? You're downloading? You do. You are the first in line, then Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, Mr Robert králíček, will be prepared and it will continue. Please, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u91	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for that, I don't know if I'll pay your respects. I wasn't a political expert, I think I was an expert deputy. [[With laughter.]] I think that we have already said my candle here, and it was Mr Michálek, through Madam President, who is not here, who has told me my political career, a smaller political career, because I have been sitting in opposition in Most all the time, and now I have just gotten... But for eight years I've been coming here, eight years I've been coming here, and I think I've been brilliantly answering all of your questions, and I've been expertly answering them. So thank you for making me an expert politician or a good politician. I don't think I'm good enough, that wouldn't be the hissing behind me. But thank you, thank you for the compliment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u92	Thank you. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová is also registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u93	Thank you, Madam President. I confess that I have already withdrawn one of the facts, but nevertheless the last words of my esteemed colleague Mr Benešík, by your means, which I otherwise appreciate, have raised me a little, and maybe I would ask which ministry I was working on. I don't think so. Maybe he meant another colleague, but please, like it was really useless. I think the plane of someone having some different work experience, but saying something like that was really pointless. And I think we can deal with this, not as a former colleague of the Volný, but we can have a very cunning conversation about it. And I don't think there's any need for a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u94	Thank you, however, the debate here in the hall takes place on a microphone. And I'll ask those who want to speak outside the microphone to go outside the O.R. And to the microphone, Mr Robert králíček can go with another factual one. Please, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u95	Madam Vice-President, I would like that, Dear Government or Minister, Colleagues, Colleagues. I can't be unresponsive to my colleague Benešík. I actually want to thank him for reviving the debate and for his honesty. Minister Rakušan here has his mouth full of deagrofertization, and now we've figured out what you're up to. You're talking about five-colonization in our ministries. Well, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u96	Mr Milan Brázdil and then Mr Ondřej Benešík continue to report. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u97	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond to - Ondra, to you, through Madam President. We're both from Moravia, and we're proud of it. And here they say, "Kids, damn it! And it goes on. I beg you - and now don't take me for a kid, just like that: Kids, if we do this and go on, this republic will go to hell. Don't be mad at me, we're not helping people by doing politics. The less politics there is, and the more factual things there will be, the better this will be, Ondro. [[Fun and laughter from YES.]] Tomorrow, Ondra, through tomorrow, we have this apolitical thing on the table, and yet it's just gonna turn into a potato. Yes, sometimes it's necessary. I can't do it, I don't want to do it, and it makes me sick. But let's just think, we're people, we're normal, we have our profession, and we want to do it for people, not because we're playing like we're on the sand - they call it a monster. We can say everything here, none of it is, or not say anything, and most importantly vote and make something of it. Let's go that way. You're yelling at me, colleague... [[He's turning to the President of the Excellent.]] I don't know why, what I did to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u98	Please, I beg you, I beg you, through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u99	Through, I mean. I don't know why Mr. Volný is yelling at me like a horse. [[He's showing off on the microphone.]] I don't know why. [[A round of applause and entertainment, yes.]] [[Vice-President Richter: Please very...]] If this is a fact like... Did I say something wrong? If I said something wrong, I'm sorry you misunderstood me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u100	I very much appeal to respect the dignity of this hall. And I will ask Mr. Ondřej Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u101	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm thinking exactly the same thing, just maybe the way to do it is a little different. Just what I wanted to say is that the Minister has the right - and should have the right - to choose his closest team at his discretion. If the minister is self-righteous - and I believe that the ministers are - then he will choose him very professionally, by far not only politically. And I also wanted to say that being a politician doesn't mean that he's not an expert either. But unfortunately, I've been hearing over the past nine years that there are some experts here who know everything, know everything, are neutral, and do everything right. And then there are politicians who just do everything wrong and want to steal. It's just not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u102	Thank you. And Mrs Jana Hanzlíková is registered with the final facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u103	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I have to respond to the fact that a politician can be an expert. Yes, of course, I admit it, it can, but for me it's important not to say, I'm the expert, but somehow to prove it. And the way that practice works now is that the assistant professor actually proves it, and he has to do it in a lot of ways. Not only as our Prime Minister said, with official exams, because he has to have exams for all fields, he has to go through a selection procedure, but mostly the Deputy Director is fully responsible for a number of things, from human resources to all subsidies, everything about his gesture. The Political Deputy is not responsible for anything, he is not driving anybody, and therefore bears no responsibility for a section he does not have. And you're actually expanding to an unlimited number of these Deputys, those who don't have the responsibility and control no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u104	Thank you, and therefore, because I no longer see any application, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word? Please, Mr. Vice-Presidents, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u105	Madam Vice-President, Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to sum up the general debate in the second reading of the amendment to the Service Act. I wanted to thank you for the moments of emotional debate. True, the end gave it a little bit of a dick, maybe both sides. But I think that what's going on here right now, that trip to the history of the Treasury, the other departments and the history of some of us, of you colleagues, actually showed exactly the reason why this brief amendment here - and now I don't want to have that debate that's brief, short, comprehensive and long - let's really leave it to that, there can be different opinions. I respect that, it is legitimate, but it has shown clearly the reason why it is important to make a clear cut and to establish the political responsibility and responsibility of a professional which will also be enshrined in the plane of the public service. [[15.50 hours]] I have a few notes here, so let me respond to some of the answers, because questions have been raised here, so I don't want to leave them unanswered. Maybe I'll start from the back. Now, in the last few minutes, there's been such an atmosphere that, on the one hand, we have experts and, on the other hand, politics, and I think that's really something that goes against us. I think that we all or most of us have some degree of expertise in the field from which we came - someone came here as a doctor, mayor, teacher, academic worker, farmer, and yet we are experts in these matters. Why are we gonna put these things against each other and create some kind of caste on dirty politicians and experts who are gonna save it all? That is not what I think is in principle - now I also look away from the amendment to the Service Act - that is not a reasonable approach. Now I'd like to go back a little bit to that history. As regards the preparation of this amendment to the Service Act, a genuine factual debate on the material intention of what this first amendment to the Service Act should contain was held at the level of representatives of the MPs, coalition MPs and then in cooperation with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. At the end of these negotiations, it was a key decision whether to go the way of the government's draft or the draft of Parliament, and since we decided to go the way of the draft of Parliament, then of course this proposal does not have to contain some elements, it does not go to the Government's Legislative Council, and although I do not know that I am not a member of the government, I cannot be certain here that one of our own willingness and will may have worked out the RIA, so I believe that this was not the case because, indeed, at the end of the debate, the political debates at the level of the representatives of coalition club members were set out to do so by a parliamentary proposal. I don't know about any RIA being processed. For Mrs Peštová, through the Vice-President: I spoke about these costs before circulation. They are listed in the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. There was also a factual inquiry to represent at the meetings of the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies or Commissions, or commissions and committees in the Senate. So yes, indeed, in § 9 para. 8 We are talking about the fact that the senior directors, that is, the last level that will be under the civil service at ministerial level, will be possible for the head of the section to take part in the position of member of the government's meeting and, if necessary, represent the minister here on the floor of the House and the Senate. And now the important thing, at the end of it, is a sip - it is considered to be the deputy of a member of the government. I don't want to start this debate here right now and discuss what this sentence or this supplement means, but it's a reaction to really being in line with the Constitution. That's the answer. Then it was said repeatedly that the whole process would lead to politicization. No, it's exactly the opposite, it will lead to depoliticization of the state administration. It is not that the approval of this novel will bring about a night of long knives. That overcompete doesn't mean that those who are in those positions that are superior today will automatically end. Of course, they will be able to sign up for the tender and I am convinced that even most of them will defend their positions. On the contrary, it is an element that is highly incentive. This term of office shall be fixed as five years. Yes, I understand that someone here can make arguments that we're getting rid of the leaders, the officials in the positions of the superiors, the tenure. For them, of course, this is not a positive message, it is nothing pleasant. Yes, we get rid of the tenure, but I believe that it has a more positive effect, because they too will be able to apply repeatedly, of course, after five years, to defend their position, to defend their place, to update their concept and vision with which they have approached this very place or position, and it can be mutually beneficial. When it comes to the selection of deputy ministers, I stress that there will be no political or professional deputy representatives, they will simply be deputy ministers of a member of the government. Because they're out of service law, of course they're not in the novel. We're just saying here all the time that they're going to be political deputies. It will be a deputy member of the government, and I assume that any minister who bears a personal responsibility primarily to the Prime Minister, but also to the Chamber of Deputies, because the government answers to this House, is sufficiently judgmental to know who it appoints to be his closest politically responsible team. So I beg you, let us leave to our government, our ministers, how erudite members of their team choose. I don't even think that it's necessarily that every deputy in these positions has to end. Maybe some remain in the position of deputy ministers, others become senior directors of the sections, as the law ultimately states, but I really don't think it's an attack on any expertise or eruditions of the entire team or entire teams led by individual ministries. So many answers and responses to what was said here. Thanks again for the debate. And to conclude, I think it fulfilled the purpose of second reading. Amendments have been tabled here, and we will also debate them at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and at third reading we will stand up to individual amendments on the basis of some political agreement. As I've already announced, there are some things where I think we're gonna find some common language with the opposition. I thank you, and now the detailed debate can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u106	Thank you. The rapporteur will speak with the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u107	Thank you. Madam President, 14 amendments were made during the debate. I do not know how many colleagues or colleagues will sign up to, but I believe, given the names on the board, that one amendment is likely to be loaded. So much for second reading. I recommend that the legislators really address the question of constitutionality that senior directors of the sections could really represent a member of the government, as the Constitution means that they would become deputy ministers for a while. I recommend that we submit this to a certain examination as to whether it is in accordance with the Constitution. This is all for me as rapporteur for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u108	Thank you for your report. Now, since we do not have any currently-voted proposals, I am opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. We'll proceed with the applications. Mr Jan Jakob is the first to be included in the detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the amendment that I have uploaded into the system as House Document No. 1031. It concerns the modification of the main health care professional. I have explained in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u110	Thank you, too. Subsequently, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u111	Thank you, Madam President. I have given all the proposals that I am now going to sign up for in detail in the general debate, so I am now signing up for Amendments 941, 943, 944, 1021, 1022, 1023 and 1024.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u112	Thank you. Next, Mrs Renata Oulehlová, Mrs Taťána Malá will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u113	Hello again. I am signing up for Amendments 1035 and 1036. I spoke in detail about both of them in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u114	Thank you, too. Mrs Taťána Malá may speak, then Mr Ivan Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u115	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to sign up for amendments 945, 946 and 1040, which I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u116	Thank you. So far, with the last application, Mr Ivan Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to sign up for an amendment that has been uploaded into the system under number 1026. It's a proposal that's very simple. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. points 52 and 53 are deleted; the The point is that it is actually necessary to transpose into the Czech legal system Directive 2019/1152 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union and Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between the working and private life of parents and carers and repealing Council Directive 2010/18/EU. These directives will be transposed by a government bill, the contents of which will be amendments to all laws governing employment conditions, i.e. an amendment to the Civil Service Act. In order to avoid an undesirable coincidence in the legislative process of two draft laws governing the same area, the current draft amendment to the Civil Service Act, that is to say, the issue of aligning the family and personal lives of civil servants with the performance of the public service and the performance of the public service from another place, including the fact that this issue will be regulated more comprehensively by the government bill. For example, with regard to the performance of the service from another place, the adjustment will be extended to include issues relating to the management and control of the performance of the service from another place and the method of reimbursement of costs. The Government's bill will be sent to the commentary proceedings shortly. It is therefore only a legislative regulation that prevents the duplication of some implementations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u118	Thank you, too. That would therefore be all applications for a detailed debate. I'm ending it. For the record, I'm gonna ask if there's an interest in the final word? [[No, it's not. Newsletter: No.]] She's not, she's not with the rapporteur. So since there have now been no other voting proposals, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, both of you, who accompanied us through this second reading. I'm closing this point. Now with priority rights, President Marek is reporting Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u119	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would ask - on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' Clubs - that we now vote in a procedural manner on the elimination of paragraph 14 of this 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, House Press 165, the amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, and this 31st meeting is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-008-013.u120	Thank you. I've already gotten the gong, and I've called in co-workers and co-workers from the lobby. I heard the application for a check-out, so I'm gonna have you all checked out. Please log in with your registration cards. We will therefore now vote on the proposal to remove the remaining point. The O.R. is already filling up. I'll wait for the last one. I repeat, a motion has been made to eliminate the remaining meeting points. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of such an elimination? Who's against it? In voting number 27, 129 Members and Members were enrolled, for 128, against 1. So the rest of the point has been eliminated. We have therefore exhausted the approved agenda of our meeting and I can end this 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Please note that we will meet tomorrow at 9 a.m. at the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I wish you a quiet afternoon. Goodbye.
